Sixty years ago at San Francisco, the United Nations Charter was adopted. It was an event that set the path for the future of nations and peoples. It was an event at which intelligence was resolutely dedicated to peace and justice, and willpower was used for the common interest. With the adoption of the outcome document by the High-level Plenary Meeting, a process of 15 paramount importance has been set in motion, one in which you, Sir, can count on the full support of the delegation of Spain. I wish to pay tribute to the sustained effort of your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, and to reiterate to our Secretary-General my admiration for his personal and diplomatic skills. There can be no doubt that the United Nations has taken a step forward as a result of the High-level Plenary Meeting. We have achieved progress in essential areas. Spain is satisfied with the outcome because we have stressed the importance of assisting victims of terrorism. The Alliance of Civilizations initiative has been well received. The summit recalled the need to continue assisting middle-income countries and supported the search for new sources of financing for implementation of the Action against Hunger and Poverty initiative. I would like to mention here that an initiative on United Nations reform was unanimously adopted by the Spanish Parliament on 13 September 2005, urging the Government to achieve a number of objectives that are now reflected in the outcome document of the recent High-level Meeting. We recognized in that document that development, peace and security and human rights constitute the three basic interdependent and interrelated pillars of the United Nations system and are the foundation for our collective security and well-being. In our globalized world, we can solve international problems, and deal with new challenges and risks only through concerted action based on solidarity. Among those collective actions, the fight against terrorism is an absolute priority for Spain. The General Assembly should adopt a global strategy that includes the goal of creating an international fund for victims. Spain has just signed the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, and in the Sixth Committee Spain is determined to promote the adoption of a comprehensive convention on international terrorism before the end of this sixtieth General Assembly. The summit concluded that tolerance, respect, dialogue and cooperation amongst different cultures, civilizations and peoples are essential elements for the promotion of international peace and security. This is precisely the conviction that inspired the President of the Government of Spain to propose the Alliance of Civilizations initiative at the previous General Assembly. The Secretary-General's High-level Group to guide the initiative will hold its first meeting in my country this autumn. This initiative, co-sponsored by the President of the Government of Spain and the Prime Minister of Turkey, is more necessary today than ever. It is imperative to put an end to the negative drift in mutual perceptions that is being fomented and used by extremist groups. It is also urgent to find innovative and additional sources of financing for development. For that reason, Spain, along with five other countries, is promoting the Action against Hunger and Poverty initiative with the aim of identifying innovative and additional sources of financing for development. In this regard, Spain actively participates in the cancellation of debt to benefit the heavily indebted poor countries and is preparing a plan to swap debt for public investment in key human development areas in Latin America. Let me reiterate Spain's firm commitment to peacekeeping operations, which translates into substantial contributions of our armed and security forces wherever needed, especially in the Balkans, Haiti and Afghanistan. I would like to underline the high degree of commitment and professionalism shown by Spanish peacekeeping forces and recall with pride those who have sacrificed their lives for international peace and security. The creation of a Peacebuilding Commission is another outstanding achievement of this summit. Spain, as an important contributor to the United Nations budget and to its peacekeeping operations, is ready to participate actively in the work of this commission. Since its inception this Organization has been determined to provide the international community with a binding legal framework for the protection and promotion of human rights. Spain shares this goal. We have strengthened our cooperation with the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, and we have increased our contribution to its budget. We are also pleased with the establishment of a Human Rights Council and are fully prepared to contribute actively to the work of this new council. Over the past year, important legislative developments have occurred in my country, and we have taken significant steps to promote real equality among citizens in areas such as gender violence and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. The Government has also tackled the situation of immigrant workers through the 16 implementation of a broad-ranging legalization process. We firmly support the reform process aimed at strengthening the effectiveness of the United Nations, which will ensure the concrete implementation of its resolutions. It is of little use to improve existing structures, if there is no enforcement of compliance with decisions. The United Nations must regain its credibility. We believe that the reform, especially that of the Security Council, must be the result of a broad agreement among all of us. I agree with the Secretary-General that our greatest failure has to do with non-proliferation and disarmament. For Spain, nuclear proliferation represents a serious risk for international peace and security. We are concerned about the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons, and we support the preparation of an international arms trade treaty. I cannot but mention here, once again this year, the question of Gibraltar and the need to put an end to this dispute through the implementation of the repeated mandates of the General Assembly that have urged Spain and the United Kingdom to continue their bilateral negotiations, with a view to reaching a definitive solution to the decolonization process, in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions. Spain is willing to work in a constructive spirit; this spirit is reflected in the creation of a trilateral dialogue forum, the aim of which is to produce an atmosphere of mutual trust and cooperation for the benefit and prosperity of Gibraltar and the region as a whole. Next month, Spain will host the fifteenth Ibero- American Summit in Salamanca. It will be a meeting that will constitute a turning point in the creation of a true Ibero-American forum, with the institutionalization of its secretariat and the manifestation of a stronger will to contribute to effective multilateralism. Spain pays particular attention to its relations with its neighbours in the Maghreb region. Through an active and comprehensive policy, Spain wishes to reinforce its cooperation with those countries, firmly supporting political stability, respect for human rights and those reforms that are put in place to consolidate the rule of law and economic and social development. In this regard, Spain firmly believes that the Western Sahara conflict, which has lasted for almost 30 years, requires priority attention. The international community must contribute to overcome the stalemate and offer, within the framework of the United Nations, a just and definitive political solution, in accordance with international law. To that end, Spain is developing an active diplomacy and believes that steps taken, such as the recent appointments by the Secretary-General of his Personal Envoy and of the Special Representative for the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara, will provide the opportunity to relaunch the process. In the Middle East, the disengagement from Gaza, carried out with great skill and with great effectiveness by the Israeli Government, may constitute a powerful driving force in the peace process. It is only right to congratulate the Government of Israel for its decision. I also extend my congratulations to the Palestinian National Authority for having significantly contributed to the entire operation, so that it was completed in a peaceful manner. Now that the disengagement has been satisfactorily completed, the road map must again become the central framework for the peace process. Moreover, the time has come to increase our aid to Africa and to support African countries in their efforts aimed at integration, peace and progress. The summit outcome document is a good starting point to continue working towards achieving the agreements that still elude us. We cannot allow inaction, lack of ambition or shortsightedness to prevent the successful conclusion of the task ahead. Sixty years ago the signatories of the United Nations Charter translated into an agreement a thought that was as solid as it was simple: we can either walk together towards peace, or we will never find it. A year ago, before this Assembly, the President of the Spanish Government recalled that the history of humanity does not give us many reasons to be optimistic. Let us work with imagination and commitment to turn this Organization into an expression of common will, an Organization legitimized by its effectiveness and its universal character. Let us work so that some day we will feel proud as human beings. We are the United Nations, and the people of the world expect us to act as such in the face of the challenges and opportunities afforded to us in these times of change.I am returning to the Assembly Hall after 10 years. In September 1995, I had the honour of being elected President of the General Assembly. I well know, therefore, what a difficult task it is, and I congratulate you, Mr. President, Ambassador Jan Eliasson, on your recent election. I wish you every success in discharging your lofty functions. I would also like to compliment the outgoing President, Mr. Ping, on the exceptional work that he did during the previous session. I offer my best wishes to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan. My country greatly values the excellent work that he has done so far, and the Portuguese Government wishes to express its solidarity with him in connection with the difficult times that has been through, as well as its continued support for the enormous tasks and challenges that lie ahead. We share some of the disappointment felt by the Secretary-General regarding the failure to approve many of the proposed reforms of the Organization that he set out in his excellent report, “In larger freedom”. The entire process started 10 years ago, in 1995-96, under my presidency, and I can assure the Assembly that one year later, when I left office, there were already many consensus-based solutions that could have been approved. But insufficient use was made of the 10 years that have since passed. We are left with the conviction that progress towards sound reform will be viable only if it maintains, as its reference, the objectives set out in the proposals of the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan. What is sound reform of the United Nations? In my opinion, such reform would fulfil, at least, the following five prerequisites. First, such reforms must respect and reaffirm the fundamental principles and values of the Charter. Secondly, they must create better conditions for the maintenance and re-establishment of peace, guaranteeing security and dealing with the offenders in either case. Thirdly, they must include strong measures in support of development so as to improve the living conditions of the world’s poorest countries and reduce the enormous gap that exists between the countries of the North and those of the South. Fourthly, such reforms must promote democracy, human rights and the rule of law, internationally, as well as within each State. Fifthly, they must establish a basis and the necessary conditions for a better understanding among peoples, for a dialogue among civilizations, for an understanding of cultural and religious diversity, and for a spirit of tolerance, cooperation and friendship among nations, Governments and individuals. In addition to those five prerequisites, there is still a need to consider reorganizing the Secretariat, which is an important instrument for attaining the objectives of the United Nations. Make no mistake: I have enough personal experience to be able to state that the staff of this Organization is, generally speaking, highly competent, dedicated and professional. But we must all understand that, in a large Organization such as this one, like in any other, there will always be a need for constant modernization. Last week the United Nations reform was set in motion. We must continue to work hard, year after year, phase by phase, with the energy and the spirit of compromise that is the hallmark of diplomacy and which must therefore not be absent from the “temple of diplomacy” that is the United Nations. 24 First and foremost, the tasks to be accomplished in the coming months — which have Portugal’s unreserved support — will be to do what is necessary to make the Peacebuilding Commission operational; to implement the already approved concept of the “responsibility to protect”; and to establish the new Human Rights Council. Development is an urgent task that cannot be postponed. The poorest countries call for justice, and they deserve it; the richest countries insist on a code of ethics, and they must therefore fulfil the duties that derive from it. In that regard, Portugal fully endorses the vision expressed and reaffirmed by the United Nations which accords priority to development — understood to be comprehensive development, as expressed in the Millennium Development Goals — and which is closely linked to security and the rule of law. Democracy and security constitute the sine qua non condition for effective, sustained and equitable development. In terms of official development assistance, Portugal hopes to reach the agreed target of 0.51 per cent of gross domestic product in 2010, in order to pave the way to achieving the ambitious goal of 0.7 per cent in 2015. The efforts of Portugal have been mainly — but not exclusively — directed towards the least developed countries, and sub-Saharan Africa in particular. We therefore reaffirm the need to pay active and committed attention to the special needs of Africa. In that way, we will fulfil effectively the commitments undertaken to strengthen cooperation with the New Partnership for Africa’s Development and with regional and subregional organizations. The report of the Secretary-General rightly reminds us that every country is primarily responsible for its own development, in a framework of good governance, which is a prerequisite in this context. Basically, it is a matter of implementing the eighth Millennium Goal: to create a global partnership for development, whose importance in promoting a more equitable and just world I would like to stress here. That is why I have no hesitation in stating that we must remain actively committed to the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, including strengthening action in priority areas. Our common future is at stake, and I would like to take this opportunity to announce that Portugal has decided to contribute to the United Nations Democracy Fund. For Portugal, environmental concerns are a clear priority; addressing them must promote, not detract from, development. In that domain, we will actively participate in international efforts to combat climate change, honouring our commitments and limiting greenhouse-gas emissions, so that the European Union can attain the goals agreed in the context of the Kyoto Protocol. We hope that the next Conference, to be held in Montreal, will mark the launching of a negotiating process on climate-related issues for the post-2012 period. One of the most serious threats to peace and security today is terrorism. It must be fought with resolve, within the framework of the rule of law and with respect for human rights. There can be no doubt that one of the aims of terrorists is to weaken and distort even the most elementary of the universal values adopted by States and their peoples. Because we are fighting back in self-defence, they say that our actions — theirs and ours — are morally equivalent. Portugal strongly rejects that view. There can be no ambiguity in fighting terrorism. We must be clear on this and state, quite bluntly, that all acts that aim to kill or seriously injure civilians or non-combatants are acts of terrorism. We believe that the United Nations provides a framework of reference for combating terrorism, and we therefore urge that a global convention on terrorism be adopted. Similarly, we welcome the counter- terrorism strategy drawn up by the Secretary-General, and we appeal for its effective implementation. In that context, Portugal will sign the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism during this session of the General Assembly. We must recognize that the largest cluster of threats to international peace and security today lies in the broader Middle East. Regardless of countries’ positions on the Iraq war, it is now essential to do all we can, based on the clear existing mandates of the United Nations, to see that peace, democracy and human rights triumph. That could take a number of years, as in Afghanistan. 25 Regarding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, it is important that, taking advantage of the current positive momentum, we hold serious negotiations aimed at reaching bilateral and multilateral agreements. The road map cannot be forgotten or indefinitely postponed. Just as Israel has an unquestionable right to live in peace within secure borders, the Palestinian State also has an unquestionable right to exist. Only through what is called the two-State policy can there be peace in the Middle East. As for Iran, I should like to stress and support the efforts of the European Union to avert, through negotiations, another dangerous case of nuclear proliferation. The international community as a whole and the Iranian people themselves owe a great deal to the intelligent approach of the European Union in this matter. We are, and will continue to be, united in solidarity. Negotiations must continue. Portugal is committed to strengthening cooperation among regions and civilizations in order to promote international peace and stability. Accordingly, the high-level political dialogue between Europe and Africa must be further strengthened, including through the convening of the Europe-Africa summit, towards which Portugal has been working tirelessly. I reiterate Portugal’s appeal to all interested parties to join in our effort to re-launch the Cairo process, which we believe could be instrumental in establishing that strategic partnership. I also wish to publicly place on record my country’s support for Spain’s Alliance of Civilizations initiative. The European-African dialogue is also a dialogue among civilizations, as is the Ibero-American process, to which Portugal, Spain, Andorra and the Latin American countries are committed. That process will be formalized at the Salamanca Summit in October. Over the past nine years, the dialogue among the eight States members of the Community of Portuguese- Speaking Countries — which represents 200 million people living in four continents — has been intensified, with great success. Portugal participates in the dialogue with countries from Europe, Africa, Latin America and Asia, a dialogue that it would like to see broadened as an indispensable tool for civilizations to live in peace and not be at war. I would like to conclude by reaffirming Portugal’s faith in the centrality, legitimacy and indispensable role of the United Nations. While not forgetting our setbacks, but learning from them so that they are not repeated, we should bear in mind our many successes. Timor-Leste, which is here with us today as a full Member State, is one example of a United Nations success story. In conclusion, I would like to remember the wise words of our second Secretary-General, Dag Hammarskjöld, who said: (spoke in English) “The pursuit of peace and progress cannot end in a few years in either victory or defeat. The pursuit of peace and progress, with its trials and its errors, its successes and its setbacks, can never be relaxed and never abandoned.”It is my unique pleasure to praise His Excellency Ambassador Dan Gillerman, my emissary to the United Nations, who is in the Chair at present, upon his election to the post of Vice-President at this session of the General Assembly, and to wish him much success. These are optimistic times in the Middle East. The iron wall that has defined Israel's relations with most of the Arab and Muslim world for generations, is coming down. Israel's contacts with Arab and Muslim States are growing at a rate never seen before. Countries like Pakistan and others that in the past refused to acknowledge our shared humanity, today extend their hands in friendship and recognition. Relations with key Muslim States, such as Turkey, are flourishing, while our peaceful ties with both Egypt and Jordan are constantly improving. Here in New York this week, I have had the honour of meeting with more than 10 of my colleagues from the Arab and Muslim world - a number unthinkable just two years ago. Those meetings have been friendly, as is only fitting for countries that are not in conflict - either territorially, or economically. Israel welcomes this new readiness for contact, and we encourage our neighbours to build on the foundations that we are now laying. Contacts between Israel and its Arab and Muslim neighbours are good for the region, and good for peace. We all share a common interest in building a region of tolerance and cooperation - a region where the moderates have the initiative, not the extremists, whose violence has set the agenda for so long. Indeed, those who genuinely wish to help the Palestinians and to bring them the benefits of peace and prosperity must realize that building contacts and cooperation with Israel is a crucial element in that process. Possibilities for cooperation abound. In fields as diverse as agriculture, health, the environment, transportation and electricity, the potential benefits of Middle East regional cooperation are immense. Such cooperation can bring tangible and immediate economic benefits, as Israel's improving relations with Jordan and Egypt have shown. Unfortunately, many of our ties with the Arab and Muslim world are still deep in the shadows, hidden from the public eye. Today, I call on my Arab and Muslim colleagues to bring our contacts out into the light of day, so that our peoples may understand our 8 shared desire to work with each other to bring peace and prosperity to our region. I call on the leaders of the Arab and Muslim world, to join us in speaking to our populations of peace rather than conflict, of reasons to cooperate, rather than reasons to boycott. In November of this year, I will sit alongside my Arab and Muslim colleagues at two international gatherings: the World Summit on the Information Society, in Tunisia; and the summit of the Euro- Mediterranean Partnership, in Barcelona. I call upon the international community and my Arab and Muslim counterparts to work together with us to ensure that those meetings result in concrete projects that will help reinforce our peace efforts on the ground. This is also the time for the international community to renew its investment in the future of the Middle East by reviving the multilateral track of the Middle East peace talks. Just one week ago, Israel completed the evacuation of all Israeli communities in the Gaza Strip. Entire families - many of whom had lived and tilled those lands for three generations - were called upon by their Government to leave and to begin their lives anew. Today, there are no more Israelis in Gaza. Israeli military rule is now over. Responsibility for the affairs of Gaza and its residents is now in Palestinian hands. Israel's actions have opened the door to a new future, and we invite our neighbours to walk with us together through that door. We are committed to the road map, and we wish to get back to its full implementation. To do that, we need a partner. A partner who is committed, as we are, to the peaceful resolution of our differences, and to the democratic and universal principles on which peace is founded. Israel attaches great importance to the Palestinian assumption of responsibility. In it lies the key to progress towards peace. The transfer of responsibility for Gaza provides the Palestinian side with the chance to take their fate into their own hands; an opportunity not just to say that they want to govern, but to show that they are ready and able to do so. Gaza, we hope, will serve as a model for how the Palestinian Authority can build a functioning, democratic and peaceful society. Recognizing the significance of this moment, Israel is taking great pains to ensure that Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas is given every opportunity to establish his authority. We want to promote conditions that will benefit ordinary Palestinians, without posing a security threat to Israel. Israel has expressed its strong support for international aid and assistance for the social and economic development of Gaza, and we are committed to facilitating those efforts. Constructive international engagement is crucial to the Palestinian Authority's success. The international community's priority now must be ensuring that the Palestinian Authority and its institutions can deliver the services and outcomes their people and ours expect and deserve. Economic reconstruction, of course, is not enough. The Palestinian Authority must also deliver on its commitment to end the campaign of terror against Israel. For Israel, security is an issue on which we will never compromise. We insist on the end of terror and the dismantlement of its infrastructure, for the safety of our citizens, and so that our peace efforts can succeed. Turning Gaza into a model of success requires that the Palestinian Authority act to promote and protect democracy from its enemies. Here, as with security, there is no room for discounts. Simply holding elections is no guarantee of moderation and responsible government. Two days ago in Gaza, the terrorist organization Hamas held a rally of 10,000 armed men dedicated to a holy war against Israel. Like Al-Qaida and the other organizations in the global network of terror, Hamas seeks to destroy everything that the international community and the moderates in our region seek to build: tolerance, democracy and peace. Hamas is responsible for the deliberate murder of hundreds of Israeli civilians, amongst them scores of women and children. Israel cannot and will not grant legitimacy to such an organization. We will not cooperate with its desire to participate in the forthcoming Palestinian elections. And we call on the international community to make clear its own opposition to the inclusion of such terrorists in the democratic process. If Gaza is indeed to be the positive model we all wish to see, then it is those who promote dialogue, not violence, who must be empowered. The central threat to global security and to renewed momentum towards dialogue and peace in the Middle East today is Iran and its nuclear ambitions. As the speech before this Assembly by the newly elected president of Iran so clearly demonstrated, Iran's fanatic regime remains determined to proceed with its nuclear weapons programme. Israel welcomes the efforts of the international community - in particular France, Britain and Germany, backed by the United States - to deny Iran the ability to terrorize the world with nuclear weapons. The Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency is meeting at this very moment in Vienna to discuss this urgent matter. I call on them to stop this evil regime from acquiring nuclear weapons. The security and stability of the entire globe is at stake. This is why it is essential and urgent that the Security Council take action. The international community must rally as one and use all the means at its disposal to stop Iran before it goes nuclear. We must not allow the fate of mankind to rest in the hands of the tyrants of Tehran. In January of this year, this Assembly convened in special session to commemorate the Holocaust and pay tribute to the brave soldiers and nations who freed European Jewry and the world from the calamity of that darkest nightmare. Israel commends the community of nations for standing up in unison on this anniversary in commitment to the cry 'never again'. We commend the Secretary-General's and this Assembly's recognition that Holocaust remembrance must be a universal commitment. Ultimately, it is only the determined defence of the universal values of tolerance and the sanctity of each human life that will protect us from tyranny and extremism. In this spirit, Israel calls on the General Assembly to adopt a resolution initiated by Israel and other like-minded countries commemorating the Holocaust and calling for global educational efforts to ensure that its lessons are learnt. Especially today, the day the world's greatest Nazi-hunter, Simon Wiesenthal, has passed away, we are reminded that the Holocaust is passing from human memory to history. As the generation of survivors leaves us, who will tell their story, if not us? The special session to commemorate the Holocaust is only one example, of the welcome shift in the attitude of this institution towards Israel. Our recent election as Vice-President of this Assembly is another. I wish to commend the Secretary-General for his unique contribution to this positive trend. Israel's relations with the United Nations are better today than they have ever been. Nevertheless, they are still far from what they should be. I call on all the States gathered here to examine how they too can contribute to promoting a more balanced and constructive United Nations approach to Israel. The United Nations cannot be true to its own lofty and universal principles, if it continues to waste scarce resources and serve as a forum of hostility and prejudice against one of its own. The United Nations was born of the noble vision to bring the ideals of peace, security and human rights to all peoples. Sadly, reality of the United Nations remains far removed from the United Nations ideal. Major reform is urgent and crucial. Israel joins our fellow Member States and their peoples in the desire to see the United Nations fulfil the vision of its founders; to see the United Nations serving as a force for good in meeting the many challenges of our age. Israel seeks to take its rightful place as a country with full and equal rights in this institution. We seek to realize our full potential to contribute to the global agenda. This is why I have decided to present for the first time Israel's candidacy for membership on the Security Council. It was the wisest leader of ancient Israel, King Solomon, who wrote, in the book of Ecclesiastes, 'For everything there is a season: a time to weep and a time to laugh; ... a time to love and a time to hate; a time for war and a time for peace.' This is a time for peace. A time for the leaders of the world to work together to bring the blessings of opportunity, peace and prosperity to all humanity. As the Jewish New Year dawns upon us, I extend on behalf of the Jewish people greetings of peace and brotherhood to our Muslim and Arab neighbours and to all nations.At the outset, I would like, on behalf of the Vietnamese delegation, sincerely to congratulate Mr. Jan Eliasson on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I am convinced that under his able stewardship this session will be crowned with success. Let me express our deep appreciation for the contributions made by his predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, to the work of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I also take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his great efforts over the past year to reform and strengthen our Organization. Taking place in the context of the many activities commemorating the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations — especially the High-level Plenary Meeting of the General Assembly that just concluded — the present session constitutes an event of crucial significance that offers us a great deal of hope and confidence. We believe that Member States will be able to work out effective ways in which to implement the commitments contained in the outcome document (resolution 60/1) just adopted by our leaders, especially those concerning the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). We are confident that, amid both challenges and opportunities and with the necessary wisdom and determination, we will find the right path towards a brighter future for humanity in the twenty-first century. In today’s celebratory atmosphere, we cannot and should not forget stark realities as we continue to see the spread of war and conflict, the resurgence of terrorism, natural disasters, poverty, the outbreak of epidemics and transnational crime, which are threatening the peace, security, independence and prosperity of nations. The people of the world were shocked by the recent terrorist attacks in London, in Sharm el-Sheikh and elsewhere. Viet Nam therefore joins with others in the fight against terrorism of all 21 kinds. It is our view that, in order to root out terrorism, the international community must seriously and adequately address the phenomena of poverty, injustice and inequality. Viet Nam welcomes the recent positive developments in the Middle East peace process. It is our consistent policy to support the just cause of the Palestinian people in their struggle for their inalienable rights. In that connection, we welcome Israel’s withdrawal from resettlement areas in the Gaza Strip. Proceeding from its principled position that international disputes should be settled by peaceful means, Viet Nam supports peaceful solutions to the nuclear issue in Iran and on the Korean peninsula. Considering embargoes and blockades to be unacceptable in the modern world, we call for the early lifting of the unilateral embargo against Cuba. It is Viet Nam’s view that the United Nations should be more active in that connection. The tsunami that affected Asian countries last year and Hurricane Katrina, which hit coastal cities of the United States, both resulting in the loss of a great number of lives and damage worth hundreds of billions of dollars, are reminders of the need for effective early warning systems, preparedness and international solidarity in confronting the forces of nature. As we are preparing to translate the commitments contained in the outcome document into action to reform the United Nations, I would like to associate myself with the views expressed by the Secretary- General in his report “In larger freedom” (A/59/2005) and reaffirmed in the outcome document concerning the interactive links among peace, security, development and human rights. Viet Nam’s experience shows that an environment of peace and political and social stability is indispensable for development and that economic growth, the improvement of people’s lives, will help to strengthen peace and stability. In that regard, we believe the United Nations should play a greater role in making those links more interactive. Viet Nam shares the common view that reform of the United Nations should aim, first and foremost, at enhancing the Organization’s efficiency and democracy on the basis of strengthening the fundamental principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter. It is essential to reinforce the central role and power of the General Assembly, a body that stipulates the equal participation of all United Nations Members. Reform of the Security Council should be accorded adequate attention, so that the Council can be turned into a body that is able to perform its functions in maintaining international peace and security effectively. The Council’s working methods should be improved to ensure democracy and transparency. The Council needs to be enlarged in both categories of its membership in order to ensure that it truly represents all United Nations Members, as stipulated in the Charter. We believe that developing States should be more adequately represented in that important organ. We would like to reiterate the support we have expressed since 1999 for India, Japan and Germany as permanent members of an expanded Council. Furthermore, Viet Nam believes that reform of the United Nations must be carried out comprehensively and in a way that ensures a balance between the two equally important and mutually complementary goals of maintaining peace and security and promoting development. An enabling environment for development must be built on the basis of equitable international economic relations, mutual benefit, shared responsibility and the fulfilment of agreed commitments. In that spirit, Viet Nam supports the proposals on development set out in the report of the Secretary- General and the commitments contained in the outcome document, especially the recommitment of the international community to achieving the MDGs on schedule. Viet Nam welcomes the commitment on the part of some developed countries to allocate 0.7 per cent of their gross national income to official development assistance without any conditions. If developing nations are to achieve the MDGs, it is essential that they be enabled to participate more actively in the global economy. Viet Nam therefore calls on the United Nations to adopt and implement measures to facilitate the entry of developing countries into the World Trade Organization. Moreover, non- tariff and other protective measures aimed at blocking exports from developing countries, under such pretexts as sanitary and phytosanitary standards, should be dismantled. Guaranteeing and promoting human rights always remain high priorities in the work of the United Nations. Viet Nam supports a greater role for the Organization in that regard. We will continue to spare no effort in contributing to the common cause of 22 human rights protection. Mindful of the need to reform the United Nations machinery for protecting human rights, we believe that reform must be conducted in a manner that is free from acts of politicization. More in-depth discussions are needed with regard to the issue of establishing a Human Rights Council and the concept of the responsibility to protect, so as to ensure broad support for the measures to be implemented. The Vietnamese people have just celebrated the sixtieth anniversary of the founding of their democratic State. Having gone through a process of comprehensive renewal, Viet Nam today is a country with high and sustained economic growth and social equity, and we have made significant progress in implementing the MDGs. Today, Viet Nam is a safe and stable country that has further integrated into the global economy and has pursued a foreign policy of independence, sovereignty and diversification, strengthening multilateral ties in its external relations. It is a country that is willing to be a friend and a reliable partner of all countries of the world community. We have actively participated in various regional, interregional and global cooperation arrangements. Viet Nam has been making great efforts to conclude negotiations for its early accession to the World Trade Organization. I would like to take this opportunity to extend our thanks to those countries that have supported Viet Nam in that connection. We are actively engaged in the cooperation activities of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), as well as with ASEAN cooperation with East Asia. To make a greater contribution to the work of the United Nations, Viet Nam has decided to present its candidacy for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the 2008-2009 term. We are now actively preparing to participate in United Nations peacekeeping operations when conditions are ripe. To conclude, let me assure the Assembly that Viet Nam will continue to work closely with other countries in the international community to strive for our common goals, among them a stronger United Nations.The summit of our leaders is over. Each of us here at the General Assembly has different feelings about it. Mine, I must say, are anxiety and hope. I am anxious not about the future of the United Nations as an Organization — its existence, after all, is not an end in itself — but about what the future of the United Nations holds. I place my hope in the future of the United Nations, because the present does not evoke unbridled optimism. There is but one source of optimism for all of us: that the summit, just finished, may serve as a wake-up call for us. Ernest Hemingway, an American who lived in Europe, evoked John Donne, who wrote, “never send to know for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for thee”. This turned out to be appallingly apt. Hemingway’s “For Whom the Bell Tolls” was written in the late 1930s and is set at the time and in the country where Guernica was destroyed. It is no coincidence that a depiction of that destruction hangs outside the Security Council Chamber. We all know what happened afterwards: from the ruins of the world the United Nations emerged. Belarus is not a doomsayer. Indeed, we ourselves experienced the utter horror of the Second World War in greater measure than anyone else and we do not want to see it repeated. But during the sixtieth anniversary year of the victory and of the founding of the United Nations, it is quite appropriate to recall these things. I do not want to state the obvious: that the United Nations is the Organization of all States, large and small, rich and poor. In this Organization everyone has equal rights and all work together to create the main product: peace. Yet I have to mention this because under the banner of reform there is a move to turn our Organization — de facto and de jure — into an instrument for the domination of some States by others. We all have witnessed this. A short while ago it was officially proposed that we approve a new decision-making procedure for the specialized agencies: those who pay more would have more votes. Now it is being proposed that we elect members to the main human rights body of the United Nations on the basis of subjective criteria. This is a dangerous trend, and a deviation from the United Nations Charter. It will lead to the splintering of the United Nations. Does the United Nations really need reform which creates preconditions for the more frequent and more arbitrary use of force at the sole discretion of the mighty? We are against reform which would turn the Organization created out of the ashes of the Second World War into an instrument of diktat by the militarily and economically most powerful States. Does the 17 United Nations need reform which would divide countries into those “worthy” and those “unworthy” of international assistance, into pupils and teachers in matters of governance and social development? We do not want such reform. To preserve and build upon the core values of the United Nations Charter, taking into account the realities of today, is the major task of genuine reform that our Organization really needs. The diversity of routes to progress is among those core values. At the summit, the President of the Republic of Belarus stressed that this can ensure the stability of the world and is an enduring value of our civilization (see A/60/PV.5). In today’s unipolar world, this value is not only belittled but challenged as well. What is behind the calls we heard in this Hall last week to “help those who wish to help themselves”? In practice this is a selective approach which recognizes the right to development only for those countries which have adopted government and economic reforms in accordance with a strictly defined model. Let us consider whether we need to clone this model the world over. Does it represent the strength and the value of our civilization? Does it represent the value of the United Nations? What can this one-sided world give to people? Will it be a comfortable home for our children? Today, as never before, we need to take an honest look at our world, which would allow us to discuss critical problems in a free and transparent manner and to look together for ways to solve them. An honest look at today’s world, for instance, would not allow us to overlook the problem of trafficking in human beings. This disgrace of the twenty-first century has overtaken all regions of the world. The most vulnerable — women and children, whose protection should be the priority task of the United Nations — serve as living merchandise. Forced adolescent labour, the sexual enslavement of women and girls and trafficking in human organs should be decisively opposed by all States and prohibited in their legislation. There is much to do in this sphere. Today, after all, fewer than half of Member States have ratified the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children. Just over a dozen countries have adopted national strategies or action plans to combat trafficking in human beings. But it will be possible to turn this social evil back only through a universal effort. In that respect, we consider it extremely important that all parties involved in that criminal trade be held responsible, including the consumers of those human commodities. It is high time for us to launch a decisive and organized campaign at the United Nations against all forms of trafficking in and exploitation of human beings, and to forge a global partnership against slavery and trafficking in human beings in the twenty-first century. Looking honestly at today’s world we cannot ignore the long-term effects of the Chernobyl disaster. The largest manmade disaster of the twentieth century, it has negatively impacted on the lives of millions of people and caused enormous economic damage. In Belarus alone, the disaster caused US$ 235 billion in damages. The Government of Belarus has accomplished much in the years since the disaster to minimize its effects. Now the time has come to assess the effectiveness of international assistance in that area and to chart the priorities for our joint work for the coming decade. Those are the issues that will be on the agenda of the international conference on the Chernobyl disaster to be held in April 2006 in Minsk. We call on Member States and all those who care about the fate of the millions of Chernobyl victims to support the Assembly’s adoption of the draft resolution on Chernobyl. Finally, we propose the convening of a special meeting of the General Assembly on 26 April 2006 to commemorate the twentieth anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy. Belarus is a country that is used to relying on itself. We are not seeking any unfair international advantages nor do we follow anyone else’s political lead. We have confidence in the strength, talent and diligence of our people. That is what allows us to speak and act in a principled and honest fashion in the international arena, without reference to the wishes of the powerful. It is precisely for that reason that we stand for an open and honest dialogue at the United Nations. This is our common home. Here, the same simple, unconditional and clear principle should apply for all countries: equal among equals. The future of the United Nations rests on that. Belarus is ready to work with everyone to make that future happen.I should like to begin my statement with a quotation from the Koran: 'Invite all to the way of thy Lord with wisdom and beautiful preaching; and argue with them in ways that are best and most gracious: for thy Lord knoweth best' (The Holy Koran, XVI:125). Last year, I declared from this rostrum that peace - the continuing strategic objective of the Government of Sudan - was at hand. Today, from the same rostrum, I would like to note that peace has become a reality with the signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and the adoption of the new Constitution. We have started to implement the Agreement in accordance with a fixed timetable. Unfortunately, as soon as we started to implement the Agreement with our partners in the Sudan Peopleís Liberation Movement (SPLM), we were faced with a great tragedy: the death of John Garang, the first Vice President of the Republic. With his passing, the country has lost an invaluable partner and participant in the peace process. It was not just a loss for the Sudan, but a great loss for Africa and all peace-loving people. Such tragedies are the true tests of our will, and our brethren in the SPLM have responsibly come through that crisis and difficult test, putting aside their bitter shock and continuing to build a durable peace. The Comprehensive Peace Agreement was not limited solely to issues between the north and the south. It set up a comprehensive framework for resolving justly all the problems of our country. It has established rules for a political regime that considers citizenship to involve rights, duties and obligations - a regime that is based on democracy, the rule of law, good governance, respect for human rights and the equitable division of wealth and power based on fair standards that will ensure comprehensive peace. We are fully committed to the letter and the spirit of the Peace Agreement, and we accept and understand the magnitude of our responsibility to fulfil it. We are fully confident that bringing peace to the Sudan will have a positive impact on regional stability and allow the Sudan to continue to play its proper role within the international community. As we have begun to implement the Peace Agreement, we call upon the international community immediately to lift all commercial and economic sanctions and restrictions, to cancel all of the Sudanís external debt and to fulfil the pledges it made at the Oslo conference. Such actions will provide support for the Agreement and promote reconstruction and development in the Sudan. In that context, we express appreciation and gratitude to the United Nations for the important role it has played in the implementation of the Agreement, particularly the work of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Mr. Jan Pronk. The people of Darfur are still not able to live in conditions of peace. We will make every effort to implement the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and the Declaration of Principles adopted at Abuja, with a view to bringing about that objective. We will continue to cooperate with the international community in improving the humanitarian and security situation, which has already improved greatly. But that is not enough. We hope to ensure complete stability in Darfur. The Governmentís commitment to agreements and arrangements entered into relating to the achievement of a ceasefire and the improvement of the security situation should be matched by a similar commitment from the armed movements, which should end their violations and agree to an immediate ceasefire. The international community should continue to put pressure on them to negotiate seriously in order to achieve a peaceful solution to the problem. My Government underlines the importance of achieving definitive peace in Darfur as quickly as possible. We have a three-track plan aimed at returning Darfur to its proper situation. The first is the political track, which is designed to resolve the root causes of the dispute and to reach an agreement. The second relates to the implementation of the voluntary repatriation programmes. The third relates to the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programmes. In the framework of those commitments, the Government has encouraged reconciliation among tribe and community leaders, which would help to provide a solution to the root causes of the conflict. In order to improve the security situation and achieve a peaceful resolution of the conflict, the Government is making every effort, with the participation of the international community, to deal with the urgent humanitarian problem and the problem of internally displaced persons and refugees. We have undertaken a number of development plans to deal with 22 the dispute about resources, which represents one of the main problems. In that context, the Government is looking forward to entering into an effective international partnership with a view to bringing about those ambitious plans and establishing a special fund for development and rehabilitation in Darfur similar to that agreed to at the Oslo conference for the south. In expressing its appreciation for the efforts of the international community, the Sudan would like to pay tribute to the active role of the African Union. We call on the international community to continue to assist and support that role. The Sudan adopted a transitional Constitution in July 2005, and the President and Vice-President will exercise their mandate in conformity with its provisions. We have established a Government of National Unity, which will continue the transitional process. We have begun this phase by conducting a responsible dialogue with all members of the political opposition, who continue to operate freely. The transitional Constitution includes human rights provisions ensuring respect for the rights, obligations and fundamental freedoms of all Sudanese citizens. We will continue to work with international organizations in order to develop and promote human rights in the country. This is the last occasion on which I will speak to the Assembly as Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Sudan, because yesterday a new Minister for Foreign Affairs, my brother Mr. Lam Akol, was appointed by the Popular Movement. I extend to the General Assembly my gratitude and appreciation for its cooperation during my work as Foreign Minister of the Sudan in the past several years. Tragically, the Palestinian people are still under Israeli occupation. The international community is called upon to force Israel to halt its illegal practices in the occupied Palestinian territories, to dismantle the separation wall, to withdraw from all the Arab territories that it occupied in 1967 and to allow the Palestinian people to realize their legitimate rights, including their right to an independent State, with Al-Quds as its capital. The international community should take action to bring about a comprehensive, peaceful settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict, in accordance with the resolutions of international legitimacy, the road map, the principle of land for peace and the Madrid terms of reference. The Sudan has participated in agreements aimed at putting an end to nuclear proliferation. The conflict- ridden Middle East should be a zone free from nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. International justice and laws should apply in that region, with no exceptions for any State, with a view to ensuring stability and peace, emphasizing the rights of peoples to use nuclear power for peaceful purposes, particularly in scientific research. The Sudan supports the right of all countries, including Iran, to use nuclear power for peaceful purposes, in accordance with International Atomic Energy Agency regulations. The situation in Iraq is very unstable. The Iraqi people, who are suffering greatly, need the international community to help them to overcome the crisis there. In this respect, we would like to underscore once again our principled position that we must preserve the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of Iraq and ensure non-interference in its internal affairs, with a view to bringing about stability and peace and restoring normal living conditions there. We call upon the international community to contribute, as soon as possible, to the rebuilding of Iraq and to support the transitional Government so as to allow the Iraqi people to live in dignity on their land. The African Union has set up policies and mechanisms aimed at dealing effectively with the dispute resolution and the establishment of stability on that continent, which is rich in resources, including human resources. Africa is continuing to use those resources for development purposes, within the framework of the New Partnership for Africaís Development. The first meeting of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region restored hope that peace, stability and development can return to the region. We hope that the second such summit will be held within the next few months, and that it will result in a united stance that will lead to peace, security and development in the region. We were encouraged by the meeting that was held on the sidelines of the High- level Plenary Meeting with a view to preparing for a second International Conference on the Great Lakes Region. In this context, I would like to refer to Somalia - a very important African country, which is trying to move beyond the bitterness of war and conflict and to re-establish itself as a State. Somalia 23 should receive the cooperation and support that it needs from the international community, and from the United Nations in particular. Since the Millennium Summit in 2000, some achievements have been made with a view to meeting the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). But the Goals have not been adequately achieved in Africa, which still has to deal with poverty, disease, underdevelopment and debt. As we meet here five years after the first summit, we must pause and consider what we have achieved and what we aspire to achieve. We live in a world in which people have varied standards of living and wealth. The rich have become richer, and the poor have become poorer. The gap between them is great, and there are enormous paradoxes. There are very rich countries whose citizens spend millions of dollars on weight loss, and there are other poor countries that seek just a small fraction of that amount to keep barely alive. We take this opportunity to reaffirm, as agreed in the framework of the Millennium Declaration, that we must achieve the Millennium Development Goals in order to create a better life for all humanity. Here, we must point out that the Sudan has worked hard to attain the goals and has made significant progress in reducing poverty and increasing basic education levels, despite the unjust siege and the long conflict in the southern part of the country. All those efforts are reflected in Sudanís 2004 MDG report. In that context, we should stress the importance of the total cancellation of debt. Debt is a great hindrance to achieving the Development Goals in Africa and in the least developed countries. Attaching conditions to debt cancellation will only impede development. Here, we must remind developed countries of their commitments to financing for development, in accordance with the Monterrey Consensus. An international partnership to achieve the MDGs as envisaged in Goal 8, is essential. Unfortunately, the main difficulty in achieving the Goals is the establishment of such a partnership, which will not be possible without allowing developing, and least developed countries in particular, to integrate fully into the international economy. Imposing unilateral economic sanctions against developing countries hinders free trade and investment. Financing and the transfer of technology are among the other issues encountered in efforts to achieve sustainable development. We live in a world of many challenges and threats. The international community has recognized that development, peace and security are closely interconnected. The main challenges faced by the international community today are maintaining international peace and security and achieving economic growth and development. Meeting those challenges will be possible only in a collective world led by an effective and capable United Nations. The Sudan has actively participated in the consultations on creating a framework for collective action and on United Nations reform. We support reform that is in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter and the relevant provisions of international law. We have emphasized the establishment of a new human rights mechanism to address the shortcomings - including politicization, selectivity and double standards - that have prevented the Commission on Human Rights from carrying out its responsibilities. The Sudan believes that we should consider establishing a new mechanism that deals with the negative policies of the past and is committed to the principles of equality among States and respect for equitable geographical representation, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Charter. On the basis of what the United Nations has successfully achieved in the security, economic and social areas, we should aspire to achieve the objectives of the High- level Plenary Meeting and thus to create a peaceful and safe world in which all of us will shoulder our responsibilities. Clearly, we all reject terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and we stand together with others to eliminate it; indeed, a counter-terrorism conference is now being held in Khartoum to combat terrorism in East Africa. What we reject are attempts to confuse terrorism with the struggle of peoples for liberation and independence and attempts to link terrorism to a specific religion or culture. Terrorism is an international scourge that is not limited to a specific religion or culture, and we believe that any attempt to confuse the issue could cause problems and weaken our collective resolve to develop a comprehensive strategy to combat it. The Sudan will continue to be a messenger to States, calling for a dialogue among cultures and 24 civilizations aimed at attaining humanityís objectives. The international fight against terrorism must be based on the Charter of the United Nations and the relevant provisions of international law. In that context, the Sudan calls for the holding of an international conference to arrive at an agreed definition of terrorism and stresses that the rejection of terrorism does not mean that we should ignore the reasons behind it. We must deal with the root causes of the problem if we are to be successful in eradicating it. In conclusion, the Sudan reaffirms its belief in the purposes and principles of the Charter. We stress our resolve to continue to work with the international community to strengthen the Organization so that it can efficiently carry out its role and mandate.Sixty years ago, our predecessors, having adopted the United Nations Charter, made sure that the United Nations immediately got down to work. We need to act now with the same urgency. In the face of the profound challenges that confront the world — some of long standing, some new — our heads of State and Government last week agreed on a far-reaching agenda for change. Although the summit did not achieve all that we had hoped for, it is still a major step forward. It is now time for follow-up. On Saturday the Secretary-General proposed an accountability pact. He undertook to deliver on his obligations but said that we, the Member States, must deliver on ours. That requires real political leadership all round. I here commit Ireland to playing its part. The United Nations has no Member more loyal than Ireland. But we realize that the United Nations needs to change, just as the world around it has changed. This has to be our focus over the next year. And what we do affects not just us here in this Hall, but billions of our fellow human beings. For the first time in its history, the human race has the capacity to end extreme poverty. The summit has endorsed the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) as the benchmark of progress towards that objective. Ireland will play its full part. Last week, my Prime Minister committed Ireland to reaching the 0.7 target by 2012. By that year we will be spending up to 1.5 billion euros annually. Moreover, our aid will remain completely untied and directed towards the very poorest. Africa is, and will continue to be, the primary focus of Ireland’s aid programme. Over the past year, we have been tragically reminded of human vulnerability in the face of natural disasters. Their causes may be beyond our control, but how we react is in our own hands. Ireland will place an even stronger emphasis on emergency and humanitarian relief. In particular, we are urgently examining how we ourselves can improve our own capacity to deliver effective civilian protection in such cases. Conflict resolution is a vital part of the United Nations mission. It is not enough to end war. We must win the peace. Without coherent peacebuilding strategies, vulnerable countries may not escape the cycle of 17 violence. From the start, my country has been a leading proponent of the Peacebuilding Commission. Now that it has been agreed, let us work hard to get it up and running by the beginning of 2006. At the summit, there was agreement on the vital principle that the international community should take action to prevent genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity when the responsible Governments fail to do so. I hope and pray that such eventualities will never again come to pass. But if they do, we must act in a way which honours that solemn commitment. We have failed grievously in the past and must never do so again. The summit has committed us to strengthening the United Nations human rights machinery. I strongly welcome the decision to double the budget of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. And the decision to establish a Human Rights Council was very positive. Now the General Assembly must move swiftly to flesh out the modalities and the structure. It must be composed and operate in a way which avoids the failings of the past. But the best features of the Commission on Human Rights, such as its engagement with civil society, must be retained. Ireland particularly values the work of human rights defenders in calling Governments to account, and that must continue. Once more, we meet in the shadow of terrorism. So many recent and terrible acts remind us that no country is immune, as Ireland knows from its own long and bitter experiences. We should agree on the comprehensive convention on combating terrorism without delay during this session of the General Assembly. And all existing specific conventions must be fully implemented, and practical cooperation made more effective. The threat of terrorism requires a robust security response. But that response must be intelligent, calibrated and proportionate. It must respect human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. And although no cause can ever justify terrorism, the political and social conditions within which it breeds must also be addressed. We cannot ignore the threat posed to our security by weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons. Ireland was deeply disappointed at the failure of the recent Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). We were equally disappointed at the inability of the summit to make any progress on that absolutely vital issue. But we cannot afford to give up hope. The logic in favour of the twin and mutually reinforcing goals of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation remains compelling. I welcome what appear to be positive developments with regard to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and salute the leadership of its neighbours and the United States in the negotiating process. Under the NPT, countries have every right to choose the option of civilian nuclear power. But it is essential that they do so in full accordance with the NPT and under the supervision of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). International confidence in their exclusively peaceful intent is also vital and, where damaged, must be rebuilt in a clear and fully verifiable way. With our other European Union partners, Ireland fully supports the efforts of the European Union three to achieve that outcome with regard to Iran. We must continue to reform the structures of the United Nations. The need to align the Security Council with today’s realities is widely acknowledged. This remains an important piece of unfinished business. We must fulfil our commitment to revitalize the Assembly. And we need to take a serious look at how the Economic and Social Council can better fulfil its role. The Secretary-General has made clear his commitment to delivering on management reform within the Organization, as was requested by the summit. Very substantial progress on this question must be made during the present session. I would now like to touch on a number of issues of specific concern to Ireland. In relation to the Middle East and Iraq, the achievement of a lasting peace in the Middle East is of great importance to the entire world. Here, too, political will is the crucial ingredient. The initial difficult phase of Israel’s disengagement from settlements in Gaza has taken place peacefully. The courage and the commitment of Prime Minister Sharon and his Government have been commendable. Much, however, remains to be done. I welcome the determination of President Abbas and his colleagues to take full advantage of the 18 opportunity presented by the withdrawal. They must, with our help, maintain their efforts to ensure peace, security and the rule of law. And disengagement will truly be a success only if Gaza becomes economically viable, with free trade and free movement. This is clearly in Israel’s interests, as well as in those of the Palestinians. Disengagement is an important advance. It cannot be the end, but rather a step towards the full implementation of the Quartet’s road map. With the support and the assistance of the international community, both sides must press forward and renew momentum towards a permanent peace. It is also vital that, in particular in relation to the West Bank — as my delegation has spelled out in detail on many occasions — Israel desist completely from further steps which could jeopardize the viability of a two-State solution. With respect to Iraq, the people of Iraq face appalling challenges from terrorism. Despite that, they have courageously taken steps towards the restoration of full democracy and the control of their own destiny. The final decision on the adoption of the draft constitution now rests with the people themselves in next month’s referendum. The international community must do whatever it can to ensure that the vote takes place in a democratic and peaceful way. We have seen elsewhere that, no matter how difficult and imperfect progress may be, with political will and the support of the international community, it is possible to move forward, away from conflict. The elections yesterday in Afghanistan are a further welcome milestone in its transition. I also commend the excellent progress made in Aceh. I am proud that Irish soldiers are among those taking part in the monitoring mission run by the European Union and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). Sadly, in Burma-Myanmar, human rights and democracy continue to be denied. That is most acutely symbolized by the continued detention of the heroic Aung San Suu Kyi. The cumulative length of her detention now approaches ten years. Her ordeal is not forgotten by the people of Ireland. I urge ASEAN, in particular, to demonstrate effective regional leadership and to heighten pressure on the regime to release her and move along the path of reform. As I said earlier, Ireland is particularly committed to Africa. We contribute substantially to development and conflict resolution, and we will continue to increase that contribution. But external help can do only so much. In the resolution of various political crises affecting the continent, the key requirement is, again, political leadership and vision. We welcome the recent signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement in the Sudan, which must now be fully implemented. I am encouraged that, despite the tragic and untimely death of Vice-President Garang, both sides have reaffirmed their commitment to the Agreement. However, the situation in Darfur continues to be deeply worrying. My Government fully supports the African Union’s mission to improve security there. We look forward to early progress in the International Criminal Court investigation into human rights violations. The Government of the Sudan and the parties in Darfur must renew their efforts to conclude a comprehensive peace agreement by December, and the international community must continue to support efforts led by the United Nations to provide humanitarian assistance. I welcome recent progress in the Great Lakes region, in particular in Burundi, where the elected representatives have shown generosity of spirit and courage. I look forward to parallel progress in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Ireland will contribute to support for the electoral process there. But I am seriously concerned at the situation in Zimbabwe. The downward spiral, which, above all, hurts the ordinary people of that nation, must be reversed. The Zimbabwean Government should start by accepting the recommendations of the Secretary General’s Special Envoy. Turning to a topic closer to home, in the Northern Ireland peace process it is also time for renewed leadership. There is a real prospect of the full implementation of the Good Friday Agreement — which was put together in 1998 and voted by the people of Ireland — and the sustained operation of its institutions. The British and Irish Governments are partners in that endeavour, and we look for others to join us in delivering their promises. The Irish Republican Army took a major and courageous step forward in July. We now expect early 19 movement to deliver fully, in a verified and convincing way, on its commitment to decommissioning. There is no room for fudge and, equally, no room for any continuation of paramilitarism or criminality. Sinn Fein should also show leadership in moving to support the Police Service of Northern Ireland and to take their place in the governance of policing. The Police Service is showing professionalism, courage and even- handedness. The completion of the policing project would represent a profound move towards peace and political stability, and I call upon Sinn Fein, in particular, to take the hard decisions needed. Equally, leadership is needed from within the Unionist community. When the IRA’s commitments are fully delivered and verified, then the way will be clear for renewed political discussions by all parties on the reactivation of the Northern Ireland institutions. The Unionist parties say they are prepared to share power, when it is clear that the threat of violence has been removed once and for all. It should soon be time for them to demonstrate that good faith. I also look to the Unionist community to show determination in condemning and doing all it can to discourage the continuation of the appalling lawlessness, which has in recent times so badly affected both loyalist communities and their vulnerable nationalist neighbours. The need for political leadership is so urgent precisely because the prospect of decisive progress is so real and so alluring. Following the summit, we have a collective responsibility to grasp the opportunity to reinvigorate the United Nations. If we fail, our peoples today and in the future will not judge us kindly. Ireland gives its full backing to the Secretary- General’s proposals for change. I personally was honoured to act as one of his envoys, because, like him, we recognized that the United Nations was at a fork in the road. At the summit, we chose to start down the right track, but there is a long way to travel. I pledge again that over the year ahead Ireland will remain at the forefront of the drive for reform and renewal.May I first take this opportunity to congratulate the President on his election to lead the work of the General Assembly. Let me also reassure him of Tonga’s support and full confidence that the sixtieth session of the General Assembly will be fruitful and successful under his very able leadership. I would also like to give due recognition to the sterling work of his predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Gabon, during the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I also join others in commending Secretary- General Kofi Anan for his leadership of our Organization. As we celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of our Organization, we can pause and reflect on where we are, and on the basis of our experience in the past and the opportunities available for us in the future. We can chart a roadmap that will ensure that we, the Member States, deliver on our commitments to the purposes and principles of the Charter and international law, which are indispensable foundations of a more peaceful, prosperous and just world. Tonga shares the concerns voiced by several other delegations that business cannot proceed as usual, as this will continue to affect the role and relevancy of our Organization and the important place of multilateralism in accomplishing its aims. The Secretary-General’s High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change delivered the landmark report expected of it. The Panel’s far- reaching findings and recommendations laid a firm foundation for what our Foreign Minister described last year as “constructive engagement”. Tonga remains optimistic that the level and intensity of engagement among Member States can still produce a lasting legacy of improvement and the necessary changes for our Organization and its important work. Last Friday, at the conclusion of the historic High-level Plenary Meeting, heads of State and Government adopted the outcome document, which provides multilateral solutions to the problems in development, peace and collective security, human rights, the rule of law and the strengthening of the United Nations. The baton has now been passed on to us to begin the implementation phase of the summit’s outcome, and we need to rise to the challenge to make good on our promises. The development agenda remains the first priority for small island developing countries, including Tonga. Over three decades, we have accumulated experience in national and integrated regional development planning and have, therefore, fully embraced our primary responsibility for our own development. The achievement of the Millennium Development Goals has been incorporated into our wider development efforts. The financing of these development programmes, however, continues to depend on bilateral and multilateral official development assistance (ODA), as well as on concessionary loans from regional and global financial institutions. In this regard, we welcome the proposed increased resources that will become available as a result of the establishment of timetables by many developed countries to achieve the target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product (GNP) for ODA by 2015. We congratulate those countries that have already fulfilled their commitment in meeting the required target. The recent efforts and initiatives to enhance the quality of aid and to increase its impact, including the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, are also welcome steps. ODA, while necessary, will be insufficient on its own and would have to be complemented by active promotion of foreign direct investment, improving trade access and effective development partnerships. The outcome document emphasizes that one of the critical challenges to economic growth is to ensure that the necessary internal conditions are put in place for mobilizing domestic savings. Tonga embarked on a public sector and economic reform programme in 2002. To date, several important pieces of legislation have been enacted through the Legislative Assembly, including the Public Finance Act of 2002, to modernize the way the Government manages its finances and to provide for more transparency; the Public Service Act of 2002, to modernize employment and remuneration methods; and the Public Enterprise Act of 2002 to provide for increased accountability by public enterprises. A programme of reform of Tonga’s system 29 of taxation is also under way to bring it into conformity with international norms and bilateral and multilateral obligations. Tonga welcomes the recognition in the outcome document of the special needs and vulnerabilities of small island developing States and the commitment to address those needs and vulnerabilities through full and effective implementation of the Mauritius Strategy adopted by the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. Energy continues to play a crucial role in Tonga’s sustainable development strategies, and maintaining a fine balance between energy, the environment and the economy is a national priority. Tonga’s increasing reliance on imported petroleum products to satisfy its energy needs means that it is particularly vulnerable to external events that affect the price and availability of petroleum products. In this regard, Tonga reiterates its concern over the continuing escalation of the price of oil and its negative impact on its economy. Concerted efforts will have to focus on research and development for alternative sources of energy. Tonga recognizes the need to promote gender equality with the implementation of its National Policy on Gender and Development, which was approved in 2001. Remittances are a welcome source of foreign exchange, and Tonga is recorded as one the countries most dependent on them as they amount to 39 per cent of gross domestic product. We therefore acknowledge the important nexus between international migration and development and the need to deal with the challenges and opportunities that migration presents to countries of origin, destination and transit. We also look forward to the General Assembly’s high-level dialogue on international migration and development, to be held in 2006. We join with others who have voiced their regret at the failure of the 2005 Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference and reiterate the importance of implementing the three pillars of the Treaty. Tonga supports the call to establish the mandate, modalities, functions, size, composition membership, working methods and procedures of the new Human Rights Council as soon as possible during the current session of the General Assembly. We fully recognize that post-conflict peacebuilding is vital to achieving sustainable peace and support the establishment of a Peacebuilding Commission by the end of 2005. We strongly condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, committed by whomever, wherever and for whatever purpose, as it constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security. We also look forward to the successful conclusion of the comprehensive convention on international terrorism during the present session of the Assembly. Tonga continues to support the work of the Counter- Terrorism Committee and has progressed well in drafting domestic legislation to put into effect all of the 12 counter-terrorism conventions to which we have acceded. We applaud the efforts and proposals for a comprehensive package of reforms to revitalize the General Assembly and to strengthen the Economic and Social Council, to enable them to fulfil their mandates as envisaged in the Charter. We also support the ongoing work of the Secretary-General to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the Secretariat. Perhaps one of the more intense engagements among our membership involves the reform of the Security Council. Tonga maintains its support for Japan’s proper and permanent place on any enhanced Council. The emergence, in particular, of prospective permanent members and novel ideas on criteria has made this issue more deserving of further patience, poise and pragmatism. However, momentum and advances on readily agreeable aspects of our reform agenda should proceed to fruition. The ever-changing landscape of the Middle East continues to present hopeful signs suggesting that an enduring peace is possible. Genuine gestures, like that involving Gaza, by Israel and the Palestinian Authority, offer a platform upon which mutual borders might be secured and upon which statehood might flourish. Regional organizations play an important role in supporting and complementing the interests of member countries in various fields, and Tonga acknowledges the role of the Pacific Island Forum in that regard. At a regional level, Tonga is fully committed to its 30 obligations in ensuring peace in the region and continues to support the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands with the third deployment by the Tonga Defence Services currently in operation in the Solomon Islands. The Pacific Plan, which was articulated by our Pacific Forum leaders for the realization of their vision through deeper and stronger regional cooperation and integration in the areas of economic growth, social development, security and environmental protection, will be tabled for consideration by the leaders in October of this year. Tonga, therefore, welcomes the call for support of a stronger relationship between the United Nations and regional organizations. The Kingdom continues to observe a “one-China” policy that recognizes Taiwan as an integral and inalienable part of China. An essential component of that policy properly acknowledges that common and mutual issues are ideally left to an across-the-Strait framework dialogue, as opposed to any multilateral formula, however well conceived. Tonga continues to develop and strengthen its “Look East” policy, in particular with China. Earlier this year, the Kingdom established a diplomatic presence in Beijing to give strong voice to its interests and impetus to its exploration and pursuit of mutually relevant and beneficial ventures, including tourism, trade, aviation and security. The world is watching us. Let us not renege on our commitments but push forward on the reforms that are essential to ensuring that multilateralism remains the most efficient and effective way to address global problems and issues.Speaking for the first time from this rostrum, I wish to reaffirm here the importance France attaches to the multilateral system. Our common future cannot be envisaged without strengthening it. The declaration adopted the day before yesterday is a milestone in that direction, even if it does not meet all our expectations. Indeed, the text makes some significant advances. I am thinking in particular of innovative financing for development. I am also thinking of the decision to establish a peacebuilding commission within the Security Council. Finally, I am thinking of the establishment of a Human Rights Council and the endorsement of the principle of the responsibility to protect. Now it is up to us to put those new concepts into practice. In that connection, I wish to pay tribute here to the remarkable work that has been done under the stewardship of Mr. Jean Ping. But let us not underestimate the extent of the task that still remains to be accomplished, be it in the areas of counter-terrorism, non-proliferation, Security Council reform or development assistance. The United Nations is founded on the rule of law and the promotion of universal standards. Those reflect our common values and our conviction that there can be no security and development without scrupulous respect for human rights. This is not a moral question but one of respect for the identity of every individual. It is not a matter of passing judgement but of enabling all people to live in greater freedom and in dignity. Let us reject the impressment of children in armed conflicts, the systematic use of sexual violence against women and girls as a weapon of war, the recourse to threats, arbitrary detention and torture of opponents, journalists, labour leaders and defenders of human rights. And, let us conclude the negotiations on a convention against forced disappearances. To that end, let us strengthen the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and promptly establish the Human Rights Council. France particularly welcomes the fact that the international community now has the necessary legitimacy to exercise effectively its responsibility to protect populations threatened by ethnic cleansing, crimes against humanity and genocide. France also welcomes the progress of the international criminal justice system, in particular through the action of the Security Council. Those who believe they can count on the international community not to act when they commit their crimes should make no mistake: they will be held accountable. Sixty years after the founding of the United Nations, terrorism is now at the top of the list of human rights violations. Nothing — no cause, religion or moral order — can justify attacks on the lives of innocents, the lives of civilians. We must define acts of terrorism once and for all so that we can better combat that barbaric practice which sets humankind back. 17 The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction constitutes another major threat for the planet, against which we must remain united and determined. France, together with its British and German partners, has proposed to Iran a constructive approach paving the way for a new relationship between that great country and the international community. That relationship is currently compromised by concerns over Iran’s nuclear programme. We ask Iran to build trust by providing objective guarantees on the exclusively peaceful nature of its programme. Iran’s statements from this rostrum compel the international community to meet its responsibilities, as referral of the matter to the Security Council is on the agenda in order to strengthen the authority of the International Atomic Energy Agency. The very integrity of the non- proliferation regime is at stake. But let us also work to reduce the proliferation of small arms and light weapons, which fuel so many very deadly conflicts. To better serve peace and ensure the security of populations, the Security Council has expanded its field of action to the trafficking that finances conflicts and the impunity that protects traffickers, using, in particular, sanctions and embargoes. The United Nations is resolutely engaged on the ground, at the very heart of conflicts. More than 70,000 blue helmeted soldiers and police officers are now serving in 18 peacekeeping operations, and thousands of others are operating under Security Council mandates. The results can be seen, for example, in Timor- Leste, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi, Liberia and Sierra Leone. But as countries emerge from crisis, it is essential that they continue to benefit from our full attention and support. The United Nations has the duty to take a central role in the transition phase through the Peacebuilding Commission. Other situations demand great vigilance and a high level of mobilization. Thus, in Haiti, the presence of strong contingents of United Nations soldiers and police must lead to the strengthening of the political process by involving all peaceful forces without exception. Preparations for elections must be accelerated. Like all peoples, the Haitian people, who have suffered for too long, are entitled to respect and freedom. In Côte d’Ivoire, the presence of the United Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire and the appointment of a High Representative of the Secretary- General for the elections should also help strengthen implementation of the process set out at Marcoussis and Pretoria. But in Côte d’Ivoire, as in Haiti, the determined action of the united international community will not produce results unless all parties cooperate in good faith and demonstrate their sense of responsibility. In Abidjan as in Bouaké, all must respect their pledged commitments so that free and transparent elections can be held throughout the country. No other solution is possible. That is why it is essential to resolutely support the electoral process that has begun, as well as the demobilization, disarmament and reintegration programmes. All Ivorian parties must understand that they will not block the peace efforts with impunity if they take an obstructive stance, make hate speeches or challenge democratic rules. The Security Council will meet its responsibilities. The situation in Lebanon demonstrates what can be accomplished by a determined international mobilization, supported by the courageous will of the people. Most Syrian forces have now left Lebanon. Elections have been held. A representative Government has been formed. Our Organization must continue to support the Lebanese Government’s efforts to recover full sovereignty and exercise its authority over the whole of its territory. At the same time, we must continue to support the work of the commission of inquiry into the assassination of Rafik Hariri. We are determined to see justice done. Also with respect to the Middle East, a dynamic of hope, which could touch all States of the region, is emerging following Israel’s withdrawal from Gaza. France, together with its European partners, stands with the Palestinians to rebuild and develop that territory so that its inhabitants can move around freely and have access to jobs and, quite simply, to decent living conditions. But we must not stop there. It is important to restore political prospects for relaunching implementation of the road map by, on the one hand, encouraging the Palestinians to redouble their efforts on security and, on the other, encouraging the Israelis to take the measures necessary to stop settlement activity and to comply with international law in their 18 struggle for security. Peace can come only with the existence of two peaceful and democratic States living side by side in peace and security. Finally, with respect to Iraq, France remains engaged so that, with the assistance of the United Nations in particular, the Iraqi people can acquire democratic institutions with which all Iraqis can feel identified. It is clear that a policy focused exclusively on security leads to the retrenchment of a community, thus jeopardizing the cohesion of Iraqi society and the country’s unity. In Iraq, too, the political process must not exclude any representative, peaceful force, and the political process must offer Iraq the prospect of the restoration of its complete sovereignty. In all those crises, the Security Council has gradually imposed the authority of the United Nations in the service of international peace and security. Its action is legitimate, and its authority will be further strengthened when we reach agreement on an enlargement of the Council that reflects the emergence of new Powers and which gives an equitable place to all continents. At the same time, it is important to carry out the thorough management reforms that our Organization requires. In his report entitled “In larger freedom” (A/59/2005), the Secretary-General proposed elements of an action plan and initiated the first reforms. I pay tribute to his resoluteness and reaffirm France’s determination to support him in his approach. We all know that security and development cannot be separated. Five years after the Millennium Summit, heads of State or Government have just issued a troubling assessment of the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. The outcome document they adopted (resolution 60/1) clearly sets out the priorities on which we must take action. The first of those sadly remains food security, because, as underlined by the Declaration on Action Against Hunger and Poverty, adopted in 2004 on the initiative of President Lula and President Chirac, hunger remains the worst weapon of mass destruction. It continues to kill several hundred million men, women and children around the planet. We can see it happening right now in the Sahel and southern Africa. That scourge belonging to another age can and must be fought. Of course, emergency humanitarian aid must be provided to people in distress. That implies strengthening the coordination of United Nations interventions and, in particular, the establishment of an international humanitarian force, as proposed on several occasions by France. But beyond that, it is important to provide all areas at risk with the technical resources for prevention and early warning. Above all, it is essential to create the conditions for sustainable development to the benefit of all. That is the aim of the Millennium Development Goals, whose attainment requires substantial long-term financing. Official development assistance will continue to be primary for much time to come. The summit’s outcome document recalls the international commitments made in that regard, which France and the European Union will respect. It is urgent that the other developed countries make the same commitments. But we know well that this will not be sufficient. Additional long-term resources have to be found through innovative financing mechanisms. France endorses the establishment of international solidarity contributions. Over 66 countries have given their support to the pilot project to levy a tax on airline tickets, and we welcome this. In February, France will host a ministerial conference on this initiative so that it can be implemented specifically and promptly. By devoting three of the eight Goals to health, the Millennium Declaration has put public health back at the centre of sustainable development. In terms of its scope and socio-economic impact, the HIV/AIDS pandemic is of concern to us all. Only by working together will we be able to deal with it, through an approach that integrates prevention, treatment, care and the medical and social vulnerability of infected persons. France wants to carry out this integrated approach with its European partners and with the World Health Organization, the Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. We must do everything possible to achieve universal access to treatment by 2010, if need be promoting greater flexibility of intellectual property rights as provided for in the Doha international trade agreements. The fight against AIDS requires us all to mobilize our efforts. For its part, France has pledged to double its contribution to the Global Fund, increasing the 19 amount to 300 million euros by 2007. At the same time, international cooperation must take into account the particular challenges faced by certain categories of individuals: victims of abject poverty who are excluded, young women denied the right to sexual and reproductive health, those with disabilities marginalized by society. From the Indian Ocean to the Gulf of Mexico, from Japan to Antarctica, man is confronted today with an unprecedented rise in environmental threats that he himself has caused. Scientific proof of the reality of climate change and its human origins are irrefutable. All initiatives must be compatible with the Kyoto Protocol; prospects must be charted for the future of the multilateral climate regime after 2012. France would hope to see more robust commitments, especially regarding the transfer of technologies to emerging countries. To respond to the threat and more effectively mobilize energies and resources, France and Europe have proposed the establishment of a specialized agency, based on the United Nations Environment Programme, for the purpose of coordinating international action. This idea is mentioned in the summit’s outcome document; it must now be translated into reality. The United Nations is commemorating its sixtieth anniversary this year. The world has changed profoundly since 1945. Millions of men and women have gained freedom and have emerged from underdevelopment. Technological progress has been staggering and has radically changed the life of society and relations among States. Challenges and threats have changed; they are now worldwide and jeopardize humanity itself. Yet, we must remain optimistic. It is not too late, given that we understand what is at stake and that we mobilize collectively. The United Nations is rediscovering the way charted for it by the founding fathers: helping in the peaceful settlement of disputes, building international cooperation for development and promoting human rights. We need the United Nations more than ever; it is the sole framework for universal comprehensive action which is legitimate and recognized as such by all States. Let us give it our full support. France for its part makes this commitment.I would like to extend the sincerest condolences of the people and Government of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay to the victims of Hurricane Katrina, as well as to all the citizens of the world, men and women, old and young, who are victims of natural disasters, of the fury of nature, which is showing us that it will no longer be abused by mankind. I come from Uruguay, a small South American country, whose main wealth is its vocation for peace, its drive for freedom and the democratic commitment that its people have been forging for generations. I convey the greetings of the people and Government of Uruguay to this forum, which is the broadest, most representative and most important forum in the world today. It is a greeting that is demanding, committed and hopeful. The greeting is demanding because we are living at a very particular time in the history of mankind. In fact, at very few moments in history have we seen circumstances so rich in paradoxes and so poor in paradigms as the present one. Never before has mankind had at its disposal such scientific and technological progress and such a significant cultural heritage to guarantee a life in dignity. However, never before has mankind suffered so much inequality, intolerance and uncertainty. We know that we have reached this point, but we are uncertain about where we are heading. We cannot be passive witnesses to the situation; no one can wash his hands of his own problems nor of problems that seem remote. We cannot resign ourselves to a future that is an unchanging extension of the present. There is no reason whatsoever to give up the hope of a utopia, without which darkness could be our fate. Our greeting is committed because we all bear the responsibility, which we cannot abdicate, of being the masters of our own lives and the architects of our own futures. This task is a road on which neither privileges nor condemnations are allowed; we are all travelling on an equal footing. Nor does this road permit shortcuts. History is neither a gallery of national heroes nor a calendar of outstanding events: history is made by people day by day. In this context, we upon whom our peoples have conferred the task of governing have a very demanding responsibility ahead of us. And that is because governing means managing with efficiency and transparency: it means articulating in a democratic fashion this rich and complex network that is society. But to govern means also to envisage the future and to call upon people to build that future among all and for all. Our greeting is hopeful as well. Although we do not overlook the risks, the difficulties and the limits within the national, regional and global contexts, we believe in human beings, we believe in society. We believe in democracy as a means to govern but also as a human impulse and as a state of society. Although I said this during our statement at the High-level Plenary Meeting which took place in this same Hall a few hours ago, I wish to reiterate before the Assembly that the Eastern Republic of Uruguay reaffirms the principles that have characterized its foreign policy. First is the firm commitment to peace, sovereignty, democracy and solidarity. When I speak about peace, democracy, solidarity and freedom I would like to recall that six days ago marked the thirty- second anniversary of the occasion when a man gave his life defending peace, democracy and freedom. I would like thus to pay tribute to Salvador Allende. The second principle is the firm rejection of any kind of terrorism, violence and discrimination. The third is the inalienable right of every State to safe and stable borders and to be completely free to exercise its sovereignty and self-determination, and fourth is respect for international law as the best guarantee of the sovereignty of peoples and their peaceful coexistence. 28 The fifth principle is non-alignment and non- intervention in affairs that come under the domestic jurisdiction of States. Sixthly, we reaffirm multilateralism as a means to strengthen international law, enhancing the role of the United Nations. Seventh, we acknowledge the indivisibility of all human rights, be they political, social, economic, civil or cultural, including those of a collective nature such as the right to development and to a safe environment. In conformity with these principles, Uruguay first of all deems it necessary to move forward with the reforms that will allow the United Nations to fully fulfil its commitments. Because such reforms are of a complex nature, they should be undertaken with a sense of history and with political will, and without hegemonic intentions. Secondly, Uruguay renews its commitment to the Millennium Goals, which in our country means the design and implementation of a system of integrated and global social policies that address the poverty and destitution suffered by almost one million Uruguayans and that, at the same time, are part of a strategy of change and development. Thirdly, Uruguay reiterates its will to continue participating in United Nations peacekeeping operations and will contribute its efforts to improving the security and the conditions of service of those missions. We also express our support for the Secretary- Generalís initiative to create a Peace Commission, to which, we believe, Uruguay could contribute, continuing its support for peacekeeping missions and the expertise acquired in rebuilding devastated countries. There is no peace in intolerance and terrorism, no freedom in poverty, and no democracy in inequality. It is crucial to reject every expression of violence, but before rejecting it, it must be avoided by attacking its roots. This is quite simply because every human being, simply by being human, has the right to live in dignity. Societies where there is a contrast between an opulent few and a neglected majority are not prosperous. Societies where to be born is a problem, to be young is suspect, to get an education and a job is a privilege and to grow old is a curse have no future. This is the way we see it in Uruguay. We have learned this from those generations that preceded us in building a country that, though it has its own unique features, is not atypical of nor alien to the Latin American context. While it is true that the first half of the last century was a favourable period for Uruguay, it is also true that - due to a combination of external circumstances and domestic structural weaknesses - the last fifty years were a period of economic deterioration, impoverishment and even an institutional breakdown in 1973. We Uruguayans regained democracy in 1985, and the current Government, which took office exactly 200 days ago, is working hard to heal the wounds dictatorship caused through human rights violations. We are not hostages to the past, but Uruguayan society needs to know the truth about what happened to ensure that never again will it happen - never again. Nevertheless, with the commitments that we have assumed to Uruguayan society - whose will is our mandate ó the Government of which I am head is promoting changes: changes which are necessary, possible, responsible and gradual, changes with political and social support, changes that do not overlook reality but do not give up on the dream of a Uruguay with human development, with productive economic growth and with a safe environment, a Uruguay fully integrated into its own region and into the international arena. We are not starting from scratch, but we have a lot to do to achieve this utopia, the dream of which motivates us as a nation. In conclusion, this is exactly what I wished to convey to members on behalf of the Government and the people of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay: far away, in the forgotten southern part of South America, there is a country that does not resign itself to difficulties, that is building its own destiny and that, faithful to its tradition, wishes to join in building a better world, working alongside all our dear brethren, the citizens of the world.Malaysia, as the Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement and in its own name, wishes to convey our congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as the President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I am confident that, under your able stewardship, the work of the Assembly will reach a successful conclusion. I wish to assure you of the fullest cooperation of the Non-Aligned Movement and of the Malaysian delegation. Let me also pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for his dedication and for the successful manner in which he conducted the work of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session, which was an exceptionally challenging one. The consultations and negotiations led to the successful adoption of the final outcome document at the world summit last Friday. Six decades ago, the peoples of the world, including those under oppression and colonialism, celebrated the creation of the United Nations. The United Nations, as envisaged by its founders, was a beacon of hope for the world following the death and destruction wrought by the Second World War. Malaysia fully and consistently subscribes to the centrality of the United Nations and thus to the multilateral principles which have allowed the evolution of an international order predicated on rule- based interaction among States, thus creating a predictable and stable international environment. Without multilateralism, small or weak States could not hope for a democratic international order within which they could aspire to independence, peace and stability, development and prosperity. Today, even as we meet here, multilateralism has come under increasing threat. We believe that attempts to unilaterally rewrite or redefine the normative framework is a dangerous experiment. Without the stabilizing effect of such a framework, we would only create uncertainty and confusion in the international order. 22 The challenge confronting humankind in our time is to address, comprehensively and collectively, the multifaceted threats to our survival and well-being in the areas of peace and security, poverty and development, human rights and democracy. In that regard, the outcome document has sought to give a fresh lease on life to multilateralism, both in substance and in structure. As we continue our discussions to reshape and redirect the Organization, we must ensure that the General Assembly remains the true embodiment of the will of the world community. All of us must be committed to strengthening the General Assembly so that it reflects the true voice of democracy, transparency and accountability. At this juncture, let me voice Malaysia’s support for the checklist of items to be implemented during the current session, as mapped out by the Secretary-General in his address last Saturday. I hope that, by the time we meet again next year, the Secretary-General’s report will be able to illustrate a marked improvement in the world situation, in particular towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015 and the greater efficiency and effectiveness of the Secretariat. Driven by a common sense of purpose and determined political will, we must operationalize the commitments we have undertaken at the major United Nations conferences and summits of recent years. Our words must be matched by our actions. This must represent the beginning of the collective redoubling of efforts that is necessary to secure a more peaceful and just world. Where we had been unable to push the agenda on certain issues, we must now pursue them as part of an ongoing process in the reform of the United Nations. Where efforts to reach agreement have failed altogether, such as on the issue of disarmament and non-proliferation, we must now focus our energies in order to keep the issues alive until we achieve consensus. Malaysia is disappointed by the absence of any reference to disarmament and non-proliferation in the outcome document. I hope that this is not construed as a loss of interest by the international community or as an indication that it has since fallen off our radar of concern. Our collective call for nuclear-weapon States to effect complete and general disarmament as well as to ensure the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons must not be compromised. It is indeed regrettable that the 2005 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) earlier this year failed. That failure will intensify the adverse repercussions on the disarmament regime, painstakingly negotiated since the end of the Second World War. We must therefore, at this session, reiterate and, indeed, reaffirm the importance of the full and non-selective implementation of the three pillars of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, namely: nuclear disarmament, nuclear non-proliferation and the peaceful use of nuclear technology. We must also rededicate our efforts towards the total elimination of all weapons of mass destruction. The world spent an estimated $1 trillion on global military expenditures last year. Doubtless, much of that went to strengthening the military arsenals of States that feel constantly under threat; yet some of that must also have been contributed by terrorists purchasing arms for their condemnable acts. The sale of small arms and light weapons has wrought untold suffering on unsuspecting peoples everywhere. The international community must collectively call on States to divert such military spending to achieving the Millennium Development Goals and to strengthening the development infrastructure. This would go far towards creating a just and equitable order, which in turn would lead to a safer world. Since the adoption of the MDGs five years ago, the burdens and obstacles faced by developing countries seem to have increased, with almost no amelioration of the problems that already existed at the time. Eight years ago, East Asia was battered by a financial crisis, which in turn had trans-regional repercussions, adversely affecting the health of the global economy. Appeals by developing countries to reform the international financial architecture fell on deaf ears. As a result, the international financial architecture continues to be vulnerable to similar crises. Now, even as that and other equally important problems remain unresolved, we are faced with yet another threat — a prolonged and sustained increase in oil prices, which, even as we speak, threatens to imperil the global economy. Continuous increases in oil prices are placing a disproportionate burden on developing countries, thereby impoverishing them even further. It is morally reprehensible that the poor are 23 expected to absorb the cost of instabilities of production. In many quarters of the global community, the unbridled free market in particular is viewed as rapacious and unfeeling. If the United Nations is to remain relevant to the world at large, it must be able to discuss and decide on precisely issues such as these, which not only have an impact on our day-to-day lives but also have long-term implications, including for peace and security. If wars in the past were fought over ideology, conflicts in the future will be due to competition for markets and scarce natural resources, blurring the lines between economics, development and security. Accordingly, the United Nations must be prepared to address the interrelated and cross-cutting issues that give rise to such conflicts. Globalization, with its myriad challenges and opportunities, has left many in the developing countries unable to compete in an open and free-market system. Following the current trajectory, the international economic system will continue to remain unjust, punishing the poor for being unable to influence, much less dictate, their destinies. Much remains to be done to equalize the field between the rich and the rest. Aid and debt cancellation, while they are welcome and reduce the burden on developing countries, have in the long term only limited effect. It is trade that needs to be expanded and made more fair and equitable. We must press ahead towards a universal, rule-based, open, non-discriminatory, fair and equitable multilateral trading system. It is widely recognized that trade has a multiplier effect and is able to lift poor communities towards becoming self- sustaining ones. Trade can create competitive markets that benefit all. Malaysia condemns all acts, methods and practices of terrorism. As terrorism is a global phenomenon that transcends national boundaries, fighting terrorism demands effective international action in accordance with the Charter and universally recognized principles of international relations and international law. In countering terrorism, the use of conventional military force alone is insufficient. To truly address the scourge and prevent its re-emergence elsewhere over time, we must deal with the root causes of terrorism in order to provide a lasting solution that will deny those committing such acts of violence sympathy and keep them from gaining new recruits. While countering their actions, we must at the same time win the hearts and minds of the people in order to ensure that our victory will not be short-lived. No one group acting alone will be able to achieve total success. Clearly, success requires a sense of common purpose. The portrayal of any particular grouping of peoples as fanatical terrorists led by a religion of war is, therefore, irresponsible and would derail any attempt at forging a common and united front against terrorism. It is our collective duty to respond effectively to the legitimate grievances of affected communities, wherever they may be, so as to overcome their feelings of marginalization, deprivation, oppression and injustice. The international community as a whole must take a stand to stop actions that contribute directly or indirectly to the perpetuation of injustice, oppression or aggression. Misunderstanding and fear of “the other” must be replaced by respect, dialogue, understanding and tolerance. In this context, we can build a universal culture that respects diversity so that goodwill and harmony can thrive. The interests and concerns of minority groups must not be sidelined in favour of the majority. Minorities too have rights that must be protected by their Government. Over time, the grievances of minority groups over their being sidelined will necessarily seek an outlet. There is a national as well as an international dimension to the issue of peaceful and cooperative co- existence. Understanding and respect between religions, cultures and civilizations become necessary prerequisites for dialogue and the avoidance of conflicts. If Governments can succeed in instituting a culture of tolerance and moderation among people at the domestic level, it will become easier for nation States to cooperate in promoting tolerance and moderation among nationalities and cultures at the international level. We must institute the precepts of justice, respect and understanding in our day-to-day dealings. This would, in turn, lead to fairness, goodwill and harmony in our relations. The ideas of good governance, democracy and accountability to God and our peoples are not antithetical to Islam. They are clearly embodied in the Koran and the traditions of the Prophet Mohammed. For our own part in Malaysia, we believe that the 24 obligation to act based on religious imperatives can be directed towards good, progress and development. We call this approach Islam Hadhari, literally civilizational Islam, which is an approach towards a progressive and humanistic civilization that is consistent with the objective of creating a stable international world order. The approach that Malaysia has taken emphasizes that progress, development, knowledge and good governance as enshrined in the teachings of Islam, are compatible with modernity and yet are firmly rooted in the ethical, moral and universal values that will guarantee the future of humankind. It is an approach that values substance over form and promotes tolerance and understanding, moderation and peace, and certainly, enlightenment. In our preoccupation with the reform of the United Nations, we must not lose sight of the need to address and resolve, on a priority basis, one of the most important outstanding issues confronting this Organization: the question of Palestine. While we all welcome the Israeli withdrawal from Gaza, it should be part of the Road Map and should be quickly followed by similar measures in the West Bank. The issue of settlements must not be left unresolved, including in and around Jerusalem, as well as the construction of the Separation Wall, which has already been pronounced illegal by the International Court of Justice. Such activities must cease forthwith. The international community, particularly the United Nations, must continue to remain engaged with this issue until the goal of an independent and sovereign State of Palestine is realized. Rich or poor, strong or weak, whatever our religion or belief, one fact is inescapable: we inhabit one world, our global village. Sixty years ago, the founders of our universal Organization came together after witnessing horrors hitherto unimaginable and said that never again could human life be so wantonly extinguished. They also proclaimed that humankind would forevermore work and live together in peace, harmony and common respect. On this historic occasion, my plea is that we return to those hopes and ideals.I wish first of all to express my sincerest congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. I wish you success in performing this historic and humanitarian mission in the best interests of humanity at large. I wish also to express my appreciation to Mr. Jean Ping for his efforts in the framework of that same mission and goals during the previous session of the Assembly. I come from Iraq, the cradle of civilization, a meeting place for a variety of nationalities, religions, creeds and political ideas. I come from a rich and 36 fertile land which has throughout its honourable past given the blood of its children, such as Al-Hussein and subsequently Al-Sadr, to protect freedom and human rights. This is a unique opportunity for me to make heard the strong voice of Iraq. The dictatorship that ruled Iraq in the past tried to silence that voice by sowing death and destruction. Mass graves testify to that. Today it is the terrorists who are trying to silence that voice. I have come here to deliver to the Assembly a message from my nation, to convey the real picture of the new Iraq that is emerging, the power of its determination and its profound love and feelings towards all other nations. Iraq is now dealing with various new realities. Today ó released from the restraints of a 35-year dictatorship that imposed on Iraq one political, security, media and economic option and engendered a real Calvary of suffering for its people ó Iraq is witnessing a different, multifaceted reality. Throughout that period of great suffering and while the world stood idly by, all kinds of crimes and suppression were committed against Iraqis, Iraqi wealth and resources, the environment, education, the justice system, culture and civilization. With the recent successful conclusion of our political journey - in record time and in spite of all the obstacles and challenges facing it - the Iraqi people can justly be proud of their country and identity today. Beginning with the elections on 30 January 2005 and the formation of the Government on 3 May, and despite all the challenges faced over the past three months, a draft constitution was written and will be presented to the Iraqi people for a vote on 15 October. That referendum will allow the Iraqi people to express its will and allow it to constitutionally establish the rule of law and to create a State in which there is equality for all Iraqis. The constitution will allow law and order, justice and equality for all Iraqis. Iraqi women will be able to participate actively in political life and will have their rights restored, including the same right that men have to pass on their nationality to their children. The constitution grants religious freedom, freedom of speech, and the right to federal and regional autonomy. We are marching resolutely towards political stability and economic prosperity and regaining security and stability. While there were 61 terrorist car bombings in July, that number dropped to nine in August and September. Likewise, the number of assassinations decreased from 225 to nine in the past two months. On 9 September the Iraqi military attacked terrorist hubs in Talafar to restore security and stability there. Our forces adhered to strict rules of conduct, doing their best to protect innocent civilians in that town. Feeling the force of that operation, the terrorists fled to commit more crimes ó this time in the brave and heroic city of Khadimiya, where over 160 civilians were killed on 14 September. The Iraqi forces continue to build, to train and to be equipped so that they can take control of all internal security matters and do not have to depend on the multinational forces for their security. However, even though some Iraqi cities are already prepared for it, the time has not come for the Iraqi forces to be completely independent. When we are ready and self-sufficient, we will ask the multinational forces to leave our cities. The new political life in Iraq is committed to freedom of the press, freedom of expression, the separation of the legislative, executive, and judiciary powers and the reconstruction of Iraq, as well as to realize the aspirations of the Iraqi people to development and progress. Oil production and exports have increased along with the number of employment opportunities, income and trade exchange for Iraqis. More is being accomplished in public services and in health care and ambitious projects are under way to reconstruct our infrastructure, especially in the areas of home and road construction. Environmental bureaux have now declared the Iraqi provinces to be free from radioactivity. I therefore seize this opportunity to urge creditor nations to help us by cancelling Iraqi debt or loans. That debt was accumulated under the corrupt policies of the previous regime and the Iraqi people have had no hand in it. For Iraq to recover its role in the international community and to participate effectively in defending international peace and security and to combat the evil scourge of terrorism, it must be allowed to rebuild and to implement plans for the development, rehabilitation and the rebuilding of its infrastructure. I call on the donor countries to meet their commitments undertaken at different international conferences, including in 37 Madrid, Brussels and, most recently, Jordan, to provide financial aid to Iraq. Iraq would like to pay tribute to the constructive role of the United Nations in its special efforts to help the Iraqi people through the special envoy of the Secretary-General and the technical election assistance team. While we highly appreciate those efforts, we are also looking forward to having the United Nations return to Iraq and reopen its offices and agencies in order to support the reconstruction and development process. We also call upon the international community to evaluate the need to adopt an international programme to protect and preserve the fine cultural and archaeological heritage and shrines of Iraq, whose cities are steeped in history, from Sumer and Babylon to the present. Today, Iraq is both a witness to and a victim of the cruel, vicious and merciless attacks of international terrorists, who began their global campaign on 11 September 2001. Alarm bells are ringing in different capitals around the world ó in Spain, Britain, Turkey, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia - as we have all witnessed. Iraq was afflicted with that scourge under Saddamís regime, whose policy was to rule or destroy people and property with all types of lethal weapons. Today the Iraqi people are paying the price of countering terrorism, because it is their homes that are on the frontlines of the battle. The world must support Iraqis in fighting the war against terrorism and the remnants of the Baath regime so that it can move towards democracy. In order to deal effectively and radically with terrorism, we must agree on a definition of a number of elements that are closely related to it, including suicide and the culture of terrorism, the financing of terrorism, advocacy and propaganda that attempt to legitimize terrorism, perpetrators of terrorist acts and State terrorism. No country is free of terrorism today. Any country can be a victim of terrorism at any time. We all face this common threat. It brooks no boundaries; the geography of terrorism envelopes all humanity. We must therefore lend a hand to those who are paying the price of terrorism and to its victims. Because of the interdependence of nations, what happens in one country cannot fail to have repercussions in others. There is also a need to draw a distinction between natural disasters and terrorist disasters caused by man. The former are often uncontrollable. When they occur the entire world mobilizes to provide assistance to the affected countries, as we witnessed in the case of last Decemberís Asian tsunami and the recent Hurricane Katrina in Louisiana. But the calamities of terrorism, if allowed, will be as devastating as natural disasters. We need to raise awareness and work together to put an end to terrorism and to alleviate its destructive impact. In this regard, we want to express our warmest thanks to the people of the United States and to all the other peoples who have supported us. We must join efforts to triumph over terrorism, because those who win this victory will be able to help others as well. The Iraqi people are in the forefront of the counter- terrorism struggle. Why do those countries that send suicide bombers not send their young people to do humanitarian work to contribute to the reconstruction of Iraq instead of sending them to kill children, to destabilize Iraq and its security? Why do they not send funds to invest in Iraq, so that the common interests of our peoples and theirs may be achieved and so that the stay of the multinational forces may be shortened? Why do the news agencies in these countries not relay the achievements of the new Iraq and convey the real picture of the terrorist offensive, which targets popular markets and civilian gatherings, instead of inciting media reports that distort facts and falsify realities? But prior to that, we call upon neighbouring countries to stand by our people and prevent terrorists from entering Iraq, and to commit themselves to protecting our common borders for the safety and well-being of our peoples. We seek to establish the best possible relations with all countries, especially neighbouring ones, in order to promote the best interests of all and to safeguard national sovereignty and protect it from any foreign interference. I would like now to touch on the most important political problems and the need for these problems to be resolved peacefully in accordance with international agreements and treaties. We call for a fair and just solution to the political problems in the Middle East, and in particular the Palestinian question, so that this region and all regions of the world will be free from weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons. We also must affirm the legitimate right of the Palestinian people to establish a sovereign State, ensuring them a life of dignity lived in freedom in a climate of peace in their own territory. We must all work to spread the 38 culture of love, peace and coexistence instead of the culture of hatred, war, vindictiveness and terrorism. Iraq, whose children aspire to political, economic, security and developmental reconstruction, wants fully to assume its responsibility, both regional and international, to safeguard peace and security throughout the region and in the world. Iraq pays tribute to the United Nations, which has provided the world with a broad umbrella to prevent wars and resolve conflicts. The world today is constantly changing, and this requires dynamic changes in the structure, decision-making and working methods of the United Nations so it can cope with new world realities and meet its obligations. Iraq is undergoing difficult times, but its aspirations are just and we therefore hope that you will give Iraq your support and that you will display solidarity with Iraq, especially as we are on the verge of adopting our permanent constitution, a constitution that can ensure independence and a life of democracy, coexistence, love and tolerance for all.I am indeed greatly honoured to join those who preceded me in congratulating the President on his election to the presidency of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. I assure him of Grenada's support as he guides the deliberations during this historic year towards the promotion and maintenance of international peace and security. My delegation would also like to express its appreciation to Mr. Jean Ping, who laboured assiduously during his presidency of the fifty-ninth session, for his tireless efforts in guiding the preparatory work for the High-level Plenary Meeting. In addition, Grenada commends the Secretary-General for his energetic pursuit of change at the United Nations. We subscribe to the Secretary-General's view that the world cannot be a safer place without development and poverty eradication. Permit me, at this juncture, to extend, on behalf of the Government and people of Grenada, empathy and profound sympathy to the Government and people of the United States of America, particularly those of the Gulf states, for the loss of life and severe destruction of property suffered as a result of Hurricane Katrina. When the Millennium Declaration was adopted, many viewed it as a landmark document containing the blueprint for the eradication of poverty and as a vehicle to transform the condition of humankind in the twenty- first century. While it did not take on the momentum that we had hoped for, we have now moved to review its implementation. This year, the outcome document adopted by heads of State and Government at the conclusion of the High-level Plenary Meeting gives us another chance to address in earnest the commitments that were made in the Millennium Declaration and at major United Nations conferences. Grenada is heartened by the recent renewal of commitment to development and security, including poverty eradication and the endorsement to positively transform the world for the betterment of our peoples. We also welcome the efforts made to address the special needs of Africa. Those are high ideals, but we are convinced that peace, security and prosperity can only be achieved globally with the commitment, 5 sacrifice and concerted, cooperative efforts of all Member States. We welcome the creation of a Peacebuilding Commission to ensure post-conflict recovery where it is most needed, and especially to focus on issues relating to women and children within that process. Grenada also supports the strengthening of the human rights machinery through the creation of a Human Rights Council, and we resolve to participate in the negotiations to establish a working mandate for that body during the sixtieth session of the Assembly. Grenada welcomes the outcome document's strong condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We regret, however, that there has been no meaningful progress on the issue of disarmament and non-proliferation and call for continued negotiations in that regard. Reform is vital in order for this unique Organization to reflect the aspirations of its 191 Member States. It is extremely important that the United Nations address the burning issues and realities that preoccupy the global community. Grenada fully supports the measures called for in the Secretary- General's report, 'In larger freedom' (A/59/2005), and remains convinced of the usefulness of addressing peace and security on a broad spectrum. Grenada agrees that Security Council reform is imperative. The Council must be expanded in a manner that will convince every region of the world that they have an active voice in one of the most important and powerful organs of the United Nations. Grenada, like the other countries of the English- speaking Caribbean, places a high priority on the reorganization of the Economic and Social Council. The Charter clearly designed the Economic and Social Council to address development. In the twenty-first century, therefore, the Economic and Social Council must have, as the outcome document states, a more focused agenda built around the major themes contained in the Millennium Declaration. The theme for this year's deliberations is well chosen and we accept the challenge to work towards that goal. Grenada hopes that United Nations reform and the implementation of the goals set out in the outcome document will come to fruition soon, in order to ensure a stronger Organization and a more just world. My country, Grenada, knows quite well the challenges faced by developing countries. In less than one year Grenada experienced two hurricanes, causing infrastructural damage amounting to 250 per cent of our gross domestic product (GDP), crippling the tourism sector, increasing unemployment to 31 per cent and having an immeasurable psychological and social impact on our population. Prior to those events, Grenada was well on track to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of universal primary education, lowering child mortality rates, and reducing the poverty rate by half. Also high on our country's agenda was the implementation of policies to combat diseases, including HIV/AIDS. Today, even with the most rigorous national efforts, if Grenada is to achieve the MDGs, it can only do so with substantial financial and technical assistance. Currently, countries of the Caribbean face growing unemployment and poverty because of the recent World Trade Organization ruling that resulted in the removal of preferential arrangements that once facilitated our trade. As a direct result, two of the industries most vital to the Caribbean ó bananas and sugar ó are rapidly declining, sending thousands to the bread line and abject poverty. Here, I would refer to the statement made yesterday by the Prime Minister of Saint Kitts and Nevis, which confirmed the effects that the demise of the sugar industry is having on his country. Countries of the Caribbean require more than just aid; for aid alone cannot eradicate poverty. What Caribbean countries desire most fervently are trading opportunities. We crave opportunities that will recognize the diversities and disparities in the economic world. Given our disadvantageous economies of scale, our limited land mass and our late admission into the international economic order, it is impossible to make progress without special concessions. Grenada has no desire to see its future generations become mendicants, seized by poverty and a lack of opportunities. The MDGs, as well as United Nations declarations, constitute a global partnership for development. Both the developed and developing countries are called upon to implement changes and adjust their modus operandi to advance a more secure and just world. 6 We applaud the European Union for its decision to increase its overseas development assistance to the recommended 0.7 per cent of their GDP. However, we urge them and other developed countries to continue to provide freedom in trade with developing countries, in order to facilitate the transfer of technology and to assist with our environmental protection. Those of us in the developing world have also given our commitment to devise national policies to improve the standard of living of our people, promote education, practice good governance and strive for better health care for all. That, however, is virtually impossible in the current international economic climate, as some international regimes seem committed to crippling the economies of developing countries, in particular those of the Caribbean. Hurricanes and other natural disasters add to the Caribbean region's challenges and remain a very real and formidable enemy. Grenada acknowledges that natural disasters are unavoidable phenomena that cannot be stopped. However, we can mitigate their effects, ease human suffering with sound measures and speed up recovery by designing mechanisms conducive to quick responses, particularly from the international community. From hurricanes to tsunamis, from floods to droughts, we have come to realize that natural disasters know no boundaries and do not differentiate between developed and developing countries. In the light of scientific predictions that indicate an increase in the frequency and intensity of natural disasters, we must address this matter and give disaster mitigation a high priority on our agenda. I recall that during his address to the Millennium Summit five years ago, the Prime Minister of Grenada, the Right Honourable Keith Mitchell, joined his colleagues in making a clarion call for the establishment of a disaster relief fund to facilitate quick responses to aid victims of hurricanes, earthquakes, volcanoes and other natural disasters that strike us with such frequency and ferocity. I wish to reiterate that call today in light of the realities that now surround us. Some countries, particularly small island developing States, are extremely vulnerable and can experience a complete reversal of economic, social, cultural and infrastructural progress with the passage of one natural disaster, as was evident when Grenada was struck by Hurricane Ivan in September of 2004. For small islands it is exceedingly difficult to stop the downward spiral that disasters can cause. Generally, recovery is virtually impossible without major international assistance. Grenada welcomes the reference made to the vulnerabilities of small island developing States. We look forward to the effective implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States in the very near future. Grenada implores Member States to support the call of small island developing States for special recognition of their vulnerabilities. In the same vein, I turn now to the issue of the Caribbean Sea. Our economies derive tremendous benefits from the resources of the Caribbean Sea. In fact, the annual estimate of the economic value to Grenada of production from the sea is more than 30 million Eastern Caribbean dollars. That is a contribution that we as a people strongly feel must be conserved, preserved, maintained and protected, not merely for this generation, but for future generations. I would like specifically to refer to the trans- shipment of radioactive materials through our waters, which continues to pose a tremendous threat to the human health, marine life, ecosystems, tourism and economies of the region. As has been repeatedly affirmed by Grenada and other Caribbean Community member States, that practice must stop. Grenada once again calls on those concerned to desist from such activity. We welcome the reference made in the outcome document in that regard, and further urge the international community to be more cognizant of the situation and its impact on our economies and our peoples. Since this matter is of grave importance to the Caribbean region, we will continue our efforts to have the Caribbean Sea designated as a Special Area in the context of sustainable development. Finally, judging from the commitments made over the past few days, it is clearly evident that Member States are willing to take up the challenge to implement the necessary reforms to strengthen this body. We too pledge our full support to that process, despite the bleak economic realities we currently face.In 1945, in the aftermath of a war that tore apart all the peoples of the world - a war during which the most basic human rights were violated - a few leading countries came together at the San Francisco Conference, here in the United States of America, and created the United Nations. Collective security had to be restored, human rights had to be reinstated and our world needed to move towards greater justice and freedom. Much has been achieved over the past 60 years. Today, our Organization consists of 191 Member States. We hope - and many heads of State or Government expressed this wish during the recent summit - that we are beginning a new phase in the quest for collective security and respect for human rights and in the fight against poverty and disease, which continue to affect so many peoples. To that end, the international community must be better represented, particularly in the Security Council. Further progress must also be made through the establishment of the Human Rights Council, the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) to combat poverty and the more efficient management of the Organization. Once again, on behalf of His Serene Highness Prince Albert II, I wish to pay tribute to the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session and to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency at the sixtieth session. I hope that, throughout our debates at this session, the momentum for change will continue to build. I would also like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, who has pursued those noble objectives with tenacity and farsightedness. The Principality of Monaco fully endorses the outcome document, and will support its implementation so that we can, together, achieve new progress in the coming months. The Government of the Principality of Monaco has, over the past few years, reoriented its international cooperation policy in order to contribute more effectively to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. Thus, the main focus of Monacoís cooperation policies are those defined in the framework of the Millennium Development Goals: the preservation of the environment in the broad sense of the term; the fight against poverty; and support for education and health care. Monaco's official development assistance (ODA) has continued to increase, multiplying fivefold in the past 10 years - an effort that will continue in the years to come with a view to reaching the 0.7 per cent target as soon as possible. Likewise, we endorse the Declaration on innovative sources of financing for development. Through its voluntary contributions to the United Nations and several other institutions and agencies, 34 including the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the World Health Organization, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, UNICEF, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, to name but a few, the Principality sponsors activities aimed at assisting developing countries and the most underprivileged populations. Over one third of our cooperation funding is provided within the framework of multilateral assistance, and the increase over the past few years has, of course, also benefited bilateral assistance. The General Assembly proclaimed 2005 as the International Year of Microcredit in an effort to promote such programmes globally. The Principality has, for many years, accorded special attention to microcredit, as part of our financing for development programme, in particular through its cooperation with UNDP. In this regard, funds provided by Monaco provide support for small businesses in Africa that are operating under conditions of extreme poverty, with a view to improving the standard of living of the most vulnerable people, particularly women. Our cooperation efforts are directed mostly towards the countries of the Mediterranean region and the least developed countries in Africa, especially those of sub-Saharan Africa, because we also believe that we need to open up spaces for regional solidarity throughout the world. The Mediterranean is an ecoregion with which the Principality has, historically, been closely involved. The implementation of cooperation plans to protect the Mediterranean environment, both coastal and marine, is therefore a priority. Monaco also provides assistance to a number of French-speaking countries in areas relating largely to poverty eradication, health care and education. Working in complementarity with the Government, Monacoís non-governmental organizations are also committed in those countries. I would like to underscore that the Principality is ready to participate, to the best of its abilities and within its financial means, in initiatives in the areas of health care and training. During his recent address from this rostrum, Prince Albert II expressed great sadness in connection with the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina in the United States. Almost one year ago, South-East Asia suffered an unprecedented natural disaster. The solidarity shown in the aftermath of that tragedy and the effectiveness of the response to it, on the part of not only humanitarian workers but also civil society, make it clear that the resources and the capacity do exist to allow for shared responsibility for the future welfare of the peoples to whom the Charter is dedicated. The Principality of Monaco has mobilized` its efforts by undertaking a great many private and public activities in this respect. The Principality of Monaco has always been a staunch defender of humanitarian law. We support in principle and on the basis of our convictions any action aimed at alleviating difficult situations resulting from natural or manmade disasters. The Principality of Monaco is a small State that enjoys a certain level of wealth. It cannot change the world on its own, but it intends to set an example in the field of cooperation. The creation of the Human Rights Council and the establishment of a Peacebuilding Commission will mark a turning point in the history of the Organization. Even more importantly, they represent a response to developments in multilateral relations. In keeping with the document just adopted, the General Assembly will also have to strengthen the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights; establish the rule of law assistance unit within the Secretariat; and work constructively to ensure that the emerging concept of responsibility to protect becomes positive law as soon as possible. In this regard, I would insist on the imperative need to put an end to impunity for crimes committed against children. The defence of the rights and interests of children has always been one of our major concerns. Indeed, any act of violence against a child is a violation of the lofty principles for which the United Nations stands. In order to build 'a world fit for children', in compliance with the measures adopted during the special session of the General Assembly on children, held in May 2002, the Government of the Principality is deeply dedicated to promoting the concept that there should be no statute of limitations for the most serious violations of the rights of children, and that we should expand the 35 powers of national jurisdictions by providing them with universal competence in that area. Prince Albert II, during his address to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session, invited the international community to give thought to a plan to address the impunity that continues to prevail with regard to the most heinous crimes committed against children. In that context, the Principality has stressed the promotion of that concept in the resolution on the Rights of the Child, adopted last year by the General Assembly, and it has reaffirmed its position during the session of the Human Rights Commission held last April in Geneva. It is the wish of the Principality to pursue its undertaking with the support of the international community on those crucial matters. In other respects, the Monegasque Government has paid close attention and contributed financially to the global study on violence against children led by Professor Pinheiro, which will present its conclusions in October 2006. Likewise, the Principality actively participated, along with the European Council, in the triennial programme of action - for the period 2005- 2007 - entitled 'Childhood and violence', whose conclusions, like that of the global study on violence against children, will enable us to make specific recommendations to States. The Principality of Monaco will always support all international initiatives aimed at enhancing the protection of children. Respect for the environment is also one of our concerns. Mr. President, it was in your country, Sweden, just over three decades ago that environmental law was born. The Stockholm Conference saw the emergence of a discipline that met a need: to address the protection of natural resources and of our environment in an organized manner. Furthermore, we have decided to join the Kyoto Protocol, and we hope, in the tradition of the Oceanographic Institute ó created 100 years ago by Prince Albert I of Monaco ó to make our contribution to studies on the future of our planet. However, the United Nations Environment Programme is no longer the ideal forum to coordinate action and ensure its effectiveness because of the extremely rapid expansion of this field and given the many conventions, protocols and agreements that have been adopted. That is why we support the idea of creating a United Nations environmental body. Globalization must not make us forget that we come from different regions and cultures that should enrich one another and not be a source of clashes or of conflicts. We believe in interaction between the United Nations and regional organizations; one sets the general rules, and the others facilitate their implementation at the local level. The reforms just adopted at the High-level Plenary Meeting strengthen the unique position of the General Assembly as the guarantor of the systemís coherence. I can assure the Assembly that Monaco will continue resolutely to make its contribution, however modest, to building a better world, with full respect for our differences.It is my pleasure to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your election to the Presidency of this session, which coincides with the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations. We hope that this important session will provide a historic opportunity to review and evaluate the achievements of this Organization and to formulate a political and development vision on strengthening our common action and our ability to maintain international peace and security and achieve sustainable development. The United Arab Emirates welcomes the Outcome Document of the High-level Plenary Meeting and considers it a positive step towards achieving the MDGs, especially those related to the four main fields, namely development, peace and collective security, human rights, rule of law and the strengthening of the United Nations. At the same time, we hope that our consultations on other unsolved issues will continue in order to reach an international consensus. In that context, we wish to reaffirm our position calling for the reform of the United Nations, including the increase of permanent and non-permanent membership of the Security Council, based on a system of equitable geographical distribution that ensures the transparency of the Council’s working methods. We emphasize the importance of reinforcing international commitment to the principles of international and humanitarian law and respect for the sovereignty of States, including their cultural and religious diversity and traditions. We also underline the need to respect the resolutions and recommendations of international legitimacy issued by world summits, including the Millennium Declaration. We affirm that the challenges of the twenty-first century, including poverty, illiteracy, epidemics, environmental degradation, global terrorism, organized crime and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, are by nature transnational and pose grave threats to all humanity. Therefore, while we supported the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission, which will assist countries recovering from civil and regional wars, we call for the utilization of our human cultures and beliefs in joint efforts to address such challenges, including the holding of an international conference on combating terrorism and its causes. Such a conference must provide a clear definition of terrorism, based on the principles of the United Nations Charter and international law and norms, and must distinguish between terrorism and the legitimate 25 struggle of peoples against foreign occupation. At the same time, we reaffirm our support for the proposal of the brotherly Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to establish an international centre to combat terrorism. Firmly convinced of the importance of adopting peaceful solutions in resolving disputes and issues of foreign occupation, particularly in the Middle East and the Arab Gulf region, the United Arab Emirates calls upon the Islamic Republic of Iran to respond to its peaceful initiatives aimed at resolving the issue of Iran’s occupation of the three islands of the United Arab Emirates — Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa — through bilateral negotiations or by referral to the International Court of Justice. In that context, we reaffirm that all actions taken by Iran since its illegal occupation of the three islands in 1971 are null and void, because they contradict the United Nations Charter, international law, the principles of good neighbourliness and the peaceful coexistence of nations and confidence-building measures. In the light of the impact of that important and delicate issue on the security and the stability of the Arab Gulf region and on the entire world, the United Arab Emirates, along with other countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council, looks forward to the Iranian Government’s review of its policy in that regard. We also hope that Iran will take a transparent and objective approach in its response to the repeated peaceful initiatives of the countries of the region, which call for the end of Iran’s occupation of the three islands belonging to the United Arab Emirates and the creation of a positive regional environment conducive to the strengthening of cooperation, good neighbourliness and mutual advantage among the region’s countries and to prosperity and stability for its peoples. We are hopeful that the political transition process in Iraq will be completed and, in that respect, we renew our support for all efforts made by the Iraqi Government to strengthen political dialogue among the various Iraqi factions, achieve national reconciliation and rebuild its national institutions so that Iraq can maintain its unity, territorial sovereignty, independence and stability, and can play its natural role in the region and the world. The United Arab Emirates welcomes Israel’s withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and parts of the northern West Bank and hopes that the international community will urge Israel to complete its withdrawal from the Arab and Palestinian territories occupied since 1967, including the Syrian Golan and the Lebanese Shaba’a farms, dismantle the separation wall and discontinue its settlement plans and activities, in accordance with the resolutions of international legitimacy, the Arab peace initiative based on the land- for-peace principle, and the Quartet’s road map. Furthermore, the international community must strengthen its support of the Palestinian Authority and help it rebuild its national institutions and exploit its natural and economic resources. We also demand that Israel accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and submit its nuclear facilities to the supervision of the International Atomic Energy Agency, in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions calling for the establishment of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons, in the Middle East and the Arab Gulf region. In spite of the progress made in science and information technology, the international community continues to face a growing economic gap between the North and the South. Therefore, we call for further international efforts to address that imbalance, including the greater participation of developing countries in decision-making in economic and trade matters, and for the commitment of industrialized States to continue their support for development programmes in the developing countries in order to create a fair and just international economic environment in which all peoples enjoy the benefits of prosperity, well-being and development. The United Arab Emirates has developed humanitarian and financial assistance programmes to assist developing countries and countries affected by conflicts, civil and regional wars and natural disasters. That assistance exceeds the percentage recommended by international conferences on development and the Millennium Development Goals. In that context, the United Arab Emirates has adopted multifaceted development policies and plans to keep pace with international economic and development changes. Those policies include human resources development, the opening of the country’s markets to foreign trade and the enhancement of the private sector’s role in national development. 26 In conclusion, we hope that our deliberations at this session will result in a positive outcome that strengthens our joint efforts to realize our peoples’ hope and ambition to live in a world in which security, stability, peace, freedom and justice prevail.It is with great honour that I take this floor before this Assembly. At the outset, I should like to congratulate the President, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Angola, for his election to the presidency of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly of our Organization. I also wish to express my appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for his commitment and for the transparent and efficient manner in which he presided over the fifty-ninth session of General Assembly. Today, 60 years after the foundation of the United Nations, humanity continues to face new and complex challenges. The continuation of armed conflicts, hunger, poverty, massive human rights violations, the spread of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, the scar of terrorism and the risk that non-State actors can acquire, develop and use weapons of mass destruction indeed constitute a threat to international peace and security. Therefore, the international community has every reason to act collectively to reform and strengthen the United Nations in order to render it better prepared to address the many and complex challenges we are facing. The Republic of Angola follows with great concern the developments in several areas of the world, particularly on the African continent. In spite of a relatively positive tendency characterized by a decrease in areas of tension in the world today, it is necessary to continue to pay special attention to the peace processes in various parts of the world, particularly in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Sudan and Guinea-Bissau, to mention only a few. Regarding Guinea-Bissau, my delegation is satisfied with the results achieved, and we commend the political maturity shown by the people of Guinea- Bissau during the transition period, particularly the civic responsibility demonstrated during the period of presidential elections. In this context, we believe that respect for the constitutionally established institutions of sovereignty is an indispensable condition for political stability. Only this will create a propitious environment for the accomplishment of tasks that guarantee the maintenance of peace and economic reconstruction. Such is the expectation of the Guinean people, who went to voting stations in such significant numbers. That is a vote for democracy. In that connection, we welcome the round table on Guinea-Bissau, scheduled for the month of November, and we urge donors to respond positively since the international community’s assistance remains a fundamental condition for the process under way. Regarding the process of consolidation of peace currently in progress in the Great Lakes region, Angola, in its capacity as a core country, is pleased with what has been achieved so far. We thank the Group of Friends, and particularly the Government of 35 Canada, for the support they have been providing, and especially for the second Great Lakes Conference, due to be held next November in Nairobi. Although we understand that the primary responsibility to prevent and resolve conflicts in Africa falls upon African States themselves, we share the notion that the international community should, in partnership with regional and subregional organizations, play a more significant role in the prevention and resolution of conflicts on the continent. Based on our own experience, we believe that in order for strategies for the prevention and resolution of conflicts to be successful, they should be based on an approach that is as inclusive as possible. In this connection, the cooperation of the key organs of the United Nations — the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council — is absolutely essential. The pertinent involvement of the international financial institutions, as well as the private and business sectors, has proven to be equally fundamental. For this reason, we support and welcome the decision of the High-level Meeting to create the Peacebuilding Commission. We are ready to work with partners towards rendering this organ operational as soon as possible. Angola supports the creation of the permanent fund for the consolidation of peace. We are also of the view that activities related to disarmament, demobilization and reintegration should be financed from the regular budget and attributed to peacekeeping operations. While the illicit exploitation of natural resources was not mentioned in the outcome document of the summit, we hope that during the current session of the General Assembly this issue will be given due consideration since it constitutes a fundamental element for the strategy of prevention and resolution of conflicts. Terrorism undoubtedly constitutes a permanent threat to the world that no country can face alone. Therefore, it calls for cooperation among all countries, with the United Nations playing the central role in the fight against it. In this connection, we join the Secretary-General’s plea for the conclusion, as urgently as possible, of the comprehensive convention against international terrorism, which would contain a universally accepted definition of the concept of terrorism. Five years since the adoption of the Millennium Declaration, the social and economic situation in several parts of the globe continues to be characterized by extreme poverty. As well-articulated mentioned by the Secretary- General in his report, “In larger freedom” (A/59/2005), poverty is not only about development; it is also a matter of security and respect for human rights, which are fundamental to the Millennium Development Goals. For this reason, I agree with several previous speakers that this issue in the outcome document ought to be dealt with in greater detail. Thus, we look forward to continuing our work in the relevant forums, in particular in a strengthened Economic and Social Council. The fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and other illnesses constitutes an indispensable condition for peace, stability and international collective security. For this reason, we urge the international community to redouble its efforts in mobilizing the required resources for the prevention and treatment of these illnesses. Let me take this opportunity to express my Government’s appreciation to the United States for funding and initiating a programme to fight malaria in Angola, as well as in Tanzania and Uganda. In my delegation’s opinion, in order to meet the challenges facing the world, it is imperative that we proceed to the reform of the main organs of the United Nations, with a view to adapting them to the current reality. We will remain active in the process of reform of the United Nations, including the Security Council and the other primary bodies of our Organization. We share the opinion that the composition of the Security Council should properly reflect the present day political reality. Enlarging the Security Council would render it more transparent and more representative, with greater credibility and, in particular, greater authority in its decisions. Nevertheless, we would like to underline that the enlargement of the Council is just one aspect of the reform that needs to be completed. We should not underestimate other elements of Council reform that we consider no less important, such as the need to 36 improve and render more transparent its working methods. I am convinced that the results reached at the High-level Plenary Meeting during this session of the General Assembly will stimulate the continuation of the debate on the process of the reform itself. This will create a platform that will reinforce the Organization’s common vision and objectives: strengthening cooperation and providing greater assurances that international peace and stability can only be found in a reinforced multilateralism.At the very outset of my remarks, both on my own behalf and on behalf of the Haitian nation, I would like to express our sincerest congratulations to you, Sir, on your unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly at the sixtieth session. Your wealth of experience in matters of security, human rights and development augur well for the success of our discussions. I would also like to pay tribute to Jean Ping, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Gabon, whose moderation, sense of compromise and restraint won him universal respect and esteem during the previous session. May I also express my sincere gratitude to the Secretary-General for his tireless efforts in the cause of peace, democracy and development. That triad — peace, democracy and development — is now the new name for progress made by peoples and for stability in the world. It is in that context that, for more than a year now, the Organization has deployed the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH), which is helping to improve the security climate in the country. We requested the Mission because of our firm belief in international solidarity. We would like to take this opportunity to thank all those countries that have displayed their friendship to Haiti by contributing in one way or another to the deployment of MINUSTAH. From this rostrum, I would like to express my sincerest sympathy for the afflicted populations of the southern part of the United States of America that have been so tragically affected by the passage of Hurricane Katrina in August, one of the most devastating hurricanes ever to strike our continent. We would like once again to express to the Government and people of the United States our deepest compassion and our profound solidarity in these trying times. Our Organization is now 60 years old. The celebration of that anniversary will be a splendid extension of the High-level Plenary Meeting of heads of State or Government, which was intended as an initial stocktaking of the implementation of the commitments undertaken in the Millennium Declaration. The Government of Haiti supports the spirit of the text adopted on 16 September, which broadly reviews the minimum objectives that the international community intends to achieve by 2015. Likewise, the Republic of Haiti supports all steps taken to increase development assistance through the use of funds of solidarity at the international level. The Government of Haiti attaches the greatest importance to the proposal of the French Republic to create stable and lasting financing through innovative mechanisms in order to prevent and cure the major pandemics of our time. I am pleased to note that many of the world’s leaders have received that proposal with the greatest interest. We also welcome various other initiatives, including the United Kingdom proposal for an International Financial Facility, which arranges for borrowing on the financial markets to increase assistance to the poorest countries, in particular for the fight against HIV/AIDS. It deserves our consideration. However, those efforts may not achieve their objectives if a comprehensive solution to the debt problem of the countries of the South is not found. It would be a positive contribution to international security to solve the debt problem by cancelling the 8 debts of the least developed countries and helping those countries overcome their financial difficulties by assisting their development. The Republic of Haiti unreservedly supports all negotiated, effective, comprehensive and lasting initiatives of the United Nations aimed at solving the distressing debt problem of the peoples of the poor countries. On the sixtieth anniversary of our Organization, we should heed the many calls for the reform of the United Nations. Certainly, significant progress is being made, in particular the proposal to transform the Commission on Human Rights into a Human Rights Council. Chapter XIII of the Charter should be removed, along with the references to trusteeship contained in Chapter XII. With respect to the Security Council, the Republic of Haiti supports paragraph 153 of the outcome document, which proposes the early reform of the Security Council in order to make it more broadly representative, efficient and transparent and thus to further enhance the Council’s effectiveness and the legitimacy degree of implementation of its decisions. In that regard, I reaffirm the position of Haiti, as expressed by Prime Minister Gérard Latortue, in favour of correcting the historical error of not having a representative of the Latin American and Caribbean region among the permanent members of the Security Council. The Republic of Haiti is at the crossroads. In a few weeks, general elections will be held throughout the country to select the nation’s elected representatives at all levels. The elections are thoroughly inclusive. All sectors and all political parties without exception are participating. Admittedly, the road to completing the process has been difficult, marked by the outbreak of violence and feverish moments. Rediscovering freedom is not easy. During long months, the country has lived in a situation bordering on chaos, in which armed bands have held many of the capital’s neighbourhoods hostage and committed the worst atrocities. Fortunately, they have been, for the most part, held in check by the combined efforts of the Haitian National Police and the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH). Calm is gradually returning. I am convinced that the electoral campaign will take place in a peaceful climate, in spite of the large number of presidential candidates. At present, the horizon is brightening perceptibly, despite the desperate acts of ruthless gangs. Also, a national dialogue has been launched involving all relevant sectors of the country. The preparatory committee established for the purpose will shortly issue its report. In that context, the Government and the people of Haiti are grateful to the United Nations and friendly countries of all continents for their solidarity with Haiti and for their interest in the successful outcome of the present elections. Nothing can now stop the march towards pluralist and democratic elections, to be held in a climate of security ensured by the Haitian National Police, with the support of MINUSTAH. Haiti’s chronic political instability and serious socio-economic problems have compelled a great number of our fellow citizens to migrate to neighbouring shores considered to be more hospitable. However, tensions are now arising among a certain fringe sector of the local population of the host countries. We request the leaders of those countries to deal with that issue urgently in order to stop radicals from taking advantage of the situation and committing abuses against expatriate Haitians. For our part, we are open to all negotiations aimed at restoring calm and finding solutions in accordance with international treaties and rights related to immigration. At this decisive moment of the transition, we renew our appeal to the international community to visit us to observe the holding of the elections. We want transparent elections in which the candidates elected will not be challenged. We are grateful to the United Nations for the support that it is providing to Haiti during this critical period. I reiterate the solemn appeal that I made from this rostrum one year ago to the international community not to leave Haiti isolated, so that, on 7 February 2006, I can hand over power to a new, freely elected President, thereby placing Haiti once and for all in the community and comity of democratic nations; so that the Government which emerges from the elections can get down to the challenging task of economic reconstruction and social progress — with, of course, the resolute support and unflagging solidarity of the international community; so that Haiti can emerge from underdevelopment and extreme poverty, which provide fertile ground for all dictatorships; and so that the country can finally recover its unity and its soul. 9 In that spirit of solidarity and authentic cooperation — which is, after all, the raison d’être of the United Nations — the Republic of Haiti will work to achieve, between now and 2015, the Millennium Development Goals, to which all countries aspire.Permit me to join others in expressing, on behalf of our President, Mr. Leonel Fernández Reyna, our heartfelt congratulations to Ambassador Jan Eliasson of Sweden on his election as President of the General Assembly at this historic sixtieth session. The Dominican Republic is confident that he will lead it in an effective and fruitful manner. I also express my gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his most valuable contributions to the strengthening of the United Nations as an institution. In addition, I wish to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping of Gabon and to acknowledge his notable work in leading the most recent session. This sixtieth session of the General Assembly should go down in history as one of the most momentous United Nations sessions. Proof of that lies in two areas of major significance on its agenda: first, accountability with regard to the degree of achievement of the Millennium Development Goals and renewal of the commitments made to achieve them; and secondly, setting out the course for reform of the Organization to adapt it so that it can address current challenging problems and guarantee the effectiveness of its actions in order to ensure the development, freedom and peace of all the world’s peoples. For nations such as the one I represent, the ambitious agenda aimed at achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015 has become the key governmental programme. What could be more important to small underdeveloped nations with scarce natural resources than leading their people out of the socio-economic abyss caused by poverty, poor health and the lack of education and productive employment? No political action is more urgent — at least not in the Dominican Republic. Eliminating poverty in the world is a monumental task requiring unstinting political commitment and the collective participation of all societies, as well as unlimited economic support from the developed nations. The heartbreaking realities of the present are morally unacceptable in a world with humankind at its centre; they underline the flawed nature of the zero- sum policies practised in the past, when the great Powers dedicated themselves to amassing wealth by exploiting the riches of poorer, weaker nations. Widespread poverty is not good for poor nations, and even less so for rich nations. As all know, poverty leads to despair, violence and chaos. That, in turn, produces unbearable social and political tensions and the outbreak of conflicts, leading to failed States. When a State fails, the conflict raging within spills over into regional conflicts or prompts endless, unstoppable waves of migrants. In today’s world, a failed State eventually becomes an issue before the United Nations, requiring attention and solutions. 5 When one has examined how that chain of events works, it becomes clear that achieving the Millennium Development Goals is crucial. Allow me to underline the following. It is alarming that in 2015, the year in which the Millennium Development Goals are to be achieved, the production of oil — the fuel that enabled the world to achieve spectacular growth over the past 100 years — is projected to begin to decline dangerously. To foresee the future, one has only to take a good look at the present. All the world’s Governments face difficulties caused by high oil prices, and we are all aware that this time, unlike the oil shock of the 1970s, the present reduction in the flow of oil could become permanent. I emphasize this because, owing to that situation, our nations risk facing endless difficulties on all fronts. It is disturbing that this should happen precisely when we are making enormous efforts to overcome the obstacles preventing us from creating a dignified, free and safe society for our peoples. The predicted global crisis could bring an ongoing reduction in oil production, immediately causing higher oil prices. The catastrophic effects that would produce cannot be ignored today. We have known for a long time that oil would not last forever. Now is the time for the United Nations to launch an initiative, much broader in scope than the Millennium Development Goals, to chart a course guiding Member States to a civilization not dependent on oil. My country, the Dominican Republic, shares the small Caribbean island of Hispaniola with Haiti. It has to be said that, historically, the problems on one side of the border have tended to become problems for the other side. Haiti, a country with a 200-year history of independence, is a fractured nation today. Amid insurmountable economic difficulties and all types of social shortfalls, its political conflicts weakened its institutions, and the State collapsed. Today’s transitional regime, without enough resources to function properly, is, with the support of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti, striving greatly to rebuild what was destroyed, and the international community has put great hope in restoring legitimate political authority through the holding of elections. In the General Assembly and elsewhere, many have said that they believe that the electoral process in Haiti should not have been given top priority; rather, top priority should have gone to humanitarian assistance and job creation by means of a massive programme for building infrastructure such as roads, water supply systems, schools, hospitals and electric generators. However, past experience in the process of rebuilding failed States points to the priority need to legitimize new political leadership through elections, even though we know that in such cases, the ideal framework for holding elections cannot be achieved. That is why, on behalf of my country’s President, Mr. Leonel Fernández Reyna, I propose that the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti, with the support of the Transitional Government of Haiti and the international community, should carry out — as they have been doing — a broad national dialogue to reach general agreement between the political forces and the organized sectors of Haitian civil society. Such an agreement would ensure national reconciliation and prepare the way for a national reconstruction plan that has the support of all Haitian leadership. All Haitian civil society and political leadership have important roles to play in their country’s institutional reconstruction, and all must fulfil those responsibilities. We cannot ignore the fact that in recent years, the Haitian people have been living in fear, insecurity, poverty and despair. For recovery to take place, the people need to have confidence in the process of peace, reconciliation and the rebuilding of State institutions. In addition, President Fernandez proposes that the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) invite distinguished world leaders to be present during the elections in Haiti, in order to give more credibility to the electoral process. Among these statesmen, the Dominican Republic takes the liberty of suggesting Presidents Fox of Mexico and Lula da Silva of Brazil, the former Presidents of the United States of America, Mr. Carter and Mr. Clinton, and the legendary former President of South Africa, Nelson Mandela. Elections are the first important political step to help Haiti back on its feet. We are not under the illusion that elections alone will guarantee security, ensure the reign of democracy in the immediate future or produce an overnight improvement in the living conditions of Haitians. 6 Our own experience has taught us that the road to democracy will be a long one, as it has been for the nations that today function within the framework of democratic institutions. And the road towards development will be even longer but more secure, if tensions are reduced, a climate of cooperation is fostered and if donor nations and institutions faithfully fulfil their generous promises of financial support for Haiti in a timely manner. On the subject of peace, security and dialogue, we want to comment on two items that are very high on the international political agenda. First, the progress made in the peace process between Israel and the Palestinian National Authority. Secondly, the recent natural disasters in Asia and now in the United States of America are forcing us to think about the vulnerability of nations to the potentially dangerous, manmade changes in the balance of nature when faced with these types of events. We sincerely regret the loss of life due to Hurricane Katrina. In conclusion, I would like to say that we must not lose time. Let us act today, as if this were our last opportunity to reach a consensus and formulate action to turn sustainable development into a collective achievement in order to ensure world security and progress together on the road to peace.At the outset, I should like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. My delegation is confident that your knowledge and vast professional experience will ensure strong and competent leadership of the Assembly. Let me also pay well-deserved tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, whose tireless efforts guided Member States through the difficult negotiations that resulted in the adoption of the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting. A few days ago, speaking from this rostrum, President Vladimir Voronin of the Republic of Moldova reaffirmed my country’s unwavering support for the United Nations and its commitment to work together with other Member States to renew and strengthen the United Nations system. We need an effective United Nations, a richly diverse organization that is united in its resolve and able to address the challenges and threats confronting the contemporary world. The 2005 World Summit Outcome provides a fair assessment of the threats and challenges facing us in the areas of peace, security, development and human rights and rightly emphasizes their interconnected nature. World leaders agreed on a number of concrete actions and steps that need to be undertaken in all those areas. Those measures might not meet everyone’s expectations, but they reflect a degree of consensus that is both challenging and inspiring. Since one of the world summit’s aims was to assess implementation of the Millennium Declaration, it is heartening to see the strong and unambiguous commitment of donor and developing countries to achieving the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. The measures outlined in the areas of financing for development, debt cancellation, trade promotion, investment and other specific areas of development need to be fully implemented. Developed and developing countries must build their declared global partnership for development on the basis of mutual trust and respect, while the effectiveness and quality of aid can be ensured through a balance of appropriate financing, good governance and sound policies. In the area of peace and security, the Republic of Moldova welcomes the unequivocal condemnation of terrorism and supports the call to conclude and agree on, during the current session of the General Assembly, a comprehensive convention on international terrorism containing a legal definition of terrorism. During the 2005 summit, the Republic of Moldova signed the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, which is further proof of our ongoing commitment to multilateral efforts aimed at 28 strengthening the United Nations counter-terrorism legal framework. My country welcomes the decision to create a Peacebuilding Commission, which it considers to be one of the main achievements of the summit. As envisioned, that body has the potential to bring much- needed coherence to our strategies for post-conflict peacebuilding and recovery, provided that we succeed in making it operational by the end of this year. Unfortunately, the outcome document pays far less attention to conflict prevention and conflict resolution, especially with regard to internal conflicts. Many regional organizations have been entrusted, under the provisions of Chapter VIII of the Charter, with dealing with a number of conflicts that are at the centre of the Security Council’s attention. But, as the report of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change (A/59/565) rightly pointed out, the efforts of regional organizations do not absolve the United Nations of its primary responsibilities for peace and security. The United Nations needs to reach out more systematically to those regional organizations, and steps should be taken to increase their accountability, particularly in the case of protracted or frozen conflicts, where a situation does not improve or even worsens over the years. We would also like to recall the High-level Panel’s proposals aimed at enhancing the capabilities and the role of the United Nations in conflict mediation, which were set aside in the discussions. One of those proposals was to give the Department of Political Affairs additional resources and to restructure it in order to provide more consistent and professional mediation support. No conflict in the world should be left without the attention of the United Nations, regardless of whether it is on the Security Council’s agenda or not. Like many Member States, we regret the failure to reach agreement on a section on non-proliferation and disarmament in the summit outcome document. But that must not preclude further common efforts to build consensus around the global nuclear non- proliferation regime and the pursuit of nuclear disarmament. We appreciate the outcome document’s support for the implementation of the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. But to make a real difference, Member States should expedite and conclude negotiations on legally binding agreements on the marking and tracing of small arms and light weapons, as well as their brokering and transfer. The Republic of Moldova fully endorses the commitment to create a Human Rights Council. We look forward to speedy and productive negotiations on the Council’s mandate, size, membership and working procedures. We have high expectations of that standing body’s ability to protect and even enforce respect for fundamental human rights, especially in cases of humanitarian crimes and violations in conflict zones outside the control of sovereign States. My country also supports the decision to strengthen the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and its field offices. As a country that has placed the concepts of democracy and rule of law at its core since gaining independence, the Republic of Moldova welcomes the reaffirmation of democracy as a universal value in the outcome document and the creation of the new Democracy Fund. The success of United Nations reform depends on the ability of Member States to implement measures that revitalize the General Assembly and enhance the effectiveness of the Economic and Social Council and the Secretariat. Although the issue of the enlargement of the Security Council proved to be highly divisive, an enormous amount of work has been done to explore different options. We all agree that the expanded Council should be representative, efficient and transparent. We should continue to seek consensus based on those principles. The triangle of development, peace and freedom is of direct relevance to the Republic of Moldova. Our young democracy is struggling with the difficulties of transition and suffers — as it has for more than 13 years — from a protracted, unsolved conflict inspired and supported from abroad. It sees the fundamental freedoms of a significant number of its citizens violated by an aggressive separatist regime. As representatives of my country have stressed in the Assembly over the years, settling the internal conflict in the Transnistrian region of the Republic of Moldova is our greatest priority. Separatism is not only the main threat to our country’s peace and security; it is also the main obstacle to the further consolidation of 29 the independence and the statehood of the Republic of Moldova and a hindrance to its economic development. The reintegration of the country, with respect for the principle of territorial integrity and sovereignty, is a prerequisite for a stable and prosperous Republic of Moldova able to achieve its internal and external strategic objectives. The Republic of Moldova has worked faithfully and constructively towards that end for many years, looking for a peaceful, just and lasting solution to political conflict and fostering dialogue with the self- appointed Transnistrian leaders, with the help of mediating countries and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). Unfortunately, all efforts have been in vain and have only demonstrated the ineffectiveness of the old format. With support and encouragement from abroad, the separatist leaders have been using the negotiation process to claim legitimacy for themselves as the representatives of the will of the inhabitants of the Transnistrian region of the Republic of Moldova, and have promoted the idea of a pseudo- State, for which there are no ethnic, religious or other plausible grounds. In the meantime, the region has become a centre of illegal and criminal economic activity, trafficking, arms production and proliferation and a threat to the stability and security of that part of the European continent. The region’s multinational population lives under constant pressure from the separatist regime’s propaganda and under the surveillance of its security structures. The people of the region are constantly being intimidated and harassed. That situation cannot go on indefinitely. There is a growing sense of urgency in Moldovan society, expressed in the unprecedented consensus and the resolve of all political parties with respect to the ways and means of settling the conflict. Political momentum is growing, as Ukraine has advanced a new plan for a settlement. Following that development, the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova passed several laws related to the Ukrainian plan, including the law on fundamental regulations of the special legal status of settlements on the left bank of the Nistru River — Transnistria — of 22 July, 2005. The Republic of Moldova has been calling for a number of concrete actions to create the conditions for a lasting solution to the conflict, including the following elements. First, our Government has called for the complete, unconditional and transparent withdrawal of foreign troops and munitions from the territory of Moldova, in accordance with the relevant decisions of the OSCE Istanbul Summit. The foreign military presence is used as external pressure and provides a political shield for the separatist authorities. Secondly, it has called for the establishment of transparent and effective control over the Transnistrian segment of the Moldovan-Ukrainian border. We highly appreciate the decision of the European Union to assist in monitoring that border segment, which should help curb illegal commercial activities and all trafficking. In that context, we support the early signing of the memorandum of understanding on the European Commission Border Assistance Mission to the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine, and we express our satisfaction at the readiness of the Ukrainian authorities to cooperate in that respect. Thirdly, the Government has called for the democratization and demilitarization of the Transnistrian region of the Republic of Moldova through the development of civil society, political parties and a free press, as well as through respect for human rights and freedoms, the disarmament and dismantlement of illegal military units, militias and security structures. Only after creating a vibrant and politically open society — a process that should be carried out under the close monitoring of the international community — can one envisage the possibility of free and democratic elections in Transnistria to establish genuine, responsible representatives of the population of the region. The Republic of Moldova has been pleading for a new negotiating format by connecting the European Union and the United States. New inputs, ideas and practical contributions are needed to move the process forward. The same is true of the current peacekeeping mechanism, which is far from meeting the recognized standards of an unbiased attitude and should be replaced by an international mechanism of military and civil observers under an OSCE mandate. The reintegration of the country would give new impetus to our efforts for sustained economic development. The country’s strong economic performance, reflected in its stable and sustained economic growth over the past four years, as well as the quality of our country’s poverty reduction and 30 economic growth strategy paper and the Government’s steady commitment to fully implementing it, demonstrate that the Republic of Moldova is on the right track to increasing the well-being of our citizens and improving the country’s socio-economic indicators, including through achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. The Republic of Moldova has irreversibly chosen the path of European integration as the strategic objective of its foreign policy. We are aware of the full extent of changes, reforms and improvements we have to achieve internally to meet the rigorous European standards for economic development, good governance, democracy, political freedom and human rights. Our optimism with respect to Moldova’s successful achievement of its aspirations is rooted in the firm will of the entire society to mobilize our resources to achieve that objective. Successful and complete implementation of the EU-Moldova Action Plan will give us the opportunity to rise to a new level of contractual relations with the European Union, as set out in that document. It will also be decisive for achieving further internal reforms and general progress in the country. The recent first evaluation of the implementation of the EU-Moldova Action Plan showed encouraging results and steady progress. The Government is committed to the full implementation of that comprehensive document, which will open, we hope, a clear European perspective for our country. My country is ready to work tirelessly to make our Organization stronger, more efficient and able to fulfil the ambitious goals set by our leaders at the 2005 world summit. Only through collective action carried out in a spirit of global partnership will we be able to create a better, more secure world for the generations to come.First, I would like to salute Mr. Jean Ping, the outgoing President of the General Assembly, for the work he did to guide the General Assembly as the nations of the world considered the immensely important matters that led to the elaboration of the outcome document that was adopted last night. I would also like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside over the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. We are confident that you will lead the Assembly well as it confronts the challenge of implementing the decisions taken during the millennium review summit and remains seized of other important matters that were not adequately addressed in the outcome document. Shortly before we convened here for the millennium review summit, an important meeting of Christian leaders took place in Washington, D.C. Those leaders issued a communique entitled ìA Call to Partnershipî, directed at our summit meeting. In part the call says, 'At the urgent call of church leaders in the southern hemisphere, we came together at the Washington National Cathedral as Christian leaders from diverse traditions and places, both rich and poor, in the South and the North, united in a common concern for those of us living in poverty. We see their faces; we hear their voices; they are a part of us, and we are a part of them.' As the United Nations reaches its sixtieth anniversary, we give thanks for its work in peacemaking and global reconciliation, particularly the historic commitment to eradicate poverty in the Millennium Declaration of 2000. 10 Five years have passed, and, despite the triumph of principle, there has been a failure in practice. In this communique, we offer our partnership to the leaders gathered at the World Summit at the United Nations in building a global movement to make real the promises of the Millennium Development Goals as a crucial step towards a more just world for all God's children. We believe that God calls us to place people struggling with poverty at the centre of our concern. Globalization has brought unprecedented economic growth. At the same time, one sixth of the world's people still fight daily for survival under the crushing burden of extreme poverty. The increasing concentration of wealth in our world, while so many suffer, is a scandal that impoverishes us all. 'We believe that the spirit of partnership between rich and poor, exemplified in the MDGs, is a way the world can address poverty in all its dimensions. In particular, we support the goal of a global partnership for development, and believe that the Churches can make a unique contribution to that partnership.' If nothing else, the fact that the religious leaders who issued that call gathered from many parts of the world to agree on a message to our summit Meeting must remind us that the masses - the people who elected us - entertain high expectations about the United Nations. They see this Organization as their pre-eminent partner in the continuing struggle to build a better and humane world. They challenge those of us who have the privilege to represent our States in the United Nations to build, strengthen and direct this world Organization so that it can, indeed, play its role as a pre-eminent partner of the peoples of the world in constructing a better and more humane world. Accordingly, I believe that we must view with the greatest seriousness their conclusion that five years have passed since we adopted the Millennium Declaration and that, 'despite this triumph of principle, there has been a failure in practice'. Sixty years ago, in the aftermath of the destructive fury of the Second World War and the villainous genocide committed during that war, the United Nations was formed, in the words of the Charter, 'to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind'. Responding to the universal demand for human and peoples' rights, the founders declared that they were forming the United Nations 'to reaffirm faith in the fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small' and to 'promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom'. As we gather here, in part to celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of an international Organization established to bring hope to the peoples of the world, we cannot avoid asking some hard questions. That is necessary if we are to live up to our obligation to ensure that the United Nations discharges its responsibilities, described by the religious leaders who met at the Washington National Cathedral as peacemaking, global reconciliation and the eradication of poverty. We must ask ourselves how well prepared the United Nations is today, 60 years after it was established, to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war; to protect and advance the fundamental human rights of all; to protect and advance the dignity and worth of each human person; to ensure equal rights between men and women; to ensure equal rights between nations large and small; and to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom. We must ask - and answer honestly - whether what we do as the United Nations is properly described as a triumph of principle but a failure in practice, as the religious leaders put it. The reality is that, 60 years after the United Nations was formed as a response to the appalling and ghastly results of the crime of racism, we are still confronted by the cancer of racism. Although the United Nations has adopted important decisions on that matter, and convened the necessary conferences to unite the peoples of the world against racism, those who continue to fall victim to that crime against humanity would find it difficult to cite the instances when the United Nations came to their aid. Sixty years after the United Nations was formed, the indecencies of war and violent conflict continue to afflict innocent people, evidently because we, the 11 United Nations, lack the will to live up to the commitment that was made when this Organization was established. Africans, who have been exposed to many violent conflicts since the United Nations was formed, are particularly keen for this Organization to live up to its obligation to save succeeding African generations from the scourge of war. Even as we speak, the United Nations is faced with the urgent task of taking the necessary action in CÙte díIvoire to help to bring a lasting peace to that important African country, opening the way to its reunification, the holding of democratic elections and the promotion of social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom, to use the words of the Charter. A similar challenge faces this Organization with regard to the restoration of lasting peace in Darfur in the Sudan, building on the historic conclusion and implementation of the Sudanese Comprehensive Peace Agreement, signed in Nairobi, Kenya, earlier this year. Only 11 years ago, we experienced a terrible genocide in Rwanda, and thousands were killed in the internecine conflict that took place in the Balkans. Those who were exposed to the savagery would be fully justified in concluding that the United Nations had betrayed its commitment to the peoples of the world. I am certain that all of us are impatient to see an end to the conflicts in the Middle East, including Iraq, and in particular the restoration of the rights of the people of Palestine, in the context of the successful implementation of the road map. While we welcome recent positive developments in this regard, we must accept the reality that every day that passes without the full implementation of the road map only serves to point an accusing finger at us, the United Nations, accusing us of not having done everything we could to help secure the just and lasting peace that is the right of the Palestinian, the Israeli and the Arab peoples. We have all recognized the serious and urgent threat posed by international terrorism to all our nations. We have all accepted the reality that we need a multilateral response to that common threat. Yet we have still not succeeded in arriving at a common definition of that threat or identified its fundamental causes. The issues of non-proliferation and the disarmament of weapons of mass destruction are matters of critical concern to all nations, both large and small. Yet we failed to address those matters in the outcome document adopted at the review summit last night, even as the issue of nuclear weapons and their non-proliferation is among the most prominent items in world news and on the international agenda. None of us could justly claim that our failure as the United Nations to take specific decisions on these matters served to enhance global security in the face of the threat of weapons of mass destruction. With regard to the issue of Iran, we firmly believe that negotiations should resume and that the matter be settled within the framework of the provisions of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and with the full participation of the International Atomic Energy Agency. The gap between the rich and the poor is becoming worse within and between countries, as observed by the United Nations Development Programmeís 2005 Human Development Report, which states that the gap between the average citizen in the richest and in the poorest countries is wide and is getting wider. It states that in 1990 the average American was 38 times richer than the average Tanzanian, while today the average American is 61 times richer. The same report states, on page 3, 'In 2003, 18 countries with a combined population of 460 million people registered lower scores on the human development index (HDI) than in 1990 - an unprecedented reversal. In the midst of an increasingly prosperous global economy, 10.7 million children every year do not live to see their fifth birthday, and more than 1 billion people survive in abject poverty on less than a $1 a day.' Accordingly, if we pause and scan the road travelled to judge whether we have succeeded in saving the world from the scourge of war; whether we have built a world that has reaffirmed faith in fundamental human rights; whether we have created a world that has restored the dignity and worth of the human person - a world that has entrenched equal rights for men and women and for nations, large and small - the answer from the majority of the people of the world may very well be a resounding 'No'. 12 The United Nations has adopted many decisions intended to help address the various global challenges that have persisted over the 60 years of its existence. Accordingly, we have the necessary policies to address the social, economic, political and other problems facing humanity. We have also adopted comprehensive and clear programmes to give effect to those policies and have identified the resources required for their implementation. The questions we must answer are: why have we not implemented these programmes, and what must be done to correct the situation? The process of globalization means that our common world is more integrated today than it was when the United Nations was formed 60 years ago. Similarly, the interconnectedness of the issues of peace, security, development and human rights has never been more pronounced than it is today. All this means that the imperatives that made it necessary and correct to establish the United Nations as part of a desirable system of global governance are that much more compelling today, and that the necessary reform of the Organization must take place to ensure that it reflects the new global realities since it was formed and that it is empowered to respond effectively to the urgent challenges that face all humanity. And yet, the painful paradox we face is that it seems obvious that, over the years, there has been a continuous erosion of the authority and prestige of the United Nations and a sustained drift towards its marginalization in terms of playing its rightful role, as so clearly defined in the United Nations Charter. At its sixtieth session, the General Assembly has the heavy responsibility to reassert the critical need for the United Nations to discharge its responsibilities as spelled out in that Charter. Experience over the last 60 years has shown that, to address the criticism levelled against the Organization by religious leaders ó that there has been a triumph of principle and a failure in practice ó we must be ready to engage in a sustained struggle to ensure that the vision contained in the United Nations Charter is actually translated into reality. As we engage in this struggle, we should say, as did the religious leaders who met at the Washington National Cathedral, that we are united in a common concern for those of us living in poverty: 'We see their faces; we hear their voices; they are a part of us, and we are a part of them.' Let me close by reiterating our deepest sympathies and condolences to the Government and the people of the United States in the wake of the death and destruction wreaked by Hurricane Katrina.Allow me to begin by extending my delegation’s warmest congratulations to the President upon his assumption of the office of the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. We have full confidence in his ability to guide our deliberations to a successful conclusion. I also pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for skilfully conducting the work of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly and for his efforts in preparing the High-level Plenary Meeting, held from 14 to 16 September 2005. It is appropriate that the theme for the sixtieth session of the General Assembly is “For a stronger and more effective United Nations: the follow-up and implementation of the High-level Plenary Meeting in September 2005”. Indeed, this session has the responsibility to implement the decisions of the High-level Plenary Meeting. Our leaders have clearly pronounced that the goals and objectives of the Millennium Summit and other United Nations conferences and summits represent the minimum required to deal with the issues and challenges of our time. Their message is that 2005 should be a year for concrete action to deliver on those goals and objectives. We must, therefore, summon political will and assume moral responsibility to work truly for the benefit of our peoples on whose behalf we gather at the United Nations year after year. In the report “In larger freedom: towards development, security and human rights for all” (A/59/2005), the Secretary-General argues that the principles and purposes of the United Nations contained in the Charter remain as valid and relevant today as they were in 1945 and that what is now required is for practice and organization to move with the times. My delegation fully agrees with that view. Our work must always be guided by the Charter, but our approach must adapt to changing circumstances and challenges. In doing so, we must move beyond narrow national perspectives and interests and treat all issues in a balanced and holistic manner. As I stated at the High-level Plenary Meeting last week, my delegation supports all initiatives to strengthen the United Nations and its institutions. Of 17 significant interest to my delegation is the strengthening of this Assembly, which is the only universal body in the United Nations. There is a clear consensus within the membership on the need for urgent and wide-ranging reform of the United Nations, although differences remain on the nature and extent of reform. The 2005 World Summit Outcome has entrusted the sixtieth session with implementation of certain reform decisions and at the same time with carrying out further discussions and negotiations in areas where consensus has not been reached. We must continue with our efforts to find consensus in those areas. Among the issues that are unresolved is the reform of the Security Council. We have debated this issue for well over a decade, but have not yet reached a decision. My country continues to call for early action to enlarge the permanent and non-permanent membership of the Security Council and to improve its working methods. In this context, we reiterate our support to include Brazil, Germany, India and Japan as permanent members. Those countries have demonstrated their capacity and will to contribute to world peace and security. We also believe that Africa should be adequately represented by permanent membership on the Council. Development is the most immediate and pressing issue for the vast majority of Member States. No other issue can be as central as development when millions live in deprivation and despair; and global peace and security cannot be truly achieved without advancing development. In fact, partnership in other areas cannot be sustained without genuine international cooperation in development. The shortfalls in our commitments to the Millennium Summit and other major United Nations conferences and summits are all too clear. More needs to be done urgently to address the hurdles of development, which range from finance to debt, trade, global governance and systemic issues, the environment and science and technology. Adequate and predictable sources of financing are crucial for the success of development efforts. We therefore welcome ideas for innovative sources of funding and calls for increased official development assistance (ODA). In this regard, my delegation would like to commend those countries that have achieved or exceeded the ODA target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product (GNP). We welcome the timetable established by some countries to achieve the ODA target by 2015 and urge others to do so expeditiously. We also urge that 0.2 per cent of GNP be allocated to least developed countries to enable them to achieve the goals and objectives of the Brussels Programme of Action and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The recent decision of the Group of 8 (G-8) to cancel the external debt of 18 highly indebted poor countries, including 13 least developed countries, is a welcome move. My delegation is hopeful that the same consideration will be given to all least developed countries. As a small, least developed and landlocked country, Bhutan sees official development assistance as its primary source of financing for development. In this regard, my delegation would like to place on record its deep appreciation of the bilateral and multilateral partners that are actively supporting our development efforts. Despite a significant increase in its own resources, my country will have to rely on ODA for some time in its efforts to realize the MDGs as well as for overall development. The continued support of the international community for our development efforts is crucial at the present juncture. Decades of gradual but deliberate change in the system of governance of the country, spearheaded by His Majesty King Jigme Singye Wangchuck, are entering a critical phase. A draft constitution for the country is currently under discussion. Its adoption in the near future will transform the country into a parliamentary democracy. For this system of governance to succeed, it is imperative that the country be able to maintain the current level of progress in the social, economic and other fields. My country attaches great importance to the conservation and protection of the environment, as human life is fundamentally dependent on natural systems and resources. There cannot be sustainable development without environmental sustainability. We must commit ourselves to meeting the goals of, inter alia, the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Agenda 21 and the Kyoto Protocol. In Bhutan, we have made serious efforts to integrate the principles and practices of environmental sustainability into our development policies and programmes. As a result of our conservation efforts, Bhutan has successfully maintained 72.5 per cent of its land area under forest 18 cover. Our modest achievement in this area was duly recognized by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) in April 2005 when it awarded to His Majesty the King and the people of Bhutan a UNEP Champions of the Earth 2005 award. My country fully supports the establishment of a worldwide early warning system for all natural hazards. Situated in a very fragile mountain ecosystem, Bhutan is prone to glacial floods and other natural disasters, including earthquakes. The solidarity that the international community demonstrated last year when many countries in the Indian Ocean rim were devastated by the tsunami was exemplary and is worth replicating in other areas. Terrorism is a pernicious threat to peace and security. It cannot be justified under any circumstances. It is imperative for the international community to act resolutely to root out this menace. We condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. Bhutan supports all efforts to conclude a comprehensive convention on international terrorism and other initiatives. Small and poor developing countries are particularly vulnerable and are in need of international support to fight terrorism. They are also vulnerable to transnational crime and need assistance to deal with it. International migration is on the increase today. Migration offers opportunities and at the same time presents serious challenges to both source and recipient countries. Associated with it is the problem of illegal immigration, which presents serious challenges, particularly to small countries such as my own. It is therefore important for a high-level dialogue on international migration and development to be held by the General Assembly in 2006 to address all issues associated with migration. My delegation supports the Secretary-General’s continuing efforts to organize annual multilateral treaty events in conjunction with General Assembly sessions. In this context, we are pleased to report to the Assembly that Bhutan acceded to the following treaties last week: the United Nations Convention against Corruption; the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict; and the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography. Bhutan, as a responsible Member State, fully upholds all relevant international treaties and conventions. However, our desire to accede to them is consistently constrained by lack of capacity to deal with the range of issues they contain and by the difficulties of meeting reporting and other obligations. This is a serious hurdle faced by many small countries, especially least developed countries. There is a genuine need to look at ways to simplify reporting and other obligations and to provide technical and financial assistance to countries in need. We must heed the call of the Secretary-General who has said, “Our action must be as urgent as the need, and on the same scale. ... Only by acting decisively now can we both confront the pressing security challenges and win a decisive victory in the global battle against poverty by 2015”. (A/59/2005, para. 23) We believe that the time to act is now. We must not let the opportunity slip. I wish the General Assembly continued success at this session.Allow me to extend to you, Sir, our warm congratulations on your election to preside over the historic sixtieth session of the General 13 Assembly. You can rest assured of the fullest cooperation of my delegation. We want to express our appreciation to the President of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly, our brother, Mr. Jean Ping, whose tenure as President of the Assembly coincided with momentous events at the United Nations that required both wisdom and a great deal of competence on the part of the President. Mr. Jean Ping showed he had both, and he has made us all proud. We are, as usual, grateful to our Secretary- General, Kofi Annan, whose tenure of office will always be remembered as a period of enormous dedication to the reform of the United Nations and of a noble effort to mobilize international support to combat extreme poverty. The outcome document which our heads of State or Government endorsed (resolution 60/1) reflects the global consensus on the fact that the reform of the United Nations is essential and timely. My delegation welcomes the document, which outlines a far-reaching agenda for change. The achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by those vulnerable to being thrown off track is critical to all, not just to those directly affected. It would be regrettable if targets that have so much significance for the well-being of all were missed in the course of the next 10 years due to failure on the part of those directly affected or a lack of solidarity at the international level. We strongly believe that the targets are neither unrealistic nor unduly ambitious. It cannot be emphasized enough that, at the end of the day, those that have primary responsibility for prevailing over extreme poverty are those that are directly affected. But those that suffer from extreme poverty require the support of the international community to stay on track to achieve the MDGs. In concrete terms, that means that official development assistance and measures on debt relief and trade need to be aligned with the realization of the Millennium Development Goals. In that regard, we are encouraged by the progress made at the Group of Eight Gleneagles summit. We were also encouraged by the commitment of leaders at the High-level Plenary Meeting to address the current distortions in international trade, including through the elimination of agricultural subsidies. There is nothing more important for low-income countries than a partnership that is predictable, consistent and based on previously defined mutual obligations. No amount of international cooperation will be enough to achieve the Millennium Development Goals unless domestic conditions are met in all relevant areas. We in Ethiopia have been doing our level best in that regard. We have spared no effort to change the economic situation in our country for the better, our primary focus being the rural sector. Ethiopia has made a tireless effort to implement the Millennium Development Goals. Despite all the complications and the absence of a tradition of loyal opposition, the recent elections in Ethiopia have demonstrated the depth of commitment we have to transform the tradition of governance in Ethiopia ó a tradition that has been as remote from democracy as it is possible to be. Those elections stand out as a milestone in the process of democratization of the State and of society at large. Ethiopia has entered into a new era of a vibrant multiparty political system. In the area of peace - and particularly with respect to peace in our subregion - we, along with like-minded partners, will continue to be pillars for peace and stability. On the fight against terrorism, Ethiopia will continue to discharge its responsibility in cooperation with other peace-loving countries. Ethiopia rejects terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We in Ethiopia are determined to work with the international community to implement the counter-terrorism strategy. In connection with our deep aspiration for peace, our only source of disappointment is the lingering dispute we have with Eritrea. Ethiopia has been contributing more than its share to resolve that outstanding problem. In his statement on Wednesday, 21 September (see ), the Eritrean representative officially threatened to use force against Ethiopia on the basis of the unfounded allegation that part of Eritrean territory is under Ethiopian occupation. I find it incumbent upon me to set the record straight. This is a problem that grew out of an act of aggression committed by Eritrea against Ethiopia. It is no secret how Ethiopia managed to reverse the Eritrean aggression and how it created the conditions for a peaceful resolution of the crisis between the two countries, based on legality, to which Ethiopia has been 14 and remains committed. Any suggestion, such as the one made by the Eritrean representative on Wednesday, that Eritrean territory is occupied is a mockery of the truth and an insult to the intelligence of the international community. The threat or use of force should have no place as a means of resolving disputes between States. That is a principle to which Ethiopia has adhered: before the Eritrean act of aggression, after the aggression was reversed and since. Regrettably, Eritrea's attitude is different, as has been repeatedly evidenced on the ground in our region and in statements made by Eritrean officials in different forums, including the General Assembly. The Eritrean Government needs to be reminded that it should make no mistake: it will be held accountable for its actions. Ethiopia has always been committed to the rule of law and to the maintenance of peace and stability. Our five-point peace plan of 25 November 2004 for moving forward towards peace with Eritrea, which was welcomed by the international community, demonstrates Ethiopia's seriousness in that regard. Eritrea knows that Ethiopia has been ready for dialogue, both to ensure the demarcation of the boundary on the basis of the decision of the Boundary Commission and to normalize relations between the two countries. Eritrea abhors dialogue, perhaps because it suspects that dialogue would eventually lead to peace. It is not clear whether the Government of Eritrea believes that peace serves its interests. Perhaps the people of Eritrea need to be kept on their toes, with their gaze focused on artificial external adversity. In any event, Eritrea has no reason to be angry at Ethiopia or at the world. Eritrea dragged Ethiopia into war in 1998 and now continues to be an obstacle to the normalization of relations between the two countries and peoples. The problem between Ethiopia and Eritrea has never been, and is not, a legal one; rather, it is political in nature, and Ethiopia has the political will to move forward. We invite Eritrea to join us in that effort. Ethiopia does not believe at all in sabre-rattling, least of all between countries that should have little time to spare from fighting extreme poverty. On the continental level, we are encouraged by the dynamism that the new African Union has injected into the joint African effort for peace and stability. There is no doubt that reform of the United Nations could create even greater possibilities for Africa to play its proper role, not only within Africa but also outside the continent. Ethiopia continues to attach great importance to the reform of the United Nations. We believe that, although all our expectations have not been met, the High-level Plenary Meeting provided great impetus for making progress, in terms of both achieving the Millennium Development Goals and advancing the reform of the United Nations. It is our hope that it will be possible to make progress in the course of this session. I would like to conclude by reiterating Ethiopia's commitment to the United Nations, and its preparedness to do whatever is necessary to contribute to efforts designed to make the Organization more effective and more representative.I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the current session of the General Assembly. May I also express our deep appreciation to Mr. Jean Ping for so ably guiding the work of the General Assembly during its fifty-ninth session. I am honoured to address the General Assembly today in my capacity as Chairman of the Group of 77 and China. Five years ago, I was among the leaders of nations, rich and poor, who met here under the auspices of the United Nations and made a compact to rid the world of the most dehumanizing conditions afflicting a 24 large portion of humankind. That was a solemn pledge made by us to the most disadvantaged peoples of our world — the poor, the hungry, the illiterate, the homeless, the sick — to infants, mothers and the unborn, as well as to nature, which must sustain the existence of the whole human race. This year’s Human Development Report of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) reveals that one fifth of humanity survives on less than $1 per day, and that 2.5 billion people fail to earn $2 daily. The recently concluded High-level Plenary Meeting has revealed that we have made slight progress, more so in a few regions, to meet some of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). But we are nowhere on track to achieving the promises of any of the major development-oriented United Nations conferences or summits held since the adoption of the MDGs. Progress has been uneven. At the current pace, some regions and countries will miss several of the MDGs by decades. In certain areas, such as the elimination of hunger, we could be centuries away. We are likely to miss global targets in the areas of infant and maternal mortality, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and other infectious diseases and environmental sustainability. Limited financial resources, debt, restricted asymmetrical trade opportunities and HIV/AIDS have been identified as major inhibiting factors. Beyond those constraints, during the past five years many developing countries have suffered devastating natural disasters, which have disrupted economic growth, damaged production, destroyed infrastructure and dislocated populations, causing economic losses that amount to years of gross domestic product (GDP). Development goals and targets cannot be met within the time frames without a massive addition of resources, both financial and technical. No one can remain safe and secure, or even content, while living in an oasis of wealth surrounded by a desert of poverty. Not to be forgotten is the unfulfilled agenda of gender equity. The empowerment of women must be a vital ingredient in all our social and economic programmes. We agreed at Monterrey on a comprehensive approach to mobilize the financing needed for real global development that specified the contributions required from developing and developed countries alike. Our review has revealed that, as a group, developing countries have delivered on their commitments. Most have achieved a level of economic growth and have increased domestic resources and foreign-exchange reserves. There has been a strengthened focus on South/South cooperation, which has seen trade among developing countries growing faster than their total export trade and an increasing flow of investment. At the second South-South Summit, held in Qatar in June, we agreed on a major programme of South/South cooperation that is already having results. I shall cite just two examples. First, the Governments of Qatar, China and India pledged donations at the Summit to launch a South fund for development and humanitarian assistance. Secondly, last week at Montego Bay, Jamaica, the President of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela signed, with several Caribbean Governments, the Petrocaribe Energy Cooperation Agreement to enhance energy security, facilitate socio- economic development and advance regional economic integration in the Caribbean. This is a most positive initiative at a time of high and volatile energy prices and insecure supplies. From our partners in the developed world there has been a gradual recovery of private foreign direct investment and in the provision of official development assistance (ODA). We welcome the increase in debt relief, including debt cancellation, for many of the most highly indebted poor countries, as well as the renewed focus on Africa and on HIV/AIDS. However, the review has also revealed some trends that are cause for anxiety, and therefore worthy of our attention. First, a significant part of the resources mobilized by developing countries has been used to finance debt-servicing payments to multilateral development banks and to increase foreign-exchange reserves held in developed countries. That has led to net transfers to developed countries every year since 1998. Secondly, foreign direct investment has been concentrated in, and is becoming almost confined to, the larger, faster-growing developing countries. Thirdly, the increase in ODA since 2000 has largely been the result of resources targeted for emergency assistance, debt relief and technical assistance. Together they accounted for 50 cents of every aid dollar in 2004. Fourthly, debt relief has been limited to those highly indebted poor countries which have satisfied International Monetary Fund (IMF) conditions for disbursements. Fifthly, the terms of trade continue 25 to work against commodity- and preference-dependent developing countries. And sixthly, the sudden erosion of trade preferences has created significant economic hardships for many developing countries without the resources or time to diversify their export base. The net result is that there have been insufficient new resources available to the vast majority of developing countries to invest in meeting long-term development goals. Policy space for developing countries to act effectively and the timing and quality of the resource flows are also very important. In this regard, the Group of 77 and China calls for the elimination of aid conditionalities which restrict the policy options for developing countries and thereby the real effectiveness of development cooperation. Further, we stress the need to cease the use of unilateral coercive measures against developing countries. It is wrong to apply the weight of economic power to pressure developing countries for political purposes. This causes severe hardships and jeopardizes development efforts, including the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. There are developing countries which face peculiar, if not unique, development challenges. The Group of 77 and China has consistently argued that Africa, the least developed countries, the landlocked developing countries and the small island developing States face special and tremendous challenges. These are magnified in a globalized, liberalized and competitive international economic environment and with the increasing incidence of more devastating natural disasters. The arguments are gaining acceptance. There are now internationally agreed programmes for the last three named groups and an emerging consensus for a special programme for Africa under African leadership. The special programmes for these groups of countries were reaffirmed at our High-level Plenary Meeting. We now need to implement them with urgency. We have long recognized that export trade is the most sustainable source of resources for development as well as the best stimulant to investment and employment. The current international trading rules and systems are heavily stacked against developing countries. We must resolve to transform international trade into an engine of growth. The policies, rules and modalities of global trade must have development focus. Why have we failed so miserably to fulfil the Doha mandate for a development round? We sent only the feeblest of messages from the High-level Plenary Meeting to our trade ministers, but unless they are given firm instructions to afford special and differential treatment to developing countries, the December Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in Hong Kong will, like those held in Seattle and Cancun, yield a dismal collapse. We agreed in Monterrey that it was necessary to reform the international economic system and make it more coherent and supportive of the development policies of Member States. We also agreed that it was necessary to increase the voice and participation of developing countries in the international financial and trade institutions. Yet nothing has happened. We cannot allow the Bretton Woods institutions to remain forever impervious to our calls. To attain the agreed development objectives, there must be a renunciation of the ill-conceived policies imposed on a number of developing countries under structural adjustment programmes begun three decades ago. We might dispute the causes and the sharing of responsibility, but no longer do we dispute the awesome reality of climate change. The evidence that climate change poses a long-term challenge to every part of the globe is irrefutable. Developing countries have maintained that climate change and other unsustainable pressures on our environment demand urgent attention. Developed countries must take the lead in changing production and consumption patterns: in an approach to the development and transfer of environmentally sound technology to developing countries on a preferential basis; in their level of commitment and support to fight against desertification and land degradation; and in the resources to be devoted to the management of waste and in the change towards the promotion of a culture of recycling. We must keep on pressing for the development and adoption of strategies that mitigate, and build resilience to, the impact of climate change. I have spoken thus far on development issues. But these are closely related to other critical areas of the international agenda. One such area is disarmament and arms control, which is in danger of becoming a neglected and forgotten goal of the United Nations. The link between disarmament and development is even more relevant today. The figures are indeed 26 startling. Roughly $1 trillion is now spent annually on weapons and military equipment of all kinds, consuming a massive share of the world’s resources. If such resources were channelled into development, the world would not only be more prosperous, it would be much safer and more secure. Our concern is not just about nuclear weapons. It is also about the proliferation of guns of every description, which endangers the lives of ordinary citizens, undermines the rule of law and threatens social stability. Those who manufacture such weapons must exercise greater control and support anti- proliferation efforts. The United Nations was established 60 years ago to bring peace and security to the world, and also to play a major role in promoting development. The United Nations must not allow, as has appeared to be the case in recent years, any part of its mandate to be usurped. The Bretton Woods institutions and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, now the World Trade Organization, have taken dominant positions on policies in areas of their specialization. These policies, however, have far-ranging implications across the economic, social and environmental spectrum. There is a glaring gap in overall international development policymaking, and in the capacity to secure coherence across the development, finance, trade and technology areas. With renewed priority to development and the Millennium Development Goals, United Nations reform should empower the Organization by providing the resources and a clear mandate to do at least three things. First, it should ensure system-wide coherence, including with the Bretton Woods institutions and the WTO, in respect to the policies and operational activities which impact the achievement of the agreed development goals. Secondly, it should bring the resources of the development-oriented arms of the United Nations system to focus on development priorities that have been identified by Member States. And, thirdly, it should promote dialogue and partnership, review trends, particularly in resource mobilization, and implement measures to ensure that the Development Goals can be met within the agreed time frames. These should be the responsibility of a revitalized Economic and Social Council. The future of generations to come rests not so much on the vigour of our debate and the declarations at the sixtieth session of the General Assembly, but on the action we take, commencing right here in New York, to make the United Nations stronger and more effective. All our citizens are demanding that collectively we emerge with a clear vision, that we display the courage and unrelenting commitment to build a world of peace, justice and equity, which we can inhabit together in true harmony. They are convinced that it is within our power to rid the only planet where human life prevails of hunger, ignorance, disease and strife. They believe we can provide shelter to the homeless and eradicate poverty everywhere; that once we have the political will and determination, we can prevent genocide and combat terrorism; that irrespective of gender, race, colour or religious creed, we can ensure for every person the inalienable right of human dignity. Let us spare no effort to build a single world free from want and fear, free from exploitation and oppression: a mother Earth where justice, liberty, prosperity and the wisdom of creative minds prevail in abundance. Let us here resolve to build one world in which every man, woman and child can realize the true purpose of life and enjoy its fulfilment. Let us determine that the time for action is now and sound the trumpet of hope for all mankind.My Government supports the report of the Secretary- General, which reaffirms development, peace, security and human rights as fundamental to the well-being of any modern State. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis steadfastly contends that there is an inherent link between poverty reduction, the promotion of human rights, economic development, security and good governance. Regrettably, the tendency has been to separate them, in favour of what some call political imperatives. I daresay policies do not and cannot exist in a vacuum. Politics is about people, and therefore national, regional or even international organizational policies must be about people. There is stark evidence of this. The political landscape reveals clear indications of the interconnectedness of the phenomena of poverty eradication, security, economic development and governance. The task of governance is becoming increasingly difficult in the face of growing unemployment, deepening poverty, escalating energy prices and a mounting cost of living. As a consequence, we have witnessed social dislocations and civil disquiet. The fruits of globalization still do not grow among the worldís poorest, who have become further marginalized and blame their Governments, which, despite their best efforts, are often relegated to the margins of political discourse and economic activities. Some citizens have become more vocal and more open in their distrust of Government policies that fail to deliver the promises of democracy and globalization, fail to reduce poverty and unemployment and fail to improve their standard of living. The economic and political rift between rich and poor nations is steadily becoming a deeper divide as mistrust continues to characterize relations between the developed and the developing countries. Understandably, small countries ó despite limited and diminishing resources ó are expected to participate equally in the fight against the social scourges that confront us. But that dramatically reduces our ability to make new and necessary investments in socio-economic development. It is within that context that we urge Member nations to substantively support the Millennium Development Goals. We also urge them to partner with us, recognizing our vulnerabilities to natural disasters and other external economic factors, and recognizing the need for preferred and differential treatment in trade and access to markets in developed countries. We urge developed countries to implement policies that do not 2 undermine our efforts or reverse the gains that we in small developing countries have made. We call for equity and for a willingness to live and let live. Despite overwhelming odds, however, the Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis stands ready to do its share. At the base of our efforts and policies is the fundamental importance of strengthening the rights of the child. We believe that promoting the rights of the child goes to the heart of full and effective protection of human rights. We also firmly believe that by making sure every child in Saint Kitts and Nevis has access to primary and secondary education, to potable water and to health care, we are creating healthier, better adjusted and productive adults whose rights will have been nourished and enshrined in the policy orientation and development agenda of our proud country. It is generally accepted that the right to development is also a fundamental right that national Governments have a primary responsibility to ensure. Long before the Millennium Development Goals were formally elaborated and adopted by the community of nations, that fundamental right was emphatically understood by the Government and the people of Saint Kitts and Nevis. As a point of reference, in this year's Human Development Report issued by the United Nations Development Programme, Saint Kitts and Nevis was ranked 49 out of 177 countries on the Human Development Index ó the second-highest ranking in the Caribbean region and, indeed, among the highest in the Latin American and Caribbean region. The report reflects the reality in Saint Kitts and Nevis, where there is an adult literacy rate of 97.8 per cent, a life expectancy rate of 70 years - which needs upward revision - and a combined primary, secondary and tertiary school enrolment ratio of 89 per cent. The report underscores our commitment to gender equality, starting with current parity in enrolment levels among girls and boys in school at both the primary and the secondary levels. The report also confirms 98 per cent access to safe water and sanitation. In the field of health, it notes a 99 per cent rate of immunization of infants against tuberculosis and measles in Saint Kitts and Nevis. The Pan-Caribbean Partnership to combat HIV/AIDS (PANCAP), established by the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), has proved to be a useful and pragmatic vehicle for collective action and results. In Saint Kitts and Nevis, our own fight against HIV/AIDS uses that particular model. PANCAP has distinguished itself and has been identified as a best- practice model. We are therefore now pursuing policies aimed at universal access to treatment and care and at ending discrimination and the stigmatization of those persons affected by HIV/AIDS, while at the same time continuing our public education initiatives on preventing the spread of the virus. A per capita income of more than $7,000 places us squarely among upper-middle-income countries. We thank the United Nations for recognizing our efforts, which are the result of policies engineered to ensure the development of the individual despite the obstacles that we face as a small economy. They also reflect the commitment of my Government to ensuring the protection of the rights of our children and their role in our countryís future. That, however, is only one side of the coin. The achievements to which I referred come at an enormous cost - a cost that represents an enormous burden - to our people. The past decade has been particularly difficult for Saint Kitts and Nevis. Our small island State continues to be especially vulnerable to natural disasters, external economic fluctuations and policies biased against small economies such as ours. My country has experienced back-to-back hurricanes, landslides and floods, at a cost of more than half a billion dollars. We have been forced to direct more and more of our scarce resources towards recovery and away from development. The experience throughout the Caribbean region is very similar. It was just in July this year that our sister CARICOM nation of Grenada again suffered serious devastation, caused by Hurricane Emily, on the back of last year's devastation brought by Hurricane Ivan. The Maldives, another small island sister nation, has made pleas for a delay in the process set in motion for its graduation from the list of least developed countries, owing to the tsunami. We specifically support the Maldives' request. In addition to the cost of recovery, escalating high prices and the cost of food imports, Saint Kitts and Nevis, as an emerging tourist destination, has faced the prohibitively high cost of implementing supplementary security measures since 11 September 2001. To further compound that grave situation, the recent rulings of the World Trade Organization relative to trade preferences have dealt a most significant blow 3 to small economies in the Caribbean and therefore threaten to unravel their economic base. In the case of my country, after centuries of sugar production and sales to the European market - which have been a cornerstone of our economic support and our social stability - we have been forced to close that industry, which finally succumbed to continuous losses and escalating debts. Saint Kitts and Nevis can no longer compete profitably in a world market that is characterized by engineered low prices for sugar and by the unfair trading practices of some countries. That has severe implications in terms of unemployment, social dislocation, psychological distress and the dramatic loss of urgently needed foreign-exchange earnings. We have tried to prepare for such an eventuality through a process of economic diversification, but support from the international community has not been forthcoming. The cost of borrowing, the removal of grant financing from the menus of international financial institutions and the annual recovery costs from catastrophic hurricanes have become more and more onerous. Creative legal policy initiatives, especially in the international financial services sector, have been challenged and undermined by some developed countries. In an attempt to fulfil the Millennium Development Goals by 2015, my Government has also pursued policies to stimulate and facilitate private- sector-led growth by investing in physical infrastructure and human resource development. But we need international political and economic support. The Secretary-General underscored that threats to peace and security represent different things to different countries. If we intend to promote collective security, there must be an appreciation of and sensitivity to this diversity among countries. In the same way, we are called upon to aid in the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking, transnational organized crime and other scourges that threaten international peace and security in the more advanced countries. It is not unreasonable, therefore, to expect reciprocity of support in fighting the almost intractable problems that confront small States. To address these urgent challenges, we call on the international community to support and contribute to the full, timely and effective implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for further implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, which we consider a very important mechanism for achieving the Millennium Development Goals. My Government was heartened by the Secretary- General's proposal for the establishment of a Human Rights Council. We also support effective change in the United Nations, which also means that the Security Council must evolve to reflect current world realities. The United Nations must also play a more enhanced role in development, and the concerns of small island developing States must be given greater attention within this Organization. Small States can offer best- practice models and creative ideas from which the international debate on development, peace, security and human rights could benefit. We encourage greater transparency in the deliberations of critical organs of the Organization and greater opportunities for small States to be represented in the decision-making processes of these organs. The people of Taiwan continue to be excluded from the brotherhood of nations, which was created to represent the hopes and aspirations of all peoples. My Government reiterates its call for the people of the Republic of China, Taiwan, to be consulted, effectively represented and invited to participate in the critical debates on world peace, human security, development and human rights. I believe that we would have failed to promote human rights effectively if, through political exclusion, generations of people are relegated to the margins of such important issues and the forums that facilitate their discussion. I remain cautiously optimistic about the future. On the one hand, Governments have rededicated themselves to the struggle to build a world free from want and fear and with the freedom to live with dignity. In addition, we are poised to reform the United Nations in the hope that it can play a more effective role in this ever-changing world. However, the tenor of last week's summit suggests a strong possibility that some developed countries may yet renege on those commitments, which could further erode developing countries' efforts to eradicate extreme poverty, generate employment, promote human security and narrow the development gap between richer and poorer countries. We still have an opportunity for an enhanced global partnership to turn commitments into action and 4 secure a future for our children, a future that is free from want of the basic necessities, free from fear of violence with guarantees of protection of the right to live in dignity. Only then will we build and reinforce the foundation of democracy, enhance collective security and jumpstart a process where globalization becomes a vehicle for change among all of the world's peoples.Allow me to congratulate you most warmly, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly. Through you, I would like also to thank your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for the manner in which he conducted the preparatory work for the summit of Heads of State and Government which has just taken place. We are very grateful to him for having successfully met that challenge. Even though we had hoped for a more ambitious agreement, the summit allowed us to create a much- needed new impetus and new strategic guidelines for our Organization. Only a stronger and more legitimate United Nations will be able to respond to the challenges of the twenty-first century and implement the collective security consensus that we endorsed in the summit's outcome document. Belgium is a strong advocate of efficient multilateralism. I emphasize the word 'efficient' because this is not just a declaration of faith. We need credible structures and strong institutions capable of effectively implementing our international commitments and addressing our common concerns. It is all too easy to indulge in rhetoric; we have to translate our words into action. That is why, in that context, I am pleased with the progress made during the summit. I am particularly pleased with the consensus reached whereby security, peace, development and human rights are not only interlinked but mutually reinforcing. That is a significant step forward in our efforts to build a more peaceful, more prosperous and more equitable world. That idea will guide our actions and form the basis of our approach. Without peace, there can be no development, and human rights can often be sorely tested. In the absence of development and respect for human rights, stability and security become elusive. The link between development, stability and human rights becomes most acutely apparent in fragile or failing States. These are often States devastated by conflict or by civil war - States whose leaders are no longer capable of meeting the basic needs of their people. Often, their economic situation has deteriorated dramatically, and sometimes their society itself is in disarray. A large number of the people of such States may be displaced. They may have fled, may be subject to abuse or exploitation and therefore cannot enjoy any of the guarantees that a State should be able to provide to its citizens. Some States are at risk of becoming zones of lawlessness, in which terrorist and criminal activities can thrive. The uncontrolled exploitation of natural resources can fuel all sorts of criminal networks or conflicts - often with an ethnic dimension - in which large numbers of weapons can circulate uncontrolled. Such States must return to peace, stability and the rule of law. They must take control of their own future and gradually begin to consider their prospects for development. This is not an easy task. The challenge is tremendous. Almost simultaneously, it is necessary to rebuild State institutions; disarm combatants, give them new prospects and reintegrate them into communities that are often impoverished; reorganize the army and security forces; and give the State the means to restore its authority, organize elections and create conditions conducive to development. We must help them break that vicious circle and regain their place in the community of nations. In that respect, the establishment of a Peacebuilding Commission is crucial. The creation of such a Commission not only illustrates our common resolve to help such States on their path to recovery; it allows us, first and foremost, better to coordinate and focus our efforts. Political, humanitarian, military and financial resources must be mobilized and used effectively to achieve our common goals. That is particularly true in the case of sub- Saharan African countries that are ravaged by deadly and prolonged conflicts, with the primary victims being the civilian population. The establishment of such a Commission would generate great hope. It is our common responsibility to make it a success. Belgium wants to contribute actively, including by sharing the experience it acquired in the transition processes in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in Burundi. Belgium also attaches great importance to promoting the protection of human rights. My country welcomes the strengthening of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the decision to establish a Human Rights Council. But we regret that the summit was not able to finalize the Councilís modalities. 11 Belgium has fully supported the reform and will continue to focus on it. Democracy and respect for human rights are some of our common values and underpin our efforts to promote peace and stability. From now on, those values will be part of our collective security consensus and must be incorporated into our global approach throughout the entire United Nations system. They are our common responsibility. Among the summit's other achievements, I should like also to highlight the 'responsibility to protect'. This represents a step forward in the quest for solutions to the most glaring injustices. In the aftermath of the genocides that marked our last century, we solemnly pledged that such atrocities would never happen again. Let me now turn to good governance, which is essential if our efforts to create a more stable and prosperous world are to be successful. The summit outcome document repeatedly underlines its importance, and rightly so. Good governance is not a moralistic concept imposed from the outside. It is not about giving good or bad grades, and even less about good and bad students. It is not for others to say what are good policies and what are bad policies. No ó good governance is synonymous with effective governance and goes hand in hand with sovereignty. It is about governance that can produce results, make a difference for citizens and create fertile ground for development. Without it, the support of the international community cannot produce the desired results. Without it, the aid of the international community will not find the fertile ground essential to create the conditions for greater prosperity and stability. We have pledged to attain the objective of allocating 0.7 per cent of our gross national product to official development assistance. We will keep our promise. But we are aware that development is not only a question of money; first and foremost, it is a question of the effective use of resources. The necessary conditions must be established. What matters is the outcome on the ground. Poverty is not inevitable; all peoples have a future that belongs to them. They must take charge of it. We accordingly have stated, in paragraph 11 of the summit outcome document (resolution 60/1), 'good governance and the rule of law ... are essential for sustained economic growth, sustainable development and the eradication of poverty and hunger'. In the same outcome document, we also clearly reaffirmed our commitment to good governance and the rule of law, and reaffirmed that each country must take responsibility for its own development. Those are the terms of our global partnership for development, as set out in the Millennium Declaration, the Monterrey Consensus and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation. All components of the international community have demonstrated generosity. That is particularly true of the European Union. But the international community can hardly be held responsible for the failure of States to protect or assist all or part of their populations. It is difficult to understand why today we must launch donor appeals to deal with the large-scale destruction of houses by a Government that deliberately leaves some 500,000 of its citizens homeless. That reasoning with regard to the subject of good governance also applies to the similar concepts of democracy and the rule of law. Those are extremely important objectives, both for the development of our societies and for the security of States. But, neither democracy nor the rule of law can be artificially imposed from outside. This is not about dictating exogenous models; we must take a bottom-up approach in creating suitable conditions for the emergence of mechanisms that ensure people's equitable participation in their own governance, in a spirit of inclusivity. In that regard, our first priorities should be the modernization of societies and States and the emancipation of women and children and their inclusion in the global dynamic. Past experience shows that the shortest path to democracy and the rule of law is the modernization of society. The role - indeed, the responsibility - of the international community is to galvanize that modernization process. We have a great responsibility. Before the end of the year, the Peacebuilding Commission must be established. We also have the task of making the Human Rights Council operational. I sincerely hope that the spirit that prevailed during the summit will also guide the work of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. We must continue to show determination, perseverance and vision in carrying out our work. Only through constant commitment will we make the United Nations the primary instrument for international relations. 12 That is the important task ahead of us. Our own credibility is at stake. We must once again make the United Nations the instrument par excellence of our strategy to build a more stable and more prosperous world for all. Our peoples demand that. Belgium is willing to rise to that challenge and to shoulder its responsibilities.On behalf of my delegation, I wish to express my sincere congratulations on your election as President of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. May I wish you and the members of the Bureau full success and assure you of my delegation’s full support and cooperation. I would like to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, who during his mandate substantially contributed greatly to reviving discussion of United Nations reform and activities for development and international cooperation. I would also like to congratulate warmly the Secretary-General for his courageous initiatives to give our Organization new momentum and further the fundamental ideals and principles of the United Nations. Mr. Hachani (Tunisia), Vice-President, took the Chair. This session is of special importance for the Member States and the Organization itself because it takes place at a time when States are asked to speak about thorough-going reforms of the Organization in order to permit it to deal with the triple challenge of development, peace and security and the promotion and defence of human rights. The summit just held on progress in achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) was not as successful as we had hoped it would be. We can be gratified, however, that we were able, despite the difficulties, to adopt a final document reaffirming the Goals and the Monterrey Consensus on Financing for Development, adopted in 2002. For the first time, we were also able to condemn all acts of terrorism, regardless of motive, of who commits them and of where they are committed. My delegation hopes that we will, during this sixtieth session, be able to adopt a general, comprehensive convention on international terrorism and set up a Human Rights Council. Efforts to achieve greater justice in international economic relations have not been as successful as we had hoped. The gap between the developed and developing countries is widening. The economies of the developing countries are deteriorating and, in some cases, their citizens are becoming pauperized on a broad scale. The countries of the third world are being thwarted in their efforts to develop, labouring under the weight of indebtedness, the volatility in commodity prices, barriers to access to the markets of developed countries, inadequate official development assistance and scarce financial resources, not to mention the conflicts and various pandemics afflicting our populations. I would like to point out that indebtedness is a form of bondage and indebted economies are economies that function under constraints. Finding a durable, innovative and daring solution to this problem is one of the prerequisites for any resumption of growth, not only in heavily indebted countries, but in most developing countries. This is why my delegation welcomes the recent decision to cancel the debt of 18 developing countries, while we deplore, as other delegations have, the limited scope of that decision. We would like it to be extended to all African countries. 5 The effective liberalization of international trade can generate sufficient resources for African economies and thus fund various education, health and infrastructure programmes. Unfortunately, customs and trade barriers that bear down on African exports, as well as subsidies to agriculture in the Western countries, cancel out the development efforts of the African countries that are already labouring under the burden of debt. Debt alone consumes four times more budget resources than those we need for education and health. That is why I would like to associate my country’s voice with the call for justice and equity in seeking sustainable solutions to problems arising from the multilateral trade system. Here, I draw particular attention to access for our products to developed markets and the subsidies and other forms of domestic support granted by the wealthy countries to their farmers, which impair the competitiveness of our products on world markets. The great challenges facing the world cannot be met unless we do it in the overall context of sustained solidarity. That is why Côte d’Ivoire is glad to see new initiatives put forward by Member States to mobilize additional funds or increase funds aimed at fostering development in poor countries. We congratulate the proponents of those initiatives. We would like, inter alia, to mention the allocation of special drawing rights and coordinated measures to encourage voluntary private contributions, the international financial facility presented by the British Government, which has been supported by some developed countries, and a reduction in the price of transferring funds from migrants to their countries of origin. In some States, those remittances constitute 65 per cent of all development assistance. We would also like to mention the contribution of a solidarity surcharge on air tickets in favour of sustained development, a proposal presented by Germany, Brazil, Chile and France in September 2004 that seeks to combat hunger, poverty and fund sustainable development, in particular as regards combating HIV/AIDS and other pandemics. We hope that such new sources of financing along with, and as a complement to, traditional financing resources will effectively contribute to combating poverty in the world and bring us closer to attaining the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Attaining the MDGs is a source of hope for the Côte d’Ivoire, which has for some years now been trying to emerge from the socio-political crisis that has ravaged our country. In the first national Ivorian report on the MDGs, which was issued in 2003 based on the data provided in regard to each of the eight development goals, it clearly appears that the Goals will be difficult to achieve by 2015 if the international community does not continue to provide financial support, including the cancelling of our considerable foreign debt. So, I would like to reiterate the appeal of the Government of National Reconciliation to the United Nations and to development partners, both bilateral and multilateral, to help us more in facing the new challenges of rebuilding the country, in particular, reintegrating internally displaced persons and rehabilitating our infrastructure, be they educational, health-related, cultural, or environmental. No country can develop and protect its population from need, if it cannot take effective measures against the diseases devastating it, such as malaria, tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS and other contagious diseases, which pose a serious threat to the entire world, particularly the poor countries, and which represent obstacles to the realization of development goals. That is why my delegation feels that the international community should intensify and coordinate its efforts aimed at providing access to generic medicines for patients in developing countries, including antiretrovirals. When the time comes, Côte d’Ivoire will fully support the world initiative to be launched in 2006 aimed at strengthening the health systems in developing countries by 2010. As regards human rights, my delegation is gratified by efforts made by the United Nations to bring about respect for the human person and to combat impunity in Côte d’Ivoire. We particularly appreciate the visit by the High Commissioner for Human Rights last July, the visits by various commissions to investigate the situation and the visits by Special Rapporteurs. The Government is still waiting to hear the results of the latest international investigation, carried out by the United Nations from July through September 2004, covering important issues such as impunity, serious violations of human rights, international humanitarian law and mercenaries. Trafficking in children has become an increasing problem in Africa and particularly in the countries of West Africa. West African leaders are aware that only by fighting together against this shameful trafficking will they be able to overcome it. That is why, in addition to the bilateral agreements already established 6 and at the initiative of Côte d’Ivoire, nine West African States, meeting on 27 July 2005 in Abidjan, adopted a multilateral cooperation agreement to combat trafficking in children in West Africa. This multilateral legal instrument contains binding obligations on all the States Parties and specific obligations for countries of origin and destination of children who are the victims of child trafficking. As regards the resolution of conflicts on the African continent, there has been notable progress throughout the year. We are encouraged by positive developments in Sudan, Burundi, Liberia, Sierra Leone and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which includes, in some cases, the satisfactory holding of elections. Nevertheless, despite progress in conflict settlement, we must remain aware of the fact that the situations, generally speaking, remain fragile. The international community must therefore act more resolutely to help countries in conflict tackle the genuine causes of the conflict, while combating poverty, consolidating democratic institutions and promoting those countries’ economic and social development. While we can legitimately rejoice at the resolution of certain conflicts, we must note that, deplorably, certain situations are still far from settled. This is the case in my country, which has not yet found the road to peace, despite the many efforts made by the international community through various initiatives over the past three years, in particular the Linas- Marcoussis, Accra and Pretoria Agreements. The United Nations, through the Security Council, has invested a great deal of energy in strengthening the peace and reconciliation process in my country. We welcome all the measures taken thus far by the Security Council and are particularly encouraged by the fact that more blue helmets have been sent and that Mr. Antonio Monteiro has been appointed as the United Nations High Representative for the elections in Côte d’Ivoire. I would like to avail myself of this opportunity to thank the international community, in particular President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa and other regional and subregional heads of State and organizations, for their readiness to help and for their untiring efforts to bring about a peaceful solution to the Ivorian crisis. As I stand here before you, the process is practically at a deadlock and the presidential election planned for 30 October will not be held on that date. Holding free, fair and transparent elections within a reasonable time frame remains the main objective to be attained if we are to have sustainable peace in Côte d’Ivoire. Nevertheless, the following priority tasks must first be carried out: disarming and dismantling of militias throughout the country; the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants, following an initial pre-assembly; the restoration of State administration throughout the national territory; the identification of electors and the establishment of electoral rolls — and, in that connection, the soon-to- be-operational Independent Electoral Commission is a bright note; and the provision of funds for disarmament, demobilization and reintegration and the electoral process. Despite the current stagnation in the peace and reconciliation process, the Ivorian Government implores the international community not to be overcome by disappointment, discouragement or irritation. We invite it to participate more intensively and resolutely in finding solutions to the fundamental problems of the crisis, which, alone, can guarantee the return of a lasting and stable peace in my country and reconcile all our sons and daughters. In that regard, the Security Council must remain actively seized of the case of Côte d’Ivoire, which must be kept on its agenda. In the same connection, the United Nations should, in my delegation’s opinion, seriously consider imposing sanctions on all persons who are guilty of serious human rights violations, inciting hatred and violence, obstructing the peace process or violating the arms embargo throughout the country. The Ivorian people need peace. We realize that this is primarily the responsibility of the Ivorian people themselves. Nevertheless, without the steadfast support of the international community, peace will be difficult to achieve. Therefore, I call upon our common Organization to shoulder its responsibilities and become even more involved and more active in our national peace and reconciliation process. That is its mandate and the goal of its commitment under Chapter VII of the Charter.I would like to express congratulations and support to the President of the General Assembly for having chosen as the theme of our debate, “For a stronger and more effective United Nations: follow-up to and implementation of decisions made in the High-level Plenary Meeting of September 2005”. Ten years before the target date, we are still faced with doubts and questions about the actual achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), particularly in Africa. There are two interconnected elements at the heart of this matter: States’ development policies; and the effective fulfilment of the commitments entered into by the international community. I have no intention of evaluating national policies, but it is clear that the achievement of the MDGs will require far-reaching adjustments in our national policies and increased efforts to reorganize and manage our budgets. Furthermore, the emergence of a new African leadership, which is bringing us together again in our commitment to promoting development, democracy, peace and political stability, is an opportunity for the international community to provide more consistent support for the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. Unfortunately, despite a great deal of discussion about the MDGs, we are still falling short with regard to the commitments undertaken, to the clear distress of the populations afflicted by pandemics such as malaria, tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS, which is spreading at an alarming rate. As the head of State of Cape Verde said when addressing the Assembly during the High-level Plenary Meeting last week (see A/60/PV.5), achieving the Millennium Goals and building a freer world based on higher levels of well-being, tolerance, peace and security are within reach for humankind. In order to achieve our goal, we need political will, not just statements about political will or pious expressions of hope for development. It is the responsibility of the General Assembly at this session to ensure that the summit outcome (resolution 60/1) is effectively implemented. However, there can be no doubt that the implementation of the outcome will be a test of the policies that have been set out, as well as of the negotiating skills of Member States, as we strive to achieve a better balance on international relations, further the democratization of international governance and strengthen peace and security at the regional and national levels. We must redouble our efforts this year. In the context of the reforms proposed by the Secretary-General, Cape Verde has been chosen to host the joint office initiative, with the participation of United Nations programmes and agencies in the field. May I once again reiterate my Government’s support for this initiative, while at the same time emphasizing the absolute need for there to be adequate preparation for this experiment, as well as internal adjustments consistent with the option of joint representation. We are convinced that the joint office initiative will make it possible to concentrate resources more effectively on priority challenges and the substantive aspects of development. On 5 July 2005, the Republic of Cape Verde celebrated the thirtieth anniversary of its independence; these 30 years have been marked by considerable sacrifice and effort in a country without natural resources. Throughout this period, fortunately, all the 27 development indicators have shown upward movement. Under a resolution adopted by the General Assembly in December 2004, Cape Verde has made sufficient progress to be no longer included in the list of least developed countries. This “graduation” is an explicit recognition of the work done by the people of Cape Verde; and, undoubtedly, it is also the result of the international aid provided by various partners. Therefore, I should like to take this opportunity to express to all of Cape Verde’s development partners, both present and absent in this Hall, our profound gratitude for the solidarity thus extended to us. At the risk of repeating myself, I should like to recall the following points. The “graduation” of Cape Verde is a result of the fact that the country satisfied two of the three established criteria. I am referring to the per capita income per inhabitant and the human development index. The failure to identify the third criterion, that of economic vulnerability, which is by far the most important one, illustrates the kind of fragile situations that can be experienced by a small island country that is permanently afflicted by drought and external shocks, of which the increase in oil prices is a very illustrative example. For success to be meaningful over the medium and long term, “graduation” should be accompanied by the appropriate measures needed to ensure continuity of the development process. It is of fundamental importance to define the goals, their duration and the practical modalities for this transition, and it should be done as quickly as possible. What has been achieved by Cape Verde, thanks to the judicious management of foreign aid, cannot obscure major structural vulnerabilities. Parenthetically, I would like to reiterate once again an appeal to the international community to give particular attention to the specific problems of development in small island States. We are convinced that, when Cape Verde leaves the group of least developed countries in January 2008, we will have agreed upon a common frame of reference, together with our development partners, one that is based on General Assembly resolution 59/209 and is in step with the spirit of smooth transition, where emphasis will be placed on questions of trade, financing for development, including modalities and more effective and innovative instruments that fit the needs for accelerated economic growth of a “graduated” but vulnerable country. We continue to be convinced that the development target we share with our partners must not lead to our being penalized for good governance and a positive development dynamic. For our part, we will continue to rely on the solidarity of our partners, including the United Nations. Regarding financing for development and the urgent need to adjust the practices and instruments of aid to the requirements of achieving the MDGs, I should like to comment on the decision taken by the Group of 8 to eliminate external debt. The Government of Cape Verde is delighted at the Gleneagles decision to forgive the external debt of 18 countries, mostly African ones. This is a shot of oxygen for the development process of the recipient countries. That having been said, however, the Government of Cape Verde believes that we will need to analyse the problem further in order to ensure that solutions are integrated effectively into the international agenda. On the one hand, the situation of poor countries, which are deeply indebted, requires an increase in solidarity. On the other hand, we also believe that some gesture should be made towards the medium-income countries, particularly those that are bereft of natural resources and only slightly indebted and who, at the same time, honour their debt servicing in a structural framework that is marked by budgetary constraints. Otherwise, the message underlying the decision to pardon the debt will be extremely ambiguous and could lend itself to various interpretations. I would like to end with what one normally starts with, and that is by congratulating the President on his election to lead the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. My congratulations are equally extended to Sweden, his country, which has always given invaluable assistance promoting the self-determination of peoples, world peace and development. I would also like to express my gratitude to his predecessor, Minister of State Jean Ping, for the competent and wise discharge of his functions during a period of intense and difficult negotiations. May I finally address our gratitude, encouragement and confidence to the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan. His vision of the future of the world and of the United Nations deserves to be supported by us all, so that our Organization, which belongs to all of us, can respond to the growing and complex challenges of the current world.On behalf of the delegation of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, please allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. I should also like to congratulate your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Gabonese Republic, on his commendable work as President at the previous session. I look forward to the successful outcome of this session. My appreciation also goes to Secretary- General Kofi Annan for his tireless efforts aimed at reforming the Organization to bring about multilateralism centred on the United Nations in conformity with the demands of the current changed situation. Five years ago, when the Millennium Summit adopted its Declaration of peace, poverty eradication and respect for human rights, humankind sincerely hoped that, with the dawn of a new century, peace and prosperity would take hold around the world. However, despite the adoption of that Declaration and the aspirations of humankind, the world is today being drawn further into a vortex of instability and fear due to unilateralism and the highhandedness of the super- Power. On one side of the world, voices yearning for peace, poverty eradication and sustainable development continue to grow; while on the other side provocative acts such as armed invasion and the threat 27 of pre-emptive nuclear attack are being committed openly against sovereign States. In North-East Asia alone, with the Korean peninsula at its centre, adventurous military attempts continue unabated, aggravating tension in the region, as does the strengthening of strategic military alliances, the large-scale introduction of highly sophisticated weapons and operational equipment, the establishment of missile defence systems and Ulchi Focus Lens-05 military exercises for pre-emptive strikes. The current situation is becoming increasingly acute due to arbitrariness on the part of unilateralist forces. That urgently requires that Member States undertake a joint effort to bring about multilateralism centred on the United Nations on the basis of respect for the principles of sovereignty, equality, territorial integrity and mutual benefit. As is well known, peace and stability on the Korean peninsula are directly linked to peace and security in the North-East Asian region and the rest of the world. As we have seen in recent years, the situation on the Korean peninsula is once again part of a vicious circle of tension and dÈtente that is preventing the establishment of durable peace and stability. The primary cause for that lies in the national division forced upon us by foreign forces and the extremely hostile policy of the super-Power towards the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. The Democratic People's Republic of Korea's policy of Songun Jongchi - which is to say, to give priority to military affairs - is aimed primarily at coping with the attempts of the United States to suffocate the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, which constitute a real threat. The Songun policy administered by the respected General Kim Jong Il is the basic safeguard for our sovereignty from the constant threat of the United States and for preventing another war on the Korean peninsula, thereby ensuring peace and security in North-East Asia. This year, the north and the south of Korea together significantly commemorated the fifth anniversary of the announcement of the 15 June North- South Joint Declaration, as well as the sixtieth anniversary of Korea's liberation, thereby setting a new stage for the attainment of overall national unity and the realization of the cause of national reunification independently and peacefully under the theme ìOur nation itselfî. The Government of our Republic will also make every possible effort in the future to bring about independent national reunification as soon as possible, achieve lasting peace and stability on the Korean peninsula and bring about the nation's common prosperity by thoroughly implementing the 15 June North-South Joint Declaration. With a view to facilitating better understanding on the part of Member States and making positive contributions to the work of the current session, I would like to refer to the principled position and sincere efforts of our Republic regarding a fair solution of the nuclear issue between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the United States. The Government of our Republic has consistently adhered to its position of addressing the nuclear issue peacefully, through dialogue and negotiations. As everyone knows, the nuclear issue is a direct product of the hostile policy of the United States against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea during more than half a century. Given that, driven by extreme hostility towards the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the United States has gone as far as designating our country as part of an ìaxis of evilî and making it a potential target for pre-emptive nuclear strikes, thereby militarily threatening our security, our country has been compelled to possess a self-defensive nuclear deterrent as a means of safeguarding our national dignity and sovereignty. In circumstances in which the United States, the sole world super-Power, is looking down on us and threatening to use nuclear weapons, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea - a country with a small territory and population - has no alternative but to possess a strong and legitimate means of self-defence. As we have clarified time and again, the ultimate goal of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea with regard to the nuclear issue is the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. The denuclearization of the Korean peninsula was called for by President Kim Il Sung, the fatherly leader of our people. The 1992 North-South Joint Declaration on the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and the 1994 Agreed Framework between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the United States are manifestations of the invariable political will of the Government of the Republic to denuclearize the Korean peninsula by all means. 28 During the recent fourth round of six-party talks in Beijing, we approached discussions seriously and with magnanimity and a principled, fair and above- board position to achieve our consistent final goal of the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula at any cost, thereby enabling the talks to come up with an agreement on the principles to that end as part of a broad framework to overcome all challenges. The joint statement issued at that meeting reflects our principled position on the resolution of the nuclear issue. At the same time, it also clearly specifies the obligations of the United States and South Korea as the parties responsible for the denuclearization of the entire Korean peninsula. As we have clarified more than once, there will be no need for the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to keep a single nuclear weapon if relations are normalized between our country and the United States, bilateral confidence is built and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is not exposed to the United States nuclear threat any longer. What is most essential at this stage is for the United States to provide light-water reactors to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea as soon as possible as evidence of the former's substantial recognition of the latter's right to peaceful nuclear activities. We shall watch closely how the United States acts in reality during the ìaction for actionî phase. Our country's Government will continue to be patient and to do its best to bring about the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. If the United Nations is to fulfil its mission to ensure international peace and security and economic and social development, it should be reformed in conformity with the demands of the new century. That is the unanimous view of the international community. In that regard, it is important that we take a multilateral approach centred on the United Nations and in line with the purposes and principles of the Charter. To that end, efforts should be made to, inter alia, prevent unilateralism and high-handedness leading to violations of the Charter and of international law, and to ensure that the functions and role of the United Nations in addressing major international issues remain pivotal. Disputes should be resolved peacefully, through dialogue and negotiation. The unilateral use of force can never be justified in any case. Such actions as authorizing specific countries to launch pre-emptive attacks on the pretext of preventing conflicts should not be viewed as strengthening the collective security system of the United Nations and should therefore be rejected, as they are dangerous attempts to ignore both the principles of non-interference in others' internal affairs, as well as respect for sovereignty, as stipulated in the Charter. Secondly, all important international issues should be addressed fairly and reasonably, in the interests of the overwhelming majority of Member States. We should not allow them to be dominated or dealt with by the super-Power or by a few powerful countries. In this context, we have been consistent in our insistence on the establishment of a system that mandates the General Assembly to review and endorse Security Council resolutions relating to sanctions and the use of force that can affect international peace and security. The Security Council should be reformed on the basis of the principle of ensuring the full representation of the non-aligned and developing countries, which make up the overwhelming majority of Member States. We should never tolerate the permanent membership of Japan, which refuses to liquidate its past crimes against other countries, distorting its history of aggression and driving the regional situation towards confrontation. The reform of the United Nations human rights machinery should take place in accordance with the demands of the majority of countries. In reforming the human rights machinery, the Organization should consider its most pressing task and ultimate goal to be putting an end to infringement on national sovereignty, the politicization of human rights and the application of double standards and selectivity, which are the most serious human rights violations at present. Like the reform of the Security Council, that reform effort should be carried out on the basis of the principle of ensuring the full representation of the non-aligned and developing countries that make up the overwhelming majority of the United Nations membership. If that principle is ignored, the reform of the human rights machinery will remain just empty talk. Worse still, if the establishment of the Human Rights Council is aimed at legitimizing the high-handedness of a few countries on the pretext of human rights protection, the discussion itself will be completely meaningless. 29 The Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea will continue to make an active contribution to the efforts of Member States to build a new, peaceful and prosperous world by further strengthening its friendly and cooperative relations with all countries that respect our national sovereignty in accordance with the ideal of independence, peace and friendship.On behalf of my delegation and on my own behalf I would like to extend our warm congratulations to President Eliasson on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session and to ensure him of our cooperation in carrying out his noble mission. I would also like to congratulate his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, who guided our work with tact, skill and competence throughout his term, in spite of the delicate and complex issues that were on the agenda during the fifty-ninth session. It is clear that the results that we have reached in recent years, both in terms of peacekeeping and in our approach to development issues, have been made possible by the commendable commitment and devotion of each and every Member, at all levels of engagement and responsibility. I would specifically like to underscore the valuable contribution of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, to whom I pay a well deserved tribute. In his report, entitled “In larger freedom: towards development, security and human rights for all” (A/59/2005), our Secretary-General submitted specific proposals that we rightfully believe are appropriate solutions to our shared concerns. Effective implementation of those measures will enhance the effectiveness and credibility of the United Nations and will help us to meet the myriad challenges facing today’s world. A few days ago the heads of State and Government reviewed the international situation from the standpoint of the Millennium Declaration adopted in 2000 and the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. The conclusions clearly indicate the magnitude of the task that still remains to be accomplished, despite the efforts made by Member States and their national constituents. Those conclusions, which corroborate the analysis of the Secretary-General, tell us that times have changed and that the world — while it still bears scars from the past — has already entered into the future. Today, we are seeing the unparalleled impoverishment of many countries and peoples, as well as the emergence of new abhorrent phenomena, such as terrorism and transboundary crime, not to mention the pandemic of HIV/AIDS and the resurgence of other communicable diseases. Given those formidable developments, it is absolutely necessary to build a new international society that is more caring, more just and better managed, with the United Nations at its centre. For its part, the Government of Chad, since the establishment of democracy in 1990, has planned and implemented a vast programme of institutional transformation that promotes social and economic development, peace and security, both domestic and external. Moreover, we held a constitutional referendum in June to amend a number of provisions — a clear demonstration of our concern to adapt our institutions to present-day demands, as well as an opportunity for our people to renew their confidence in those institutions. While our country has achieved sufficient stability within, that is not true of our borders. We are suffering from the impacts of an insecurity that is prevalent among our neighbours, particularly in the Central African Republic and the Sudan, with which Chad shares very long borders. Therefore, prompted by our border security concerns, we have undertaken mediation initiatives to reconcile the belligerents. For those reasons, the Government of Chad took the initiative to bring together the parties to the conflict in Darfur, at Abéché, Chad, in September 2003, to make them listen to reason. Since then, the Government has worked continually and actively towards helping to reach a negotiated solution to that conflict, with support from the African Union and representatives of the international community. Moreover, in spite of his heavy schedule, President Idriss Deby has become personally involved in trying to bring about a pacific settlement to that fratricidal conflict. Chad’s mediation led to the conclusion of the N’Djamena and the Abuja agreements in Nigeria, where talks are still under way to find a comprehensive political agreement and to put an end once and for all to the crisis that has gone on for far too long. Chad will continue to act as a mediator so that one day the western region of the Sudan can at long last regain its calm and stability. We deplore the violations of the ceasefire that are currently taking place in Darfur and hope that they will cease. We must welcome the formation of the new Government of the Sudan and we are hoping that that will be an opportunity for an acceleration of the peace process of Abuja. In Chad, we are duty-bound to work with our brothers in the Sudan, with whom we have historical 8 and geographic ties. But we should not lose sight of the impacts and consequences of the conflict, which have taken a heavy toll, in particular on the border populations. For instance, Chad took a fully sovereign decision to welcome more than 200,000 Sudanese refugees and is providing many forms of support to other humanitarian institutions that are operating in the affected zone. Indeed, the disruption of trade, the deterioration of major roads by humanitarian convoys and all the other costs eat up our meagre resources and are the most common source of political unrest among our own people, who feel that they have been abandoned. Given the scarcity of our resources and the immense needs of refugees and populations in refugee areas, the Government of Chad is counting on substantial assistance from the international community. The positive developments in the situation in the Central African Republic are facilitating the restoration of constitutional order in that brotherly country. However, the incidence of crime spilling across that country’s common borders with Chad and Cameroon is increasing. That phenomenon has caused a new flow of Central African refugees into Chad and they live in very difficult conditions. We call upon the international community to devote greater attention to their plight. We welcome the initiative taken in that regard by the United Nations Peacebuilding Support Office in the Central African Republic, which brought together representatives of Cameroon, Chad and the Central African Republic at Yaoundé on 26 and 27 August to consider the phenomenon of insecurity on their common borders and to find solutions to it. Of course, the insecurity on our borders should not cause us to lose sight of other crises in Africa and throughout the world. In Africa, we welcome the developments in Guinea-Bissau, Burundi and Liberia, to mention only those brotherly countries. Undoubtedly, the issue of their reconstruction will have an important place on the agendas of those countries, of the African Union and of the rest of the world. On the other hand, the situation in Côte d’Ivoire continues to concern us. President Mbeki’s mediation has not been able to lead — as had been hoped — to the immediate holding of presidential elections. We urge our Ivorian brethren to engage in dialogue. In the Middle East, the persistence of the Israeli- Arab conflict continues to poison relations in the subregion, even while the withdrawal from the Gaza Strip is a tangible element in recent developments. We are convinced that it is only through dialogue that a just and lasting solution to that conflict can be found. With regard to the disagreement between the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan, we appreciate Taiwan’s tireless efforts to reach a peaceful solution. The international community must encourage the two parties to accept each other. The readmission of Taiwan into the United Nations, which we believe to be a legitimate demand of that country, would be the point of departure for such acceptance. The interdependence of the concepts of development, peace and security is the basis of our country’s support for the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The Millennium Declaration was undoubtedly a strong signal from the partnership of rich and poor countries in favour of a fairer, more balanced and more united world. In itself, it is a great endeavour that could lead to the consolidation of global efforts. My country has set for itself the same objectives in its development strategies, plans and programmes as are found in the Millennium Declaration, particularly our national poverty reduction strategy and our national strategy for good governance. Undoubtedly, for most of our countries, achieving the MDGs is not very likely, particularly in the areas of promoting peace and security, good governance and economic and social reforms. There is in Chad, however, a consensus regarding the need for sustained progress on those issues and in other areas related to social, economic and political life. The Government of Chad is, therefore, focusing in particular on activities relating to the protection of children, the promotion of maternal health, the education of girls and the social and professional integration of underprivileged groups, particularly women, the elderly and the disabled. In that connection, there is no doubt that the partnership between civil society and the private sector is being strongly encouraged. I am not unaware that many delegations may wonder about the current situation with regard to socio-economic development in Chad following the exploitation of oil there. The fact that Chad joined the small circle of oil exporting countries two years ago, although it caused some euphoria in my country, has 9 not attracted the expected financial resources. Unfortunately, Chad, under the agreements linking it to the oil consortium, benefits from only a small proportion of the revenues resulting from its oil. We continue to need the cooperation and assistance of friendly countries to supplement our resources, which still fall short of our needs. Such cooperation is essential if we are to carry out our development and anti-poverty programmes. As members are aware, my country’s development depends partly on the cotton crop, which unfortunately is in a state of crisis that is becoming endemic. That crop, which provides a living for much of Chad’s population, is dangerously threatened by the protectionist practices of developed countries. In fact, our cotton producers are victims of the subsidy policies of countries that are supposed to comply with the rules of international trade. Measures must be taken to limit the effects of the market economy, which is increasingly restricting our weak economies. We believe that well-regulated economic trade would ensure sustainable development for the least advanced countries and would help to build confidence among States. We are uncertain of reaching a political solution to the cotton problem, despite the hopes placed in continued multilateral trade negotiations within the framework of the Doha Round. It is no longer certain that developed countries will agree to abandon their subsidy practices and implement radical changes in the current system to meet the expectations of African cotton growers. That would leave no choice but to resort to political and legal action under the provisions of the statutes and rules of the World Trade Organization with a view to regulating the cotton market through measures to compensate the losses suffered by our producers. Most Member States had hoped that this sixtieth session of the General Assembly would finally achieve the democratization of the United Nations. That does not yet seem to be the case. But we must not lose momentum, and we must continue to work to ensure that that objective is attained in the near future. The revitalization of the General Assembly and of the Economic and Social Council and the transformation of the Commission on Human Rights into an important United Nations body, as suggested by the Secretary- General, would enable the Organization to be more effective. In such a restructuring, which remains relevant, the issue of Security Council expansion is of interest to Member States, particularly those of Africa — and quite rightly, because we know that since the creation of the United Nations in 1945, no African State has had a seat on the Council as a permanent member with the right of the veto. That injustice seriously mars the credibility of the United Nations, and it is time to rectify it. Our position regarding a new configuration for the Security Council remains that which has been reaffirmed many times by the African Union. It reflects our firm will to participate in the efforts of the international community under United Nations auspices aimed at ensuring the maintenance of peace and security, which are guarantees for sustainable economic and social development.On behalf of the delegation of Thailand, I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. The General Assembly’s task this year is as crucial as the one that Mr. Jean Ping, your predecessor, has just completed. My delegation truly appreciated the strong leadership of Mr. Ping during one of the most challenging periods for the United Nations. My delegation’s appreciation also goes to the Secretary-General for his tireless efforts and active role. Permit me at the outset to express my heartfelt condolences to the American people for the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina. Having suffered from the Asian tsunami ourselves last December, our hearts are truly with the American people. In the aftermath of the tsunami, we were deeply touched by the outpouring of support coming to us from around the world. Our friends were determined to do everything possible to help us get through our darkest days. The Thai people shared this spirit, and we also lent a hand to our neighbours suffering from the same calamity. We are seeing the whole world show the same spirit of shared responsibility coming to the United States in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. We need to move forward with this same spirit, this same sense of shared responsibility, as we tackle the old and new challenges of our modern world of globalization. There is certainly much to do. In many countries, extreme poverty, hunger, deadly infectious diseases and environmental degradation continue to do damage. They are silent killers. We cannot and must not ignore them. Every day, 50,000 people continue to perish from poverty and hunger; 30,000 children will not survive to celebrate their fifth birthday. Yet, money being spent on arms and weapons continues to outpace money being spent on sustaining lives. This is unacceptable. Sixty years ago, the desire to achieve unity in diversity with shared responsibility led to the creation of the United Nations. Now at 60, the United Nations is living in a world very different from that of 1945. Today, challenges to human security and economic development can be just as dangerous to the international community as traditional challenges in 20 the form of military conflicts. The United Nations must be able to act effectively to serve the world’s peoples. The outcome document that was adopted by the High-level Plenary Meeting of the General Assembly (resolution 60/1) reflects the shared commitment of world leaders to development, peace and security, as well as human rights and human dignity. It sets the stage for the attainment of peace and prosperity throughout the world. As difficult as it was to reach a consensus on the outcome document, I believe that it will be even more difficult to translate this consensus into concrete action. The road ahead will not be an easy one to travel. We must stay focused on our common aspirations as we face the difficulties that lie ahead. Thailand intends to work with the United Nations and with all Member States to ensure that the vision of our leaders and the aspirations of our peoples lead to concrete results. We will actively participate in addressing issues such as the revitalization of the General Assembly, the strengthening of the Economic and Social Council, the reform of the Security Council and the establishment of the Human Rights Council. We see merit in the idea of collective responsibility to protect people from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. To achieve lasting peace and prosperity, Thailand strongly supports the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission as a mechanism to ensure sustainable post-conflict recovery and development. We also want to see extensive management reform to make the Secretariat more efficient, more effective, and also more accountable. We must redouble our efforts to break the vicious circle of poverty, disease and conflicts. The challenge of our time is to make peace, prosperity, dignity and freedom common to all. As Chair of the Human Security Network, we are pleased that a human-centred approach to security has been embraced as an integral part of the new collective security consensus. The eradication of poverty must not be only a dream. We must make it happen. The United Nations must mobilize all relevant agencies and marshal resources to help developing countries progress in a sustainable way. Developing countries must be able to identify and leverage their inner strengths and their comparative advantages. Capacity-building and technical assistance should be readily available. With the right policies and strategies as well as the appropriate infrastructure, developing countries can leapfrog up the development ladder in our modern world by making full use of globalization. In that connection, we in Thailand have adopted a people-centred development policy which stands side by side with democracy and good governance. At the international level, we are actively pursuing trade and investment liberalization. This is our dual-track policy. National efforts must be backed by a supportive global environment. That means making international trade free and fair, so that it can be an effective engine for sustainable development. When we talk about free trade, we must be mindful that not everyone is equally fit to compete in the same system of free competition. Two days ago, from this same rostrum, my Prime Minister emphasized that a patient who has just been released from the intensive care unit of a hospital cannot run a race under the same rules and conditions as a fit athlete. That is so true. Thailand welcomes the reaffirmation of the Monterrey Consensus and other proposals on innovative financing for development. Financial assistance given to developing countries must go towards empowering the recipient countries. We must avoid creating more dependency traps. We must work together on the basis of partnership for sustainable development. Partnership is also vital in the area of energy. The rapid rise in global oil prices is very harmful to development and has the potential to roll back many of the hard-won gains of developing countries. The higher the price of oil, the longer it will take for many developing countries to realize the Millennium Development Goals. The United Nations should help to mobilize worldwide cooperation to ensure energy security as well as to develop alternative sources of clean energy. The United Nations must also do more to promote synergy among Member States through the facilitation of partnership building, such as North- South, South-South and trilateral cooperation. We want to see a new and enhanced strategic partnership for development between the United Nations and its Member States. 21 In South-East Asia, that is the spirit that is transforming the region. For its part, Thailand has been reaching out to forge partnerships for development worldwide. Through regional cooperation for development initiatives, such as the Ayeyawady-Chao Phraya-Mekong Economic Cooperation Strategy (ACMECS); the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multisectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC); and the Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD), Thailand is constructing layers of building blocks that support the development work of the United Nations. We have shown through our actions that assistance for development is not just a one-way road from North to South. The countries of the South can significantly help one another to prosper together through South-South cooperation. Here, we in Thailand have been working closely with other developing countries, sharing our experiences and best practices, especially in areas in which Thailand has expertise, such as agricultural development and public health. Marginalization breeds resentment and anger, both of which are fertile ground for extremism to flourish. Development helps to prevent this. Putting a human face on globalization is as vital as it is urgent. Together, we can create an environment conducive to turning back the tide of violent extremism and discrediting the appeal of terrorism. Religious and cultural identities must also be recognized and respected. This is unity in diversity. This is the path of moderation and understanding. This is also a peaceful way to fight violence and terrorism. Here, we must condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, by whomever committed, wherever and for whatever purposes. We have so much on our agenda. The road ahead will not be an easy one. We must work together to ensure that we can build strength from diversity, with a very strong sense of shared responsibility. Let us make the United Nations truly serve the people, no matter who they are and no matter where they are. Let us ensure that “We the peoples of the United Nations” can truly live our lives “in larger freedom”, as envisioned by our founding fathers 60 years ago.Allow me to extend to you, Sir, our sincere congratulations on your assumption of the presidency of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly and to express our confidence in your ability 05-51226 5 to guide our work throughout the session. In the same breath, let me also express our appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for managing successfully the very difficult business of the fifty-ninth session. Although we began our last session with a weighty agenda, we were able to reach general agreement on a number of important issues in the area of development. We are yet to agree on other pressing issues, such as the reform of the Security Council and the composition of a new Human Rights Council. For many years we have spoken in favour of an approach to international peace and security that is firmly rooted in the principle of multilateralism and the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. We maintain that any diversion from this approach is unacceptable, undesirable and devoid of legal justification. We are pleased to note that the majority of views expressed during the last session reinforced that principle. Our expectation is that the Security Council in its current form, or in whatever character and composition it will eventually take, will, like all other bodies of the United Nations, limit itself to what is contained in its mandate. We do not subscribe to the suggestion that all problems — social, cultural, economic and health, among others — are necessarily threats to international peace and security and should therefore be referred to the Security Council. Recently we witnessed the United Kingdom abusing its privilege and acting dishonestly as a member of the Council by seeking to score cheap political points in its bilateral dispute with us. We were dragged on to the Council’s agenda over an issue that has no relevance to the maintenance of international peace and security. Let me pay tribute to those members of the Security Council who saw through this cheap politicking and manipulation of procedures — which the same country, by the way, has vowed to resume as soon as the Council is appropriately chaired. It is my hope that other Member countries will join us in rejecting this neocolonialist attempt and blatant interference in the internal affairs of Zimbabwe. But then, is it not obvious, that Britain under the regime of Tony Blair has ceased to respect the Charter of the United Nations? Witness its being a principal member of the illegal anti-Iraq coalition that went on a devastating campaign in that country in complete defiance of the United Nations Charter. Any State or group of States that commits such an act of aggression on another, justifying it on blatant falsehoods, surely becomes guilty of State terrorism. Zimbabwe is a country at peace with itself and with its neighbours and offers absolutely no threat to international peace and security. Is it not therefore surprising that Britain and its Anglo-Saxon allies have embarked on a vicious campaign of first peddling blatant lies intended to tarnish it and then appealing to Europe and America for sanctions against it? Those imperialist countries have unashamedly abused the power of the media by hypocritically portraying themselves as philanthropists and international saviours of victims of various calamities. Yet they have remained silent about the shocking circumstances of obvious State neglect surrounding the tragic Gulf coast disaster, where a whole community of mainly non-whites was deliberately abandoned to the ravages of Hurricane Katrina as sacrificial lambs, and sacrificed to which god one cannot tell. Most of the victims were blacks. And we are bound to ask what transgressions we, the blacks of this world, have committed? Was it not enough punishment and suffering in history that we were uprooted and made helpless slaves, not only in new colonial outposts but also domestically at home, through a vicious system of colonialism that made us landless, propertyless and mere slaves and serfs in our own lands? Must we again in this day of humanitarian ethics, this day of the sacred principles of the equality of mankind and the rights of men and women, this day that has seen us assemble here to save, enhance and prolong life, become victims of callous racial neglect? We of Africa protest that in this day and age we should continue to be treated as lesser human beings than other races. We reiterate our deep sympathies and condolences over the massive loss of life that occurred in the Hurricane Katrina disaster. If, as we are told, many who survived the wrath of Hurricane Katrina are still dispersed, the question we ask ourselves is where they are and for how long will they remain where they are. We ask further whether they will ever get back, truly rehabilitated, to their original homes — properly rehabilitated also, homes which at present are mere wreckages. Where, I ask, are the Zimbabwe-famous United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN- HABITAT) and the Commission on Human Rights?  6 05-51226 Why should they maintain an ominous silence? For here is real homeless work for HABITAT and the Commission on Human Rights. This indeed is where they rightly belong and not anywhere in Zimbabwe. We do not need them there. With reference to the vexatious issue of the reform of the Security Council, we have made our views known through the African Union. We seek fair and equal treatment as partners in this community of nations and pledge our commitment to work with others in pursuit of that objective. The promotion of human rights is one of the major aims of the United Nations as enshrined in its Charter. As such, the subject rightly occupies space on the agenda of each session of the General Assembly, including this one. We believe that the United Nations should make every effort to promote and protect the full enjoyment of human rights, including the right to development. Regrettably, we have seen over the years a deliberate tendency to create a distorted hierarchy of rights, with the sole mischievous purpose of overplaying civil and political rights while downplaying economic, social and cultural rights. That explains why the whole human rights agenda, instead of being a cooperative exercise, has degenerated into a Western-managed kangaroo court, always looking out for “criminals”, as they call them, among developing countries. Hence, we continue to argue that the human rights discourse needs to be rid of selectivity and double standards and to be approached without hidden political agendas. The African Union has indicated its support for the establishment of a Human Rights Council that will be subordinated to the General Assembly. Zimbabwe subscribes fully to that position. We believe, however, that a correctly sized and properly structured Council, with equitable geographical representation, will be a major step in addressing the deficiencies of the current Commission on Human Rights. At the beginning of the last session (see A/59/PV.5) I informed the Assembly that despite the recurrent droughts that we had experienced, Zimbabwe had the capacity to cope with its situation of hunger and was thus not appealing for humanitarian intervention. In spite of that message, our detractors and ill-wishers have been projecting a false picture of mass starvation. There has been none of that. Recently, particularly in the aftermath of our urban clean-up operation, popularly known at home as Operation Murambatsvina, or Operation Restore Order, the familiar noises re-echoed from the same malicious prophets of doom claiming that there was a humanitarian crisis in Zimbabwe. Those unfounded alarms are aimed at deliberately tarnishing the image of Zimbabwe and projecting it as a failed State. We find it strange and obviously anomalous that the Government of Zimbabwe should be maligned and condemned for restoring order and the rule of law in its municipal areas. Our detractors fail to acknowledge that Operation Restore Order soon gave way to a well- planned, vast reconstruction programme through which properly planned accommodation, factory shells and vending stalls are being constructed in many areas of the country for our people. We have rejected the scandalous demand, as expressed in Special Envoy Anna Tibaijuka’s report, that we lower our urban housing standards to allow for mud huts, bush latrines and pit toilets as suitable for our urban people and for Africans generally. Nothing can be more insulting and degrading of a people than that. Surely we do not need development in reverse. Let me conclude by making my message to our detractors very simple and clear. The people of Zimbabwe came through a protracted guerrilla struggle to establish themselves as a free — I emphasize “free” — and sovereign nation. We indeed went through long and bitter times to get our freedom and independence, and to be where we are today. We cherish that hard-won freedom and independence, and no amount of coercion, political, economic or otherwise, will make us a colony again. But we also cherish peace and development and good regional and international relations. Together with all other nations of good will, we will continue to work tirelessly for a just, peaceful and prosperous world. It is an honour and privilege for me to present my country’s statement, as commanded by His Majesty King Mswati III. I am happy to convey the greetings and best wishes of His Majesty King Mswati III, Her Majesty the Queen Mother, and the entire Swazi nation. On behalf of my delegation, I wish to congratulate Mr. Eliasson on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. The Kingdom of Swaziland is confident that his diplomatic skills and vast experience in international affairs will guide the work of the General Assembly to a successful conclusion as it faces the daunting task of reform and change. We wish also to recognize the work done by his predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, Minister of Foreign Affairs 23 of Gabon, who ably steered the last session so as to set the stage for change in the year 2005. He hands over the leadership of this body at a crucial time — a time when we have to take concrete and firm action to effect such change. We wish him well and every success in his future endeavours. This is a momentous occasion, as we are celebrating the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations at a time when we are charting a course and adopting clear guidelines for adapting the Organization to the effective role it must play in the new century. We have also taken on the responsibility and challenge of ensuring that the United Nations of the twenty-first century can make real improvements in the lives of the peoples of the world. Given the contributions of the United Nations to world peace, economic and social development and the observance of human rights, we are reaffirming our faith in the Organization, and we will continue to work to achieve the objectives of the Charter through the strengthening and revitalization of the United Nations system. In the last five years, the international community has witnessed a mixed bag of successes, trials and tribulations whose consequences have been felt across the globe. The scale of some of these man-made problems and natural disasters — such as terrorism, war, the tsunami and Hurricane Katrina — was unprecedented. It is because of some of these incidents that, for the first time in its existence, the United Nations has been challenged in its pivotal role of maintaining global peace, security and safety. Fortunately, the United Nations has remained undeterred, and that is due in particular to the astute leadership of our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, whose diplomatic skills and efforts to unite — tested as they have been — have managed to keep the Organization focused as it deals with the critical issues confronting the international community today. For those reasons, the Kingdom of Swaziland believes that this session presents an opportunity for us to advance further the reform process in order not only to make the Organization efficient and effective, but also to ensure that the programmes of action adopted at past global conferences are fully implemented. We therefore welcome the decisions taken at the recently concluded Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) review summit. These will indeed set us on course to have a significant impact on each and every country’s socio-political and economic development. Our quest for a safer and secure world continues to be challenged. The recent spate of terrorist bombings in various parts of the world is a clear indication that we have to fight that growing scourge with urgency. The adoption of the 13 conventions covering different aspects of terrorism demonstrates our unwavering commitment to this course. The Kingdom of Swaziland supports the Secretary-General’s call for the drafting of a comprehensive instrument that will enable us to collectively and effectively fight terrorism. Tensions and conflicts within and among States, which are detrimental to development and productivity, continue to affect many parts of the world. Such conflicts are fuelled by the ever-growing illicit trade in small arms and light weapons, which cause the death and displacement of thousands of innocent people every year. In that regard, the Kingdom of Swaziland supports United Nations efforts to enhance international cooperation to prevent, combat and eradicate the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons. We further call for stern action to be taken against the mass production of such arms and weapons, in the same manner as we would deal with drug producers. In this age of globalization, collective action will be necessary given that no single nation can find its own solutions to the challenges that we face. In that context, we welcome the various initiatives currently under way that are aimed at engaging regional organizations to do their part in responding to challenges within their regions. These partnerships have been taking shape, and it is now up to us to give them substance by establishing appropriate frameworks, harmonizing methods and pooling capacities and resources for our work. We in Africa consider cooperation between the African Union and the United Nations as being of great value. For example, peacekeeping and peacebuilding missions continue to enhance peace initiatives in our region. However, I would like to stress here that 24 peacekeeping operations must go hand in hand with humanitarian efforts, with all of the urgency such situations require. African leaders have demonstrated their political will, but they lack the resources to resolve crises in Africa. It is for that reason that we appeal to the international community to increase its support for the African Union, so as to enhance its capacity and response mechanism. The Kingdom of Swaziland supports the call for an integrated approach to conflict resolution on our continent, and we also support the idea that the African Union is the organ best suited to mobilizing the efforts of its members, and, most important of all, to undertaking preventive action before a situation deteriorates. The Kingdom of Swaziland remains concerned, however, by the conflict in the Middle East, which continues to threaten international peace and security. We believe that the road map holds the key to a positive outcome on the matter and urge the Quartet to continue its efforts to bridge the differences between the parties. While welcoming the positive efforts by the Government of Israel to withdraw from some parts of the occupied territories, we would urge both parties to make a commitment to a comprehensive cessation of all violence, particularly that aimed at civilians, or else real progress will remain elusive. We remain hopeful that a solution to the conflict is imminent and continue to urge both parties to remain pragmatic and constructive in their quest for a solution. The recent MDG follow-up summit succeeded in highlighting the plight of Africa with unprecedented clarity. The paradox of Africa is the extreme and increasing poverty of its people, who face many problems, including ill health, in a land so richly endowed with natural resources. This has become increasingly visible over the past decade, while we have seen evidence of a decline in poverty in other parts of the world. In much of Africa, one of the major causes and consequences of poverty is disease, mainly malaria and HIV/AIDS. These diseases continue to compromise the health situation in African countries, halting and even reversing health gains achieved in earlier years. The poor are caught in a complex poverty trap in which low income leads to low consumption, which in turn results in low capacity and low productivity. The Kingdom of Swaziland believes that there are relatively affordable technologies in our modern world that can mitigate the effect of disease on the poor. Experience has shown that proven strategies and health interventions can effectively and dramatically reduce the toll of these killer diseases. Fortunately, the MDGs point the way forward. We believe that the creation of a world solidarity fund to eradicate extreme poverty and an accord within the framework of the World Trade Organization on patents are imperative and would be steps in the right direction, so that our countries can provide medicines to all. Health is a strong entry point for poverty reduction, and alleviating the disease burden on the poor will contribute to the improvement of their social status. This year also marks another milestone in the calendar of the movement for gender equality and the advancement of women: the 10-year review of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action. In 1995 women gathered in Beijing and took a giant step forward. At that point, gender equality came to be recognized as a critical element of development and peace for each and every country. Some progress has been made. For example, many more girls are now enrolled in primary education. Investing in women is paramount for ensuring sustainable development. During this session, we must strive to meet the challenge that the Charter, established 60 years ago, articulated: the equal rights of men and women. As we note this progress, we acknowledge the newer challenges that have emerged, such as the effects of the HIV/AIDS pandemic on both women and girls. The HIV/AIDS scourge continues to plague our communities in Africa. The pandemic is as much a medical crisis as it is an economic, social and political crisis. With no cure insight, it will continue to deplete the essential financial and human resources so critical for development. For its part, my Government has been collaborating with local communities to find home- grown solutions to this problem. We continue to be grateful to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and other international agencies for the assistance and support they continue to provide us in our fight against this killer disease. 25 There is no doubt that developing countries are determined to fight poverty by creating jobs for our people. As we play our part in the mobilization of domestic resources, I would like to appeal to the developed world to meet its commitments by supporting us. Effective assistance by the international community to enhance the quality of economic choices is necessary, as is firm commitment without conditionalities. The Kingdom of Swaziland believes that the Doha Development Agenda needs to be seriously advanced, with industrialized countries addressing the needs of developing countries. We call for better access to markets, in particular preferential markets with lowered tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade with industrialized countries. On the question of reform of the United Nations, the Kingdom of Swaziland supports the wide range of proposals put forward to revitalize our Organization in its management of our affairs. We are of the view that the role of the General Assembly must be significantly strengthened to enable it to fulfil the tasks originally assigned to it by the Charter. The General Assembly, as the most democratic and representative body of the United Nations, should seize this opportunity to take the lead and thus demonstrate that it can express the political will of the people of the world. In this regard, the Economic and Social Council too should be strengthened and given decision-making powers to implement the United Nations development agenda. We also believe that the Council should continue to be the overall coordinator of all development activities, including the Millennium Development Goals. As we discuss greater representation and wider participation in the United Nations system, and as we celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of the Organization, allow me to remind all of us gathered here that the more than 23 million people of the Republic of China remain hopeful that their voice in quest of participation in the very important United Nations system will soon be heard and positively responded to, so that they too can make their valuable contributions to the management and prosperity of world affairs. In the meantime, it is our continued hope that the existing issues between the parties will be resolved peacefully.I would like to add Romania’s voice to those who have warmly congratulated His Excellency Mr. Jan Eliasson on his election to the important position of President of the General Assembly. We wish him every success and assure him of our full support. For Romania, the political debates at the sixtieth session of the General Assembly have special significance; during this session, we shall celebrate 50 years of presence and active participation in the common efforts of the United Nations for peace, security and sustainable development, to help populations in distress and to promote human rights. It is uncontestable that the present international situation requires not only that we take a hard, critical look at reality but also that we have the strength to take responsible decisions and strong measures, both politically and at the institutional level, to ensure that the United Nations will be capable of meeting the challenges of the twenty-first century and that it will continue to play an important role in the service of the greater good. (spoke in English) Romania aligns itself fully with the statement delivered at the 9th plenary meeting by Foreign Secretary Jack Straw of Great Britain on behalf of the European Union. In my address I will, therefore, only complement the key points already made there on the challenges of reform. We can be proud of where the Union stands today on the global scene and of its United Nations record. By no means is this just another general debate at the start of a new session of the General Assembly. We are called upon to rise to the responsibility enunciated at the High-level Plenary Meeting of the General 32 Assembly, which preceded these debates. There, heads of State or Government committed all of us, through the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1), to continue the efforts to reform our Organization. It is now in our hands to implement our leaders’ decisions and make the most of them. Against this backdrop, I wish to commend Mr. Jean Ping, President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session, for the outstanding work he has done over the past few months, together with his facilitators, and for the way he conducted the negotiations. It was a difficult process, but I believe that we have a document with which we can be satisfied. Many aspects still need further elaboration, but the General Assembly is ready to work on them under the skilful guidance of the current President, Mr. Jan Eliasson. The United Nations should continue to accomplish multilayered objectives and to function as a complex, effective organization. That is the spirit of the deliberations conducted by our heads of State or Government and of the decisions they took. Much thus remains to be done in relation to the mandate and responsibilities of the First Committee. Debates on international security are still dependent on arrangements put in place during the cold war. Unfortunately, almost all multilateral negotiating forums seem complacent in their conservatism. Yet we all agree that, given those premises, it is difficult to advance the political dialogue and to set new priorities. We need a new dynamic, anchored in a genuine reform process. It has to be tailored to respond effectively to the most ominous threats to international peace and security: terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. It has to be truly relevant to our needs and has to produce equal dividends for all in a system based on the concept of collective security. Success in the area of development calls for broad solidarity in international economic relations. Romania has gradually increased its contribution towards resolving global development issues. And accession to the European Union will make Romania a member of the world’s largest donor community. The United Nations must develop and strengthen its capacity to effectively protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, by upholding the concept of a “responsibility to protect”, which calls for an international response in cases where a State is unable or unwilling to discharge its primary function of protecting the life, property and fundamental rights of its own citizens. This imperative is convincingly illustrated by the fact that, over the past 15 years, we have witnessed how a number of internal conflicts, which frequently had started as separatist movements, have evolved to achieve “frozen conflict” status. These conflicts have become breeding grounds for egregious violations of human rights and abuses, targeting the most vulnerable categories, such as women, children and persons belonging to various minorities. It serves no purpose to debate an ambitious policy agenda unless we have an effective United Nations system adapted to the new realities of a changing world. Years after the end of the cold war, the United Nations is still struggling to make the transition from an organization characterized by ideological differences to one actively responding to pressing operational challenges. Institutional change is an absolute prerequisite for successful policy results. One of the main problems besetting the Organization could, unfortunately, end up by being perpetuated — that is, increasingly high expectations and demands, without adequate resources and appropriate managerial tools. At a time when some are calling into question the relevance of our Organization and when we have had to cope recently with a succession of revelations about mismanagement, we, the Secretariat and Member States together, need to act resolutely to ensure the efficiency and credibility of the United Nations by improving administrative performance, establishing viable mechanisms for the responsibility and accountability of the Secretariat, strengthening audit and oversight functions and endowing the Secretary- General with the authority and flexibility needed to manage effectively the mandates entrusted to him by the membership. For Romania, like other United Nations Members, the Security Council has continued to be the body that monitors international relations with regard to critical issues that pose a threat to regional and global peace. It is highly commendable that the Security Council has assumed the leading role in establishing early warning and resolve as the cornerstones of the United Nations and the 33 international community’s approach to the full range of new threats to international peace and security. With over 2,000 peacekeepers on duty around the world, Romania is a major contributor and a significant investor in a wide range of United Nations-mandated and United Nations-authorized operations; we therefore have a very high stake in their successful outcome. Romania’s stance has consistently been that protection against security threats means more than just taking a stand at one’s own border; we have to go where those challenges originate and approach them with resolute action and sustained investment. This is part of the rationale for Romania’s joint endeavours with partners and allies in shouldering stabilization and reconstruction in Iraq and Afghanistan. In both countries, elections are happening, following the tremendous dedication and painstaking efforts of, above all, the people of those countries, and also because of a steadily engaged international community. Romania is carrying her share of this burden all the way through the process. Since 9/11, the international edifice, as well as our common values of peace and security, have been badly shaken by an unprecedented surge of terrorist activity. Romania was among the first countries to embark on efforts undertaken globally, as well as regionally, to combat this scourge. From that day on, we have constantly been at the forefront of the fight against terrorism, on the ground and through our active participation in the process of shaping successive initiatives in different forums. Furthermore, Romania has carried out her specific contribution to international counter-terrorism efforts as an elected member of the United Nations Security Council by assuming, inter alia, the chairmanship of the Committee established pursuant to resolution 1540 (2004) on the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Romania has already advanced to the ratification stage of the 12 relevant international conventions adopted in this area and has transposed important parts of their provisions into its national legislation. I am proud to inform delegates that, on 14 September, my President signed the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, which was adopted by the General Assembly on 13 April 2005. Romania shares the European Union (EU) stand on the urgency of adopting of a comprehensive convention on international terrorism during the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. Our crucial aim is to see the day when the international community is able to address each and every security challenge, no matter where, by better pooling existing resources and capabilities. We were pleased to see recognition given in the Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1) to the important contribution that regional organizations have made to peace and security. The heads of State and Government expressed their support for a stronger relationship between the United Nations and regional organizations, under Chapter VIII of the Charter. They resolved to expand this dimension of the new architecture of international peace and security through formalized agreements between the respective secretariats and, as appropriate, the involvement of regional organizations in the work of the Security Council. Romania’s particular experience in South-Eastern Europe and the Black Sea area indicates that, in such cases as conflict management and in handling responses to transnational threats, regional action reinforced by meaningful cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations is decisive. In the Balkans, the way in which the Kosovo issue will be addressed over the coming months is going to be crucial for the overall prospects for lasting stability, integration and prosperity for the whole region. The United Nations-led policy of standards in Kosovo has improved the situation in the region. The probability of violence and conflict is lower now than in the past, and we can start looking more confidently towards the future. However, the job is not yet done. Serbs and other ethnic communities in Kosovo still fear for their security and cannot live normal lives. There are also too many who are still waiting to return to their homes. Therefore, the comprehensive implementation of standards must continue, with thorough consideration given to securing and protecting normal relations between ethnic communities, as well as to the rights and freedoms of all people from Kosovo. No one will be able to refer realistically to stability and a political settlement in the region, as called for in United Nations Security Council resolution 1244 (1999), until such a foundation is achieved. 34 East of Romania, in the wider Black Sea area, development is hampered by a lack of overall security and stability. I am referring particularly to the situations of protracted conflict in the region, frozen in a state of uncertainty and disregard for international law and scrutiny. Besides their negative impact on development and political normalcy, these conflict areas also spread modern maladies in the neighbourhood, such as organized crime, illegal arms and drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, and, not least, terrorism. The States of the region have to rise to meet these challenges together. They will not be able to do so without close cooperation. They need strong partners, strategic vision and a coherent, more comprehensive approach. It is clear that we have to find something better and more sustainable than trying to put these conflicts in the freezer for decades or years. In order to ensure the benefits of stability in the wider Black Sea area for all involved, the best way is to work towards making the logic of cooperation prevail. In November, Romania will take up the chairmanship of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation pact. In this capacity, Romania will try to encourage all players in the region to think strategically in the common interest and overcome the burden of these protracted conflicts so as to maximize the region’s economic and social potential. Also, given the world’s interdependence, the States of the region need a United Nations that has closer links to regional structures and that can enhance, in turn, the effectiveness of joint action. However we characterize the 2005 World Summit Outcome — as a blueprint or a road map — it is beyond a doubt that United Nations reform is still a work in progress. As far as Romania is concerned, we stand ready to join the presidency and all Member countries in endeavours to prepare the United Nations to meet the heavy demands placed on multilateral cooperation in the twenty-first century.Let me begin, Sir, by paying tribute to your predecessor, Jean Ping, for his extraordinary work — above all on the world summit, but also throughout his year as President — and by offering my congratulations to you on beginning your year in office. I should also like to express, on behalf of the European Union and all its member States, our deepest sympathy and solidarity to the people of the United 27 States, particularly those in the Gulf states, in their hour of need. In early July, my first duty in the presidency of the European Union was to go to Srebrenica to mark the tenth anniversary of the massacre there, the worst in Europe since the end of the Second World War. More than 8,000 people, mainly Muslim, were taken away and killed as the international community just stood to one side. To be sure, we had shown the right convictions in words, but shamefully, we had failed to act. The lesson of that massacre — and of the even greater horror of Rwanda a year before — was that we all needed better means to turn our collective will into decisive action. I think that we in the European Union have learned in the intervening period. Today, the Union is on the ground as a military, police or civilian presence in Bosnia, in Aceh, in Iraq, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and, with the African Union, in Darfur. I also think that the United Nations has learned the lessons of the past decade. At the summit this week, we agreed on the further steps that we need to take for the Organization to be even more effective. Of all that was agreed at the summit, I believe it will be the agreement on our “responsibility to protect” that will be seen in the future as having the greatest significance of all. If we follow through on the responsibility to protect, then never again will genocide, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity be allowed to take place under our noses with nothing done. The responsibility to protect is, of course, a reflection of our common morality. But it is also a recognition that the world in which we now live is too small for us to be unaffected by, or indifferent to, the innocent victims of murder and oppression. This shrinking of the world has been as sudden as it has been profound. When the Berlin wall fell, a generation of ideological certainties was swept away. People could suddenly see partners where before they had only glimpsed adversaries. And as that very visible barrier was noisily being breached, a revolution in information technology was quietly erasing the barriers of distance and time. Continents and cultures are now cabled together and bound by trade and services in a way that was unimaginable even a decade ago. In this new world, we can no longer safely tolerate the general threat that can come from a particular human tragedy, wherever it takes place. To a greater extent than ever before, we share the same world: the same threats and responsibilities, the same opportunities and interests. And precisely because the boundaries of our world have contracted, the horizons — the ambitions — of many people around the globe have infinitely expanded. For the first time in our history, mankind has the ability to realize the potential of individuals in societies of all kinds and in every region through an open exchange of goods, investment, technology and, above all, ideas. Not least in all of this, it is the rise of India and of China that is reordering the world economy. Hundreds of millions there and elsewhere have been lifted out of poverty. A new global market has been created that ignores the divide — which seemed so fundamental for so many decades — between East and West. Currently, not everyone has the chance to share in all of that. Much of sub-Saharan Africa remains blighted by poverty, disease and conflict. The European Union has now set a clear timetable to achieve the 0.7 per cent target for aid. Debt relief, trade reform and development aid are all vital, but none of them can work alone. Fundamental to making poverty history are the Governments of the developing world themselves. And where Governments fail, their own peoples are the victims, as United Nations Special Envoy Anna Tibaijuka’s damning assessment of the situation in Zimbabwe only too graphically shows. Sub-Saharan Africa is not alone in having yet to achieve its potential. The American author Thomas Friedman, in his recent book The World Is Flat, highlights an extraordinary anomaly: it was the Arab peoples whose forebears devised algebra and the algorithms upon which our entire digital age is based, but those peoples are now right at the rear of today’s technological revolution, with, for example, fewer than 2 per cent of those populations having Internet access. Three United Nations Development Programme Arab Human Development Reports have now set out clearly how limited economic prospects and stunted political freedoms have led young and talented people towards alienation and disillusionment. The answer, however, does not lie in easy stereotypes about some clash of civilizations. It is only the terrorists and the preachers of hate who want us to believe that Islam and the West are fundamentally 28 different. Theirs is a philosophy of mistrust and despair, and we reject it utterly. Indonesia and Turkey — to name just two — are both striking examples of how countries with predominantly Muslim populations can embrace democracy and modernity. We in the European Union have seen the vibrant Muslim communities in our own countries, and from that experience have seen how Islamic and Western cultures can be partners in a global society. Everyone knows that the Arab peoples want prosperity, freedom and democracy every bit as much as anyone in Europe or America. So the fact that the Arab world has the lowest scores in regional measurements of democratic practices, civil freedoms and good governance is not some cultural inevitability, but a temporary failure of human will. In that regard, the international community has a clear responsibility to encourage regionally led political, social and economic reform. The European Union strongly supports such reform and will continue to do so. Equally, it has been our active foreign policy that has placed us in the lead with regard to Iran, especially on the nuclear dossier. With our High Representative Javier Solana and my French and German Foreign Minister colleagues, we have made detailed proposals for the relationship between the European Union and Iran to be based on cooperation and respect for international norms and treaties. Our proposals envisage a high-level, long-term political and security framework between the European Union and Iran, in which we would work together in political, economic, scientific and technological areas, including the civil nuclear field, in return for Iran providing guarantees about its intentions and capabilities concerning nuclear weapons. So, we will listen very carefully to and reflect on this afternoon’s speech by the new President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Mr. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. On Iraq, the European Union now has a comprehensive programme of engagement and has put behind it divisions over the military action two and a half years ago. We are supporting the goal of a peaceful, prosperous, democratic and stable nation. We are also giving very active support to the Quartet’s efforts to secure a just and lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians, with two States living side by side. We salute Prime Minister Sharon’s brave decision to withdraw from the Gaza Strip, and we salute President Mahmoud Abbas’s work to build the first stage of an effective, viable State of Palestine. In July, the European Union again suffered the horror of a major terrorist atrocity. This time the target was my country, the United Kingdom: its capital, London. But none of us is safe from the threat of terror. International terrorism requires an international response; otherwise, we all pay the price for each other’s vulnerabilities. The ratification of a comprehensive treaty on terrorism is, therefore, at the highest priority. But the threat from terrorists and the political instability they bring is made worse by the easy availability of weapons in what has become an anarchic, unregulated international trade. These same weapons fuelled the killings in Rwanda and in Bosnia a decade ago and are fuelling the conflicts in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in Darfur today. We already have international instruments to regulate chemical, biological and nuclear weapons. We in the European Union have a comprehensive arms control regime. But I suggest to the General Assembly that the time has now come for this Organization to embrace the idea of an international arms trade treaty, which would build on and strengthen existing initiatives. It was in the killing fields of Europe, in two successive wars, that the twin ideas of the United Nations and of the European Union became imperative. Today, the European Union’s commitment to the United Nations is profound; it has never been stronger. And it is reflected in what we give in voluntary donations and to the regular budget and peacekeeping operations. The fundamental purpose of the United Nations remains today what it was at its foundation: to remove the scourge of war, to reaffirm the worth of the human person and to promote social progress and better standards of life. In this changed and changing world, it is the responsibility of us all to ensure that this Organization has the powers and the resources to achieve all these aims.First, Sir, I should like to extend my sincere congratulations to you on the occasion of your election to the presidency of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly and to wish you the greatest success in conducting the work of the Assembly. I am also pleased to take this opportunity to offer my sincere thanks to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Gabonese Republic, for the considerable results produced during his term as President, especially towards the end of the session, when we reviewed matters related to the implementation of the Millennium Goals and the reform of the United Nations. I should also like to take this opportunity to express our appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his valuable efforts to bolster and propel the role of the United Nations in international peacekeeping, security and development. The report by Mr. Kofi Annan (A/59/2005) and the recommendations set out in it provide us with important elements capable of leading to consensus on strategies that will help us to achieve the Millennium Goals and to make progress on reforming the United Nations. I cannot fail to take advantage of this opportunity, on behalf of the people of Sao Tome and Principe, to reiterate to the Government and the people of the United States of America and to the bereaved families our sincere condolences regarding the tragedy caused by Hurricane Katrina. These difficult times, being experienced by a large part of the American people, cannot leave us indifferent, above all because we are fully aware of the role that the American people and its Government play in international solidarity and cooperation, constantly seeking peace and prosperity for peoples in difficulty, and of their support and financing of this great Organization. From the early days of the signing of the Charter in 1945 in San Francisco, the United Nations has played a crucial role in undertaking many matters of a political, economic, social and humanitarian nature throughout the world. Nevertheless, it seems to us that the world now needs a stronger and more dynamic United Nations. The present session takes place in a very complex international environment. Indeed, the climate of permanent tension experienced in some parts of the world, the unbridled arms race, human trafficking, cross-border organized crime, terrorism, systematic violations of human rights, economic depression and environmental degradation constitute important matters that are in need of the attention of the United Nations now and in the years to come. In the face of such challenges, Member States must manifest a sense of wisdom and responsibility in order for an international order based on peace, security and cooperation to prevail. Small island States met this year in Mauritius to evaluate the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. In Mauritius, States reaffirmed their  14 05-51226 commitment to support the efforts of small island developing States that would lead to sustainable development through a greater and more effective implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action. Decisions and recommendations were adopted on climate change, natural and environmental disasters, water resources, waste management, tourism, energy, transportation, biodiversity and marine and coastal resources. All the problems that affect small island States, from global warming to ecosystem problems, can be resolved only if the international community makes an effort to effectively increase the resources that will support the sustained development of small island States. In this regard, we would like to take the opportunity to express our thanks both to the international community and to the Government of Mauritius for the efforts made to organize the special conference. International security is based on the protection of the people and on education for capacity-building, promoting a community’s development. Nations that do not pay attention those factors could be in a state of permanent tension, which is not conducive to progress. For this reason HIV/AIDS, poverty, political crises, ongoing violations of human rights, oppression and occupation constitute threats to human security. Many of our countries continue to face challenges in combating HIV/AIDS and other illnesses. In some regions of Africa HIV/AIDS is devastating families, cultures and economies — entire societies. The cost of treatment continues to be extremely high and our economies are beginning to buckle under the effects of the illness. If significant resources and additional scientific investment for research to seek a cure for HIV/AIDS are not forthcoming the development expectations of Africa will be far from being met. Very recently the Republic of Angola was attacked by the worst outbreak ever of Marburg fever, caused by a virus related to the Ebola virus. We are concerned because Sao Tome and Principe, being an integral part of the Central African States, cannot remove itself from that situation. We appeal to the World Health Organization (WHO) to strengthen the capabilities of the countries of the subregion by holding seminars and providing training. This initiative will help us to deal prophylactically with similar situations that might arise. Likewise, malaria continues to be a serious public health problem for my country despite its active involvement with existing programmes supported by several countries and organizations. The situation of insecurity primarily affects the most vulnerable populations, especially refugees, children, women and the elderly. Terrorism is destabilizing Governments, destroying lives and claiming innocent victims. We are faced with a challenge that requires reformulating our strategies to combat it. It seems entirely appropriate to start with an understanding of the origins of the problem by identifying its causes, and then to forge new consensuses and improve the methods of combating the problem and implementing Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). However, the United Nations must take additional action to benefit States which, like my own, are not in a position to fully comply with all the provisions of that resolution. We need resources that will contribute to the improvement, inter alia, of our security, including control of our borders and territorial waters. Here, strengthening our capability to fight the phenomenon of terrorism is a priority. In my capacity as President of the Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries, I should like to refer to Guinea-Bissau, which has just successfully concluded a long and difficult political transition. First, let me congratulate the people and the authorities of that country on their success. I commend the international community, and in particular the United Nations and its Secretary-General, for its prompt contribution, which bolstered the people’s action for peace, stability and development. Now, Guinea-Bissau faces the giant task of promoting development and well-being for its population. The international community must therefore continue to provide its traditional help so that legitimate expectations may not be frustrated. The universality of the Organization requires that all nations must be represented. However, this continues not to be so despite several calls for it. As we reflect on reforming the United Nations, we must once again take advantage of the opportunity from this rostrum to invite the international community to review the problem of the need for the Republic of China on Taiwan to be represented in the Organization. In this regard, my country signed the letter contained in document A/60/192 requesting the inclusion of an item in the agenda of the present session entitled “Question of the representation of the 23 million people of 05-51226 15 Taiwan in the United Nations”. Once again, we have lost an opportunity to correct this injustice. We are further concerned by the recent adoption by the People’s Republic of China of the so-called anti- secession law, which, by increasing tension in the Strait of Taiwan, may compromise peace in the region. Aware of the role of the United Nations, specifically under the provisions of Articles 1 and 34 of the Charter, Sao Tome and Principe also joined in proposing the draft resolution annexed to document A/60/193. That document contains a letter requesting the inclusion of a supplementary item in the agenda of the present session entitled, “A proactive role for the United Nations in maintaining peace in the Taiwan Strait”. Neither proposal received the expected support. We are faced with an excellent opportunity to infuse our Organization with greater dynamism and rationality, more action and less bureaucracy. Reform of the system is urgent. It is a high priority. To that end, we must all work without hesitation for the good of the world to which we belong. At the outset, allow me to express my great pleasure in attending this sixtieth session of the General Assembly and in addressing you on behalf of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I should also like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election and at the same time to express my sincere appreciation to Mr. Jean Ping for his successful presiding over the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. Let me start by making reference to the historic summit that took place last week. In its sixtieth year of striving for global peace, the United Nations has reached maturity. Our planet is not what it was 60 years ago, and we will leave it to historians to say whether our generation is better than earlier generations. We need to be able to face the challenges of globalization in the twenty-first century armed with capacity and competence. We need to show multilateralism and cooperation, relying on the basic values outlined in the Charter. Above all, we need to identify explicit obligations and ensure that they are fulfilled. The United Nations, unique and uncontested when it comes to global credibility and capacity, should not be content to be simply what it used to be. This Organization needs to be reformed, not only to quiet the criticism but also more importantly to earn unequivocal respect. The strength and efficiency of the United Nations, like in any other organization, depend on the collective strength of its Members. Its strength stems from the unity of the Member States. Our Organization, as imperfect as it is, reflects today's world, the international community and our entire generation. The High-level Plenary Meeting's outcome document is encouraging because it summarizes the issues on which we reached consensus, but it has fallen short of providing the timeframe and methods for achieving important goals. 2 It is a pity that reform of the Security Council has lost momentum and has been postponed to the future. Our enthusiasm in supporting the establishment of the Human Rights Council was overshadowed by the fact that the final document has not defined the modalities for realizing this idea in a precise timeframe. We strongly urge the appointment of a facilitator who will streamline the General Assembly's efforts to see this newborn get on its feet. As for the responsibility to protect, which found its rightful place in the outcome document, we would like to point out the paramount role of preventive diplomacy. From our painful experience we have come to realize the importance of fact-finding missions and early warning systems for potential or imminent conflicts. In order to have efficient early warning, we need to strengthen the Secretariat's Department of Political Affairs. Staff from countries emerging from conflict or from post-conflict societies, staff with first-hand experience could be an asset to that Department. That would allow us to restore the credibility of the United Nations, which was in great part overshadowed by non- government organizations such as the International Crisis Group. Having travelled the path from being the subject of Security Council emergency meetings to being a potential candidate for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council in 2010-2011, Bosnia and Herzegovina strongly supports the outcome document's conclusion that the Council should stay committed to its primary responsibility under the Charter and maintain international peace and security, rather than expand its agenda at the expense of the General Assembly. Another of today's serious challenges, one that Bosnia and Herzegovina is dealing with quite successfully, is the war on terrorism. It is certain that a global threat requires a global response, and that is possible only through the United Nations. The definition of terrorist acts, the unequivocal condemnation of such acts by the international community, the identification of means of international cooperation in the fight against terrorism and the unhindered functioning of international justice can be achieved only through the United Nations. A special Ministry for Security has been established in Bosnia and Herzegovina, aimed not only at improving domestic security but also at contributing more effectively to the global fight against terrorism. The anti-terrorist team that operates under this Ministry has already blocked the bank accounts of suspect individuals and organizations and has brought a number of charges. We have signed all the international conventions against terrorism, and we stand ready to make a constructive contribution to the drafting the United Nations Comprehensive Convention on Terrorism, as agreed in the outcome document. The summit's accomplishments are quite encouraging, demonstrating the power of universalism and multilateralism and their superiority over unilateralism. We made this Assembly an arena of agreement, instead of an arena of conflict. The lesson learned in Bosnia and Herzegovina has taught us that if we find enough strength and courage in ourselves to prove our commitment to these principles in practice, the course of history can be changed towards peace, stability and prosperity for all. With no intention to go too far into the past or interpret facts that already belong to the archives, I must remind you that we are marking two anniversaries this year: Srebrenica and Dayton. The close to 8,000 names of Bosniacs on the list in the Srebrenica report confirm the terrible truth about the genocide that took place in that city. That crime was committed 50 years after the liberation of Auschwitz, when it was vowed that that would never again happen. Yet it happened again: not once but twice. We now have the power and instruments to prevent anything similar from ever happening again. The Dayton Agreement, the peace agreement that was reached in Dayton and signed in Paris and often criticized for its complicated and unfeasible provisions, did stop the war and enabled freedom of movement. It meant a new beginning for Bosnia and Herzegovina. However imperfect, it provided the framework that enabled us, 10 years down the line, to turn the situation around and complete fundamental reforms that have become part of our everyday life, namely, the creation of a single defence system with a Ministry of Defence, the unification of two economic spaces, the merger of two intelligence services, a single Customs service and revenue system, standardization, to mention but a few. Obvious limitations imposed by the Dayton framework, for example the problems faced in police reform, will be dealt with in accordance with 3 international standards, just as we did with defence reform. International standards and good democratic practices will take us to the future, free of fear and tension. We believe that the road that Bosnia and Herzegovina is resolutely following provides an important international experience. Peace is now firm and the State reintegrated, as the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina clearly shows. We have done more in terms of integration and nation building over the past three years than in the previous seven. I would like to bring to your attention the important fact that the international affirmation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and fulfilment of our obligations are interconnected. There is a correlation between encouragement and obligations on the one side and multiple reforms on the other. A key feature of all reforms to date is the fact that they have all been implemented through political agreement. They were not a result of international pressure and they were not imposed by the current High Representative. Entities have agreed to transfer their jurisdictions to the State. Establishing and running the State-level Ministry of Defence was a crucial step forward in terms of NATO's Partnership for Peace programme. Numerous institutions and agencies in the field of public health now operate with State-level mandates as well. We are in the final phases of introducing a single-rate value-added tax in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will strengthen and accommodate the business environment for foreign investment. We have recorded continued growth in foreign direct investment over the past two years, whereas growth in the gross domestic product for 2004 was almost 6 per cent ó a record for our region. Of course, one of our most important international obligations is cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY), and we pay a great deal of attention to it. Despite the fact that the Republika Srpska in Bosnia and Herzegovina has also made substantial progress in this area this year, we are discouraged by the fact that the two most wanted war criminals have not yet been brought to justice. Obvious improvement in cooperation with The Hague, sudden voluntary surrenders to the Tribunal after years of hiding and the locations from which runaway criminals are being extradited clearly point to the level of responsibility of Serbia and Montenegro with regard to this entire matter, especially as compared to the responsibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are extremely concerned by the fact that many criminals still at large have obviously used Belgrade as an escape route and to secure hideouts outside the region. The reform of the justice system has resulted in the establishment of the institutions of State Prosecutor, the National Court and the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are the first country in the region to meet the international standards required for the processing of war crimes cases. The State-level Council will operate under optimal technical conditions and in accordance with the best European practices. The process of organizing trials in the countries where crimes have been committed is somewhat hindered by the dual citizenship issue. However, we hope to have that matter resolved shortly, with the assistance of the relevant international institutions. Acting in accordance with its international obligations, Bosnia and Herzegovina supports all activities and peace initiatives aimed at conflict prevention, peacebuilding and safety in post-conflict zones. Despite our limited capacities, Bosnia and Herzegovina participates in international peacekeeping operations. We have military observers in Congo, Cyprus, Ethiopia and Eritrea, as well as civilian police officers in Liberia and Haiti as part of United Nations operations there. We also sent a mine-clearance team to Iraq as a sign of our support for Iraqis in the process of establishing a democratic State. With regard to the situation in Iraq, we are pleased to see consensus among members of the Security Council in connection with the transfer of authority from the occupation forces to the legitimately elected judicial and executive authorities, as that will led to establishing Iraq as a sovereign and democratic country. That is a necessary precondition for the beginning of comprehensive reforms of the Iraqi State and society. Reconstruction will still remain the key issue for Iraq's citizens. The United Nations should play a more important role in that connection. The Organization provides humanitarian aid to Iraq and is helping to rebuild its infrastructure and Government institutions. The firm determination of the Members of the United Nations to assist in establishing stability and security by participating in reconstruction and providing 4 assistance in the form of human resources or technical support is vital. Bosnia and Herzegovina supports the comprehensive implementation of the Programme of Action adopted at the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. We have also supported the outcome of the special session of the General Assembly devoted to AIDS by creating a special national council for the prevention of AIDS. The council will meet all required international obligations in that area by the end of this year. With regard to the financing of international peacekeeping operations, we are quite aware that that issue is key to accomplishing the goals of the United Nations. We also recognize that a shortfall in funds can indeed hinder the protection of human lives. We call for a more balanced and fair basis for contributions. We also call upon developed countries to set a good example for other countries as they need to demonstrate clearly that we all share this obligation. Being an underrepresented country at United Nations Headquarters, and in the United Nations system overall, we would like to see more balanced representation. Bosnia and Herzegovina is keen to see its nationals being selected for high-ranking positions in the Organization, as we in fact have high-quality personnel to offer. On behalf of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, allow me to take this opportunity to once again express the gratitude that we feel for the assistance that the international community has provided us during times of hardship. The Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina will take immediate steps to prepare, by the end of next year, a national strategy to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. That strategy will include special emphasis on transparency, good governance, better employment and better use of domestic resources. Lastly, allow me to share a final thought. We believe that helping underdeveloped countries and post-conflict societies is not charity, but rather an investment in the future of the entire world.Let me congratulate the President of the current session and former President Jean Ping for the success of the historic sixtieth anniversary summit. We admire the dedication and skill with which President Ping conducted the preparations for the summit. We thank the Secretary- General for his initiative to convene the summit and his numerous constructive ideas to advance development and United Nations reform. Pakistan supported adoption of the outcome document. It reflects the existing consensus on a range of issues. However, like many others, we are disappointed with the results. We could have achieved more, perhaps, if the agenda were not so extensive, if Security Council reform had not sapped energy from the preparatory process, and if the negotiations on the document had been commenced earlier. Development was, and remains, of the highest priority for the vast majority of Member States. The summit was to focus on fulfilment of the 26 internationally agreed development goals. There are welcome recommendations on official development assistance (ODA) targets, debt relief, enhancing and improving aid and addressing the special needs of Africa; but we did not advance very much on trade, investment flows and global governance. However, we can recover lost ground and lost time on development through a focused and more determined implementation process. The objective must be accorded first priority. Fortunately, agreement exists already on development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The developing countries are adopting national strategies to achieve those goals. Development partners must now demonstrate the political will to fully support the national strategies and to accept greater equity in the international trade and financial systems. We must quickly put in place an effective mechanism to promote and monitor the implementation of the goals and agreements on development. Adequate resources must be provided for the purpose. The summit emphasized the role of the Economic and Social Council in promoting policy dialogue, development cooperation, post-conflict development and coordination within the United Nations system. Pakistan believes that the Economic and Social Council should now serve as the central forum for follow-up and implementation of the development commitments made at the summit. In this regard, we would propose that the model developed for tracking tsunami aid — the so-called DAD (Development Assistance Database) system — be replicated to assess the status of implementation of the agreed development goals. Pakistan has also offered to convene a high-level informal meeting of members of the Economic and Social Council and other stakeholders towards the end of this year to review the steps taken to advance the implementation of the development goals and decide on further measures. The widely recognized interlinkage between peace and development has now been institutionalized with the decision to establish the Peacebuilding Commission. Pakistan is proud that the Peacebuilding Commission evolved from the concept of ad hoc composite committees that we introduced in 2003. As a major troop contributor to United Nations peacekeeping operations and, in particular, through our engagement in complex missions, such as in Sierra Leone, Liberia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Burundi, Pakistan has a wealth of experience and expertise to contribute to the work of the Peacebuilding Commission. We shall take part actively in the discussions to be held in the General Assembly to finalize the details and modalities for the commencement of the Commission’s work. Terrorism is a global menace and requires a collective response. Pakistan has been a major target of terrorism. We are at the forefront of the international war against terrorism. At home, the Pakistan Government has instituted a number of short- and long- term measures to eliminate terrorism and extremism. These include banning extremist organizations and detention of extremists, crackdowns against hate material, halting the misuse of religious institutions, registration and reform of the madrassas and fighting illiteracy and poverty. The summit has endorsed the elaboration of a comprehensive strategy against terrorism. We should set up an ad hoc working group to elaborate this strategy. A comprehensive strategy should oppose terrorism, wherever and by whomever — individuals, groups or States. No strategy can be comprehensive if it does not address the factors that contribute to extremism, including poverty, political and economic injustice, foreign occupation and denial of the right to self-determination. Dialogue and understanding between civilizations and religions should also be an essential component of a comprehensive strategy on terrorism. There are several noteworthy and mutually reinforcing initiatives that can be coalesced to generate international and national action. These include President Musharraf’s strategy of “enlightened moderation”, which seeks to simultaneously promote internal reform in the Islamic world and the active support of the international community to help resolve political disputes and address the socio-economic and development challenges of the Islamic world. The failure to achieve agreement on disarmament and non-proliferation in the outcome document reflects the deep differences that exist among Member States. This is dangerous for peace and stability, especially in regions of tension. It is time for the international community, for the entire United Nations membership, not just some self-selected States, to promote a new consensus on disarmament and non-proliferation 27 through the Conference on Disarmament or a special session of the Disarmament Commission. The summit also could not achieve full consensus on how to ensure the effective promotion of human rights that, along with “peace and development”, is the third pillar of United Nations reform. We should build on the agreement reached to evolve a full consensus. Pakistan will join in creating a new and representative Human Rights Council as a subsidiary body of the General Assembly. Its mandate and methods must promote cooperation rather than confrontation. We must also improve and rationalize the Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights, the host of special mechanisms that exist on the subject and the participation of civil society in the work of the United Nations on human rights. We feel that this exercise of reform should be entrusted to a working group in Geneva. We have committed ourselves to strengthening the United Nations and making it more effective, efficient, democratic and accountable. Our pledge to reaffirm the central position of the General Assembly should be given real meaning. The Assembly’s role and mandate should be preserved from encroachment, especially by the Security Council. It is the General Assembly that should ensure the follow-up of the summit’s decisions. In its capacity as President of the Economic and Social Council, Pakistan will work closely with member States to implement the proposed enhanced role of the Council with adjustments to the Council’s organization, agenda and working methods. The Security Council has the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, but it lacks transparency and democracy. It is neither fully representative nor accountable to the general membership. The rationale for its reform is, therefore, clear. The Council should be enlarged by adding 10 additional non-permanent members to reflect the entire spectrum of the United Nations membership. It could allow immediate re-election to enable major countries to seek more frequent membership of the Council, but it should not add to inequality by inducting new permanent members. That would alienate many important countries, divide and weaken the United Nations and further reduce the Council’s credibility and legitimacy. The proposal of Uniting for Consensus is equitable, fair and democratic. It has the flexibility to accommodate the positions and aspirations of all countries and regional and political groupings, including those of Africa. It will increase the representation of the general membership in the Security Council. It will enhance the stature of the General Assembly by making the Council more accountable to the general membership. We are ready to continue efforts — in any open and transparent format, including that of the General Assembly’s Open-ended Working Group — to reach consensus on Security Council reform. Pakistan is gratified that the summit reaffirmed the central values and principles of the United Nations and acknowledged that the range of threats we face requires our urgent, collective and more determined response. It also acknowledged that many threats are interdependent. We welcome the renewed emphasis on the peaceful settlement of disputes and on the Charter’s strict constraints on the use of force. It is befitting that we are observing the International Day of Peace today. Pakistan believes that while dealing with new threats, such as terrorism and weapons of mass destruction, the United Nations must continue to accord priority to addressing and resolving the numerous disputes and conflicts that afflict so many regions of our world. In Africa, there is a new dynamic of regional ownership and international engagement and partnership in addressing conflicts and complex crises. Progress is, however, mixed. Relative improvements in Sierra Leone and Liberia are in contrast with numerous challenges in Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Burundi. We are heartened by the prospects of peace in the Sudan. Somalia, on the other hand, still awaits the international attention and support needed to restore security and consolidate the painful gains in the peace process. Pakistan will continue to contribute to United Nations and international efforts for the restoration of peace and stability in Africa. The early resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian issue in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions and a two-State solution would usher in an era of peace and stability in the Middle East. We have welcomed Israel’s withdrawal from the Gaza, and we trust that it will be followed by withdrawal from the 28 West Bank, leading to the creation of an independent and viable Palestinian State. Pakistan will do whatever it can to promote durable peace in the Middle East. That would help considerably to eliminate the conditions that encourage extremism and terrorism. Pakistan also hopes for the early restoration of peace and security in Iraq. We should encourage a democratic consensus among its peoples and regions that preserves Iraq’s unity and territorial integrity, as well as the strengthening of its national capability to preserve security by combating violence and terrorism. Afghanistan has completed another milestone with the successful holding of parliamentary elections. The international community must remain fully engaged to help Afghanistan overcome the remaining challenges. Pakistan is committed, bilaterally and multilaterally, to support efforts for peace, security, development and reconstruction in Afghanistan. We wish to see the 3 million Afghan refugees whom we still host return to their homes in safety and honour. There should be no self-serving questions or quibbling about Pakistan’s commitment and contribution to peace and security in Afghanistan, which are in Pakistan’s own best interest. Pakistan is actively engaged in halting illegal cross-border movement and containing the threat posed by the Taliban and Al-Qaida, including through the Pakistan- Afghanistan-United States Tripartite Commission. Pakistan’s military presence along the border far exceeds the combined strength of the national and international military presence in Afghanistan. We recently proposed partial fencing of the border in limited areas to minimize the chances for illegal movements. We hope that that will be accepted and implemented in the spirit in which it was offered. Relations between India and Pakistan are improving. There is new hope for peace and cooperation in South Asia. We must also give that hope to the people of Jammu and Kashmir in their legitimate quest for self-determination. In his address to the summit on 14 September, President Musharraf said that Pakistan and India must not remain trapped by hate and history in a cycle of confrontation and conflict. To prevent that from happening, it is essential to find a just solution to the dispute over Jammu and Kashmir, acceptable to Pakistan, India and, above all, the people of Kashmir. On the same day, the President met with the Indian Prime Minister, Mr. Manmohan Singh, in New York to further advance the ongoing composite dialogue between our two countries. Peace in our neighbourhood will also provide a fillip to the efforts being undertaken by Pakistan for rapid and equitable socio-economic development. We share the emphasis placed by the summit on the role of national policies and development strategies in the achievement of sustainable development. The Government has taken a series of actions to transform Pakistan into a modern, dynamic, progressive and democratic Islamic State. Our policies have produced visible results: macroeconomic stability, 8.4 per cent growth in gross domestic product last year, a reduced fiscal deficit and growing export earnings, external remittances and investment. The major focus of our Government now is to accelerate the transfer of economic benefits to the people of Pakistan. We are confident that we will achieve all the targets of the Millennium Development Goals. Pakistan is also succeeding against terrorism and extremism. It is on the path to sustainable democracy. Our people have been empowered from the grass-roots level up. That includes guaranteed 30 per cent representation of women at all levels. Minorities have been brought into the mainstream. We are determined to sustain those positive trends in our national development. At the same time, we are working to forge close economic partnerships in the region and beyond. It is in the same spirit of constructive engagement that Pakistan wishes to pursue cooperative multilateralism and to strengthen the United Nations — this unique forum that is indispensable, in our interdependent world, for all States, large or small, powerful or weak. Pakistan participated actively in, and contributed constructively to, the preparation of the summit and its outcome. We are committed to furthering the reform process in the follow-up to the summit’s decisions. We look forward to working closely with all other Member States and would like to assure the Assembly of our full cooperation in this historic endeavour.I wish first of all to congratulate Mr. Jan Eliasson on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. We are convinced that, given his extensive experience in international relations, this session will have a fruitful outcome. My delegation pledges its support and full cooperation in his endeavours for the success of this historic session. I should like also to convey to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, deep appreciation for his efforts in promoting the noble ideals and causes of our Organization. The strength of our Organization lies in its universality and legitimacy, anchored in the Charter of the United Nations and in the fundamental principles of international law. Among these cardinal principles are respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and 8 equality of States, non-interference in their internal affairs and the non-use or threat of use of force. International issues today are of such a scale and complexity that they can be resolved only through multilateralism and by collective action founded on the values of solidarity and universality, as embodied in the United Nations. Only by working together can we hope to discharge our responsibilities. We must at the same time ensure the Organization’s credibility by adapting it to the global realities of the twenty-first century. The High-level Plenary Meeting provided a useful impetus towards meeting the goals and challenges of the twenty-first century. The outcome document of the 2005 world summit included measures to strengthen the United Nations. My delegation wishes to underscore the need to preserve and promote the centrality of the General Assembly as the highest deliberative and decision-making organ of the United Nations. Myanmar also agrees that the Security Council should be reformed to reflect world realities so as to be more effective. Since the Council has primary responsibility for world peace and security, the process of its expansion should be managed with the utmost seriousness. Any decision in that respect should be arrived on the basis of the broadest possible agreement of the membership. In the context of the reform process, we must avoid the introduction of new concepts that have no basis either in the Charter or in international law. Acceptance of such concepts would go against the principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity and non- interference, which form the very basis of the system of international relations. I am happy to see that the outcome document contains elements that we hold dear. The document underscores in particular the obligation of all Member States to refrain from the threat or use of force in any manner inconsistent with the Charter of the United Nations. Charter provisions provide the necessary principles for the use of force as a last resort. We have always strongly held the view that Article 51 of the Charter, which deals with the right of individual or collective self-defence, should not be rewritten or reinterpreted. We believe, however, that there some areas remain that should be further revisited in order to address our concerns. Regarding the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission as an intergovernmental advisory body, we feel strongly that there must be adequate representation by developing countries in the Organizational Committee. Developing countries have a strong case, since they are major contributors of military personnel and civilian police to United Nations missions. In strengthening human rights mechanisms, we must address the root causes of problems, namely, the use of selectivity, double standards and politicization. It must be borne in mind that the Charter places human rights in the context of international cooperation. During this session, we will be considering the mandate, modalities, function, size, composition, membership, working methods and procedures of the envisaged Human Rights Council. Given the importance that we all place on human rights, developing countries must play an active role in the negotiation process. We would like to see the initiation of open, transparent and inclusive negotiations at an early date. The threats we face today do not respect national boundaries; they are interconnected and complex. Terrorism, illicit drug trafficking, transnational organized crime, weapons of mass destruction, poverty and hunger, and the alarming spread of highly infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria are some of the threats we can ignore only at our peril. Efforts and strategies to tackle transnational issues need to be coordinated at all levels and carried out with the necessary respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States. My country is a State party to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its supplementary Protocols to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children, and against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air. It has enacted legislation to control money laundering and to render mutual legal assistance to combat transnational crime. It is a State party to almost all of the United Nations conventions on terrorism. It has also actively participated in regional and international efforts against international crime. Myanmar is against all forms and manifestations of terrorism. Myanmar is of the view that terrorism should be combated in accordance with international law and obligations. The issue should not be used as a 9 pretext for intervention in the internal affairs of other States. Sixty years after the Second World War, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, particularly of nuclear weapons, remains a formidable challenge. Nuclear proliferation is on the increase, and there is also considerable concern that non-State actors could gain access to such materials and technologies. All States must take action in a multilateral framework to make substantive progress towards disarmament, including nuclear disarmament, and nuclear-weapon States should reaffirm their commitment to negative security assurances vis-à-vis non-nuclear States. The outcome document, however, failed to address the important issue of disarmament and non-proliferation. This is an issue of great importance, and we should make every effort to ensure that this vital issue is not sidelined in international forums. At the twentieth special session of the General Assembly, on narcotic drugs, it was emphasized that no single State can combat the scourge of narcotic drugs on its own. In my country, the problem of narcotic drugs is a bitter colonial legacy. We have therefore made the elimination of narcotic drugs a national responsibility and have formulated strategies and tactics to end the problem of opium poppy cultivation through a 15-year comprehensive plan and the supplementary New Destiny Project. These efforts have resulted in a drastic reduction in opium poppy production. As a result, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) reported a 73 per cent decline between 1996 and 2004. Myanmar’s efforts to eradicate poppy cultivation, opium and heroin production and drug trafficking and abuse complement the objectives set forth by the United Nations. Myanmar is also taking urgent measures with its neighbouring countries to exercise control over illegally trafficked precursor chemicals used in the production of synthetic drugs. We have developed bilateral, trilateral and multilateral cooperation in the subregional, regional and international contexts. World leaders pledged in the Millennium Declaration that the world of 2015 would be better than the one in which we live today. They made a solemn commitment to implement the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). To achieve the MDGs, both the developed and the developing countries must act in a cooperative manner. The developed countries, in particular, must fulfil their commitments and meet the internationally agreed official development assistance target of 0.7 per cent of their gross national product. Debt relief must also be provided to developing countries, including grant-based financing and 100 per cent debt cancellation. In Myanmar, we are making satisfactory progress towards reaching the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. In our drive to eradicate poverty we have achieved significant results through the designation of 24 special development zones in the states and divisions of the country, in order to achieve equitable and balanced development throughout the country. Myanmar is endeavouring to achieve development mainly relying on its own resources without assistance, particularly from international financial institutions. With external financial assistance, however, our development efforts can be accelerated. Myanmar is a multi-ethnic nation comprising over 100 races. Immediately after independence, the country had to face the scourge of insurgency. This has posed a serious impediment to our national development endeavours. Based on the bitter lessons of the past, we have today embarked on a programme to make law, order and national stability prevail. As we are able to build peace and stability, we have been able to focus our attention on economic development, giving priority to human resource development. While endeavouring to achieve comprehensive development of the country, we are at the same time implementing a seven-step political programme for a smooth transition to a democratic State. In this regard, understanding and support from the international community would enable us to achieve our cherished goal more expeditiously. Unwarranted pressures will, however, delay our progress. We, for our part, are resolute in our determination to achieve our goal of establishing a modern democratic State. Myanmar is poised on the threshold of a new era. We are at a point when all our attention must be devoted to crossing the threshold and entering a new era.No one here took part in the first General Assembly in 1945. We can only imagine how at the end of the Second World War men and women full of hope were prompted by a firm resolve to change and make the world better. They were right. The shortcomings and weaknesses of our Organization should not in any way detract from the leading role of the United Nations in the world. Do we today share the same spirit that inspired our predecessors? At the end of this General Assembly will we feel that we have improved the world? We welcome the draft outcome document. We also welcome recent resolutions adopted by the 4 Security Council on counter-terrorism and conflict prevention, particularly in Africa. We support the early establishment of a human rights council so as to promote democracy. However, the results of the summit meeting do not fully correspond with Africa’s aspirations. What is lacking is that long-hoped-for impetus that would enable every Member State to express its views, give hope to our peoples, preserve the balance of nature and enable us to ensure the futures of all the world’s children. We need to further strengthen our efforts by trying fresh approaches. First of all, it is high time to strengthen the role of the General Assembly. It is also time for Africa to be better represented within United Nations bodies, and in particular on the Security Council. That is a matter of justice, but it is also a necessity for the development of our continent. Having Africa’s voice heard on the international level and allowing it to share in responsibilities on a global level are marks of concern and respect for our States and our peoples. Let us put an end to the exclusion of the African continent. We want to make our full and complete contribution to debates and decision-making on issues that concern how our world works. The discussions in recent months have focused on institutional reform at the United Nations. That is a very important question. It is also important for Africa. But we would ask you to expand the discussion so as to properly define the role that the Organization should play in world development. The United Nations should be more than just a crisis management body — a body that addresses poverty, disasters and emergencies. Let us convert it into a body that inspires us with hope. Let us work together for development, justice and equity. The sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations should mark the beginning of a new era in which we will have the opportunity to build a more prosperous, more just, more democratic and more environmentally aware world — a world that is sounder, healthier, more responsible and more united. We need to work out strategies and plans that arouse enthusiasm among nations and attract the fervent hopes of our peoples. We will only change the world if we can secure the support of our populations. The United Nations must devise and adopt the necessary measures to establish a more balanced world. All the crises, the wars, the questions of security and terrorism, the world’s epidemics — all of those have concrete causes. The Secretary-General rightly quoted one of the United Nations purposes from the preamble to the Charter: “to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom”. Our peoples want to have real opportunities. Quite rightly, they call for the favourable conditions that will allow them to take advantage of those opportunities. Our Organization is 60 years old. Much has been achieved in decolonization and peacekeeping, for instance. Five years ago we defined the Millennium Development Goals. Now we must go still further. Let us devise a genuine global strategy for development, a strategic partnership with a clear-cut vision and more ambitious goals. As regards Africa, what is lacking is a clear vision of its future. It can be seen that Africa is still a poor continent. Nonetheless, Africa has the potential to be rich. The previous General Assembly provided me with an opportunity to propose a “Marshall Plan for Africa”. The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom made the same proposal and the President of the World Bank, Mr. Paul Wolfowitz, has also spoken of a plan of action for Africa. Let us ask other donors to join in this initiative. The Marshall Plan for Africa should cover much more than a call to cancel debt and increase financial support. It should take into account Africa’s potential and the right steps that are needed to realize it. It should build a positive image of our continent and determine the role that it could play in economic, political, social and cultural spheres. Globalization highlights the economic dimension of international relations. However, we need to invest more in the social dimension of development by enhancing the role of the Economic and Social Council so as to meet the legitimate aspirations of our peoples. The future of Africa lies, of course, with its children. The plan for Africa should describe how we can approve the transfer of knowledge and how we can ensure access for young Africans to the world’s knowledge and expertise, so that the intellectual potential of millions of people will not be wasted. We need to increase literacy levels. We also need an educational system that meets international 5 standards of quality and effectiveness — a system that will foster creativity and help our peoples to realize their dreams; a system that will optimize our countries’ human resources so as to enable us to play an important role in the world economy; a system which will help to close the digital divide among nations. Saving African children also means feeding them. In that respect, overcoming hunger in Africa is an urgent challenge, as millions of people will be affected by this crisis. Madagascar, as a new member of the Southern African Development Community, urges the General Assembly to make that crisis its highest priority. We must act rapidly and with resolve. Let us also improve the situation of women. They deserve to play a more significant role in civil society and in the economic and political arena. I have personally been asked by the Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) project to share their concerns with you. Indeed, one of the most burdensome daily chores of African women is providing a family with water. Access to drinking water for all frees women from servitude and thus preserves their dignity. Moreover, the issue of water management is inseparable from those of sanitation and hygiene. Water is a source of life and a great economic asset. The development of hydroelectric energy is one solution to Africa’s energy deficit. Let us not forget that rational water management will enable us to achieve food self-sufficiency. Such a Marshall Plan should include the protection and development of natural resources, which are crucial to our continent. To that end, we have a vision, which we call “Madagascar, naturally”. Two years ago in Durban, I announced our decision to triple the extent of protected areas in the country so as to ensure the preservation of our rich and unique biodiversity. We took the decision to earmark 8 per cent of funds stemming from the cancellation of external debt for the funding of our protected-area system. The African continent already is involved in the preservation of natural resources for the world and will increase its efforts in that area. Let us focus on agribusiness by creating more opportunities for processing our natural products and thus enhancing the value-added that they bring to our countries. This is the approach that Madagascar is taking now, with the support of donors. Let us foster initiatives to establish a fair and equitable trading regime among nations, such as the reduction of trade barriers. In short, such a Marshall Plan should make it clear that the African continent can prosper by shouldering its responsibilities. We need to speak more of our assets than of our weaknesses. We need to speak of our potential rather than our lack of resources. The world wants to invest in our potential. Let us find a fresh approach. Let us create a new image, a new, clear vision for Africa. It is only through such a vision, along with a genuine global strategy for development, that the Millennium Development Goals can be achieved. Such an approach must incorporate the various international and bilateral programmes and projects whose differing structures, objectives and content make them complicated to manage and hinder the identification of possible synergies. But it is incumbent on us to ensure the effective coordination of development and thus adopt the concept of country ownership. We in Madagascar have taken the initiative of setting up national programmes in which all donors’ projects are incorporated. The world must heed the needs of Africa, but Africa must also face up to its responsibilities by strengthening democracy, good governance and the rule of law. The discussions on the role and the structure of the United Nations which have taken place in the context of the sixtieth anniversary offer us an exceptional opportunity. Let us create more equitable structures that are better suited to today’s needs and realities. Let us draw inspiration from the spirit of the founding fathers of our Organization. Let us be nations united in spirit, with a global vision and strategy of development for a world that is not only more dynamic but also more balanced, more equitable and more responsible. Let us work towards that end.It is my pleasure to congratulate you upon your election as President of the General Assembly during its historic sixtieth session. I am fully confident that you will lead its deliberations towards a successful conclusion. I also would like to express my appreciation for the contribution of the Foreign Minister of Gabon during the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I commend the efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, who has sought to make significant changes to this Organization so as to make it better able to meet the demands of the twenty-first century, as envisaged in his report and in his recommendations before this session. The historical context of the creation of our current international order, with its mechanisms and institutions, is a part of a world different from that of today. That world preceded both the cold war and subsequent events, developments and changes in regional and international arenas. Our session this year is, in essence, an important moment in the progress of international collective efforts, prompting us today to seek a new vision and to find systems that are better developed in both their means and structures, in order to address contemporary dangers and threats, as well as rapid world changes. The world today is witnessing many changes that are due to the interdependence of States and to various facts, balances and dangers around the world. As a result, we are obliged to revisit the international collective security system, to thoroughly study the concepts and structures of the United Nations and to provide creative initiatives to address such matters in the twenty-first century spirit of modernity. His Highness Shaikh Salman bin Hamad bin Isa Al-Khalifa, the Crown Prince, underlined this issue in his address on behalf of His Majesty King Hamad bin Isa Al-Khalifa, King of Bahrain, before the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on 15 September 2005. These might be the urgent needs that prompted the Secretary-General to crystallize all this in a series of initiatives and meetings at the beginning of the third millennium, by announcing suggestions for the millennium and its development goals. In his important report to this session, entitled “In larger freedom” (A/59/2005), the Secretary-General explained his vision in a comprehensive and in-depth manner, along with the bases and aims of the work of the international order of our world today. Based on this order we can move towards a modern, capable and democratic system to achieve the three important types of freedom, namely freedom to live in dignity, freedom from want, and freedom from fear. This comprehensive vision of the Secretary-General on issues of international security, development and human rights deserves commendation and thorough and deep analysis in order to reach a broad international consensus. The dangerous escalation today in terrorism and its culture, derived from hatred and fanaticism, are the most serious dangers threatening the international community everywhere. They require us to develop an integrated strategy that halts terrorism and the culture of death and violence that terrorism advocates. This also re-emphasizes the common responsibility of States and societies to find a means to address the root causes of terrorism. We must state that an effective counter-terrorism strategy has to balance the needs of human security and adherence to international human rights instruments and treaties, and has to close loopholes in treaties dealing with the phenomenon of terrorism. In this context, the Kingdom of Bahrain has continued its domestic efforts and its efforts in the Gulf Region with its partner Gulf Cooperation Council countries to fight money-laundering and the financing of terrorism in the Middle East and North Africa geographically, and on the security cooperation level, politically and practically. In this regard, the Kingdom of Bahrain endorses and supports the proposal of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Abdulla Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, King of the brotherly Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, to establish an international centre to fight terrorism. The Kingdom of Bahrain has 16 also submitted its instruments of accession to the United Nations Secretariat in New York for many conventions relating to the fight against terrorism, in accordance with Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). The greatest security challenge in the Middle East is not simply to end terrorism and violence; it also includes the absence of a just and comprehensive peace in the Arab-Israeli conflict, which is an ongoing source of confrontation and a threat to stability and which brings despair to those who have legitimate hopes for a life of dignity and regional economic progress. We must not forget that the year 2005 has opened a path that might lead to an opportunity for peace, through the positive internal developments on the Palestinian side and through Arab and international support for the new leadership of President Mahmood Abbas and his moves towards achieving peace, reducing tension, and promoting democracy. We welcome the Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and hope that this withdrawal will be a significant step towards a just and comprehensive peace in the area. We also hope that this withdrawal will be a part of the road map plan. The achievement of security, stability and peace in the Middle East requires an end to the Israeli occupation of all Arab territories and the full implementation of all relevant United Nations resolutions, as reaffirmed by the Arab initiative adopted by the Arab Summit in Beirut in 2002. That was reaffirmed once again by the latest Arab Summit held this year in Algiers. A just and comprehensive peace cannot be achieved, except through the end of the Israeli occupation of the Arab territories occupied since 1967, including the Syrian Golan and the rest of the Lebanese territories, through the return of Palestinian refugees and through the establishment of the Palestinian State, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. Notwithstanding the democratic choice of the Iraqi people in the elections last January and the appointment of a transitional Government and in spite of the steps taken during the political process and the preparation of the draft constitution, the situation in Iraq today remains very delicate and sensitive. It represents a challenge to international and regional security. It threatens not only the security of Iraq and the region, but also Iraq’s unity, its territorial integrity, cohesion and the consensus of its people. Overcoming this dilemma can be achieved only through a strong historical national consensus on Iraq’s territorial integrity and ethnic diversity, a comprehensive political process and participation in shaping the future of Iraq. This national consensus alone is the guarantee for Iraq to overcome its current predicament and to move from this difficult ordeal to an era of stability, security and peace. In this context, the Kingdom of Bahrain reaffirms its support for the Iraqi people and calls upon all to continue regional and international support for Iraq in order that it may fulfil its responsibilities towards its people and the Arab nation as a whole. In the context of regional security in the Gulf region, the peaceful settlement, either through negotiations or international arbitration, of the long dispute between the United Arab Emirates and its brother, the Islamic Republic of Iran, regarding the three Emirate islands, especially now that there is a new Iranian leadership, will enable the Gulf region to divert its efforts and natural resources to face the challenges of development, security, peace and cooperation. In the area of development and progress, the Kingdom of Bahrain has followed a policy of openness, reform and participation and democracy enhancement, moving towards social, cultural and civil modernization that goes hand in hand with our culture, deep-rooted traditions and values. In the context of its efforts to fulfil the Millennium Development Goals, the Kingdom of Bahrain has taken significant steps to enable women to assume positions of leadership in various walks of life, by launching a new national strategy to promote Bahraini women. Accordingly, in putting forward its candidature for the presidency of the forthcoming sixty-first session of the General Assembly, it has selected a capable person who represents Bahraini women, and who demonstrates experience, wisdom and diplomatic skill. We hope that this nomination will receive wide agreement among Member States. Reaffirming its regional and international status as an economic, financial and banking centre and as part of its efforts to attract greater investment and capital, create employment opportunities for its 17 citizens and strengthen the national economy, the Kingdom of Bahrain has embarked on many major economic and investment projects that will strengthen and enhance the economic and trade position of Bahrain at the regional and international levels. Efforts and initiatives have continued over many decades to achieve a collective security system that will free humanity from the dangers of destruction and annihilation by prohibiting the proliferation of nuclear weapons. However, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty has not achieved its goals despite accession by the majority of countries of the world, including all Arab countries. In this regard, we call upon the international community to establish a nuclear-weapon- free zone in both the Middle East and the Gulf region. We hope that sincere and concerted efforts will continue among Member States to reach a consensus on the reform of the Organization. We trust that the framework of the proposed expansion of the Security Council will reflect the consensus of Member States with a clear and realistic vision and will take into account the interests and expectations of the Arab nations with their profound influence on the political stability, economy, peace and security in the whole world. The recommendations put forward by the Secretary-General in his report “In larger freedom” (A/59/2005) represent comprehensive and ambitious views and aspirations in relation not only to the Security Council, which is entrusted by the Charter with the maintenance of international peace and security, but also to establishing the basis for the entire international system. We all look forward, during this session, to the opening of historic negotiations on the reforms of United Nations organs as well as on working methods. The Kingdom of Bahrain supports the United Nations reform initiative and believes in the necessity of continued negotiations and discussions among Member States in order to reach the results that we all aspire to. The world today, this post-cold-war world, is not yet free of the scourge of war, and its people are still vulnerable to the consequences of terrorism and violence. Today, we urgently need a more modern, stronger, reinvigorated and more credible Organization: an Organization that will bring all nations together and balance their interests, resolve conflicts, build peace and security, uphold justice and the rule of law, oblige all to abide by the provisions of the Charter and international legal resolutions, adapt to the changes of the twenty-first century and meet successfully its challenges. We look forward to a reformed United Nations, which we hope will come into existence soon.I have the honour to inform the members of the General Assembly of the successful conclusion of the parliamentary and provincial elections that took place in my country two days ago. As stated by President Karzai, “the holding of these elections was a major success for the people of Afghanistan and a major defeat for those attempting to derail the political process”. In defiance of the threats posed by the enemies of peace and stability in Afghanistan, Al-Qaida and the Taliban, millions of men and women enthusiastically travelled to polling stations to cast their votes. With the conclusion of these elections, the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan has now completed the final phase of the Bonn Agreement, sponsored by the United Nations in December 2001. The determination and political will expressed by the people of Afghanistan have made possible the gradual, yet arduous, transition towards stability and democracy in Afghanistan. During the course of the transition, Afghanistan successfully convened two loya jirgas, adopted a new Constitution enshrining the principles of democracy, held its first-ever presidential elections and, most recently, concluded its parliamentary and provincial elections. In this context, allow me to express on behalf of the people and the Government of Afghanistan our most sincere gratitude and appreciation to the United Nations, the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force, coalition forces, Provincial Reconstruction Teams, international observers and other international partners for the assistance rendered towards achieving this objective. Allow me to highlight briefly some of the other achievements that have taken place during the past four years. The Government of Afghanistan continues to make significant progress with regard to the reform of the security sector and the formation of the national army and police in order to further extend and consolidate peace and authority throughout the country. The disarmament and demobilization of 60,000 former combatants has been completed. In that regard, the Government of Afghanistan reaffirms its commitment to complete the reintegration of ex-combatants as the final phase of a successful disarmament, demobilization and reintegration process. Significant progress has been made in the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Our new Constitution guarantees equal rights for men and women, freedom of expression, freedom of press and political pluralism. The Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission has been institutionalized as an independent body in accordance with our Constitution. The Commission continues to fulfil its mandate. We have also witnessed the enrolment of more than 5 million children, both boys and girls, in school. Repatriation of millions of refugees from neighbouring countries has also taken place during the past four years. The significant increase in the role of women in the social, political and economic life of the country is also worth mentioning. The cultivation of opium poppy and the production of narcotic drugs in Afghanistan remains a prime concern of my Government. The establishment of a counter-narcotics ministry, the creation of a special tribunal to prosecute those associated with the cultivation, production and trafficking of illegal drugs and the formation of the Committee on Counter- Narcotics, chaired by President Karzai, are only some of the initiatives taken by the Afghan Government aimed at combating and eliminating the scourge of narcotic drugs. I am pleased to refer to the recent report of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, which rightly reflected a 21 per cent decrease in the cultivation of opium poppy in Afghanistan during the current year. However, in order to build on this achievement, we must offer alternative livelihoods to rural communities. A successful strategy in combating illicit drugs requires additional measures aside from 25 asking farmers to plant substitute crops. We have to provide them with agricultural assistance, invest in irrigation, build roads and provide electric power and assistance in generating non-farm employment in rural areas. Many of the achievements realized in Afghanistan since the signing of the Bonn Agreement would not have been possible without the vigorous support of the international community. I take this opportunity to extend our deep gratitude to all international partners and lead nations which offered generous support throughout the process. In this context, we emphasize the importance of the sustained engagement and support of the international community over the coming years for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Afghanistan, as well as for the consolidation of peace and security. Despite the achievements to which I referred earlier, the people of Afghanistan continue to face many challenges in their daily lives. Extreme poverty, a high rate of infant and maternal mortality and a lack of resources necessary to ensure basic social services continue to exist. The outcome document adopted on 16 September 2005 (resolution 60/1) has laid the foundation for a more effective and efficient United Nations better able to address issues relating to development, peace and security, human rights, reform of the United Nations and achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. The Government of Afghanistan welcomes the proposal adopted in the outcome document with regard to the establishment of a Peacebuilding Commission. As a country emerging from years of conflict, Afghanistan fully understands the need for a coordinated, coherent and integrated approach to post- conflict peacebuilding. My Government also supports the decision that the Commission should begin its work by no later than 31 December 2005. As a result of ongoing efforts by Afghanistan and the international community to combat international terrorism, my country no longer serves as a base for Al-Qaida and the Taliban. However, the people of Afghanistan continue to suffer from the scourge of international terrorism. Terrorism remains one of the main challenges to peace, stability and sustainable development in Afghanistan. The continued infiltration of Al-Qaida and Taliban extremists in the south and parts of the east of the country remains a factor contributing to insecurity in my country. We therefore reiterate the importance of a sincere commitment by all the countries of the region to combating that scourge. The Government of Afghanistan once again vehemently condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. In that context, we support every effort aimed at the successful conclusion of a comprehensive convention on international terrorism by the end of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. The Secretary-General clearly highlighted the interrelationship between development and security in his report “In larger freedom” (A/59/2005), which, in paragraph 2 of the annex, states, “There will be no development without security and no security without development”. The case of Afghanistan could not be more relevant in that respect. Achieving the Millennium Development Goals in Afghanistan is not just a desirable humanitarian objective, but a necessity for the security of the country, the region and the world. Attaining the Goals will require a substantial amount of international aid, provided in a coordinated and sustained manner. My Government is in the process of preparing Afghanistan’s national development strategy, which will be presented at the donor conference on Afghanistan scheduled to take place early next year. The national development strategy encompasses a clear approach to achieving our national development goals and addresses vital areas such as capacity-building, fiscal sustainability, building infrastructure and prioritizing projects. The Afghanistan national development strategy will also present Afghanistan’s overarching strategy for promoting growth and reducing poverty, and will serve as the country’s overall strategy for attracting international assistance. The national development strategy will be prepared in a consultative process with all stakeholders, including donors, civil society, the private sector and provincial councils. Through a post- Bonn compact, Afghanistan will subscribe to a new set of timetables and benchmarks for providing security, building democratic institutions, protecting human rights and reducing extreme poverty in accordance with our MDG targets, reforming the administration, eliminating corruption, ending the production of and 26 traffic in narcotic drugs and developing cooperation with our neighbours. As a landlocked country, Afghanistan will not be able to achieve its intended economic goals without the support and mutual cooperation of its neighbours. The Government of Afghanistan emphasizes the importance of regional economic cooperation for the benefit of all countries in the region. Trade plays a major role in promoting economic growth, employment and development for all. The volume of trade between Afghanistan and its neighbours has been growing steadily. Just last year, the estimated value of trade between Afghanistan and its neighbours amounted to $1.5 billion. I would like in conclusion to express Afghanistan’s full commitment to the implementation of the outcome document. We are of the conviction that the adoption of that historic document will further enhance the central role of the United Nations in addressing the threats and challenges facing humanity at the dawn of the twenty-first century.Lithuania welcomes this effort — the most extensive and ambitious ever made — to renew the United Nations. We must ensure that the summit commitments we all have undertaken are implemented and that they produce real and tangible results, in order to improve the Organization’s capacity to act adequately, effectively, expeditiously and in the best interests of us all. Their implementation should also enable us to give hope to the vulnerable and the destitute and to make the world a better place for all. We welcome the affirmation by the outcome document of the inextricable link between development, security and human rights. That, in our view, is a sine qua non for all our future actions. We welcome the reaffirmation of the commitments regarding the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. As a member State of the European Union, we are proud of the Union’s commitment to double its overall aid level by the year 2010, including a considerable increase in aid to Africa. We support the establishment of a Democracy Fund for countries seeking to establish or strengthen their democratic practices. In our view, that Fund will contribute to maximizing the impact of development assistance by focusing on the improvement of governance standards. Transparent and democratic governance practices can make quite a difference in the performance of countries that are otherwise quite similar in terms of their natural resources and social structure. We emphasize the role of international trade in promoting economic growth and development and thus in fighting poverty. We therefore add our voice to calls for a rapid, ambitious and development-oriented completion of the Doha trade round. Furthermore, Lithuania is convinced that all development and all relevant related strategies should have a built-in element of environmental sustainability. We welcome the language of the outcome document to that effect but believe that we should go further. In particular, we underline the importance of going beyond Kyoto by initiating negotiations on the development of a more inclusive and equitable international framework for climate change beyond the year 2012. Lithuania welcomes the strong and unconditional condemnation of terrorism in the outcome document. 36 We call on the General Assembly to complete, at its sixtieth session, work on a comprehensive convention on terrorism and on a global counter-terrorism strategy, as proposed by the Secretary-General earlier this year. We strongly welcome the endorsement of “responsibility to protect” populations from genocide, war crimes and ethnic cleansing. This is of fundamental importance; it is an important step that gives us hope that we shall no longer look away nor stand idly by as entire populations are being killed. Lithuania fully supports the proposals regarding United Nations management reform. We hope the blueprint to be submitted by the Secretary-General will not fall victim to endless debates by Member States but, rather, lead to tangible changes, improving the Organization’s accountability, transparency, efficiency and professionalism, while assuring the highest ethical standards. Too often in the past, we have seen nations emerging from conflict lapse into disruption and chaos, thus destabilizing entire regions. We therefore call for rapid progress in making the Peacebuilding Commission fully operational before the end of this year. While expressing our satisfaction with the agreement to double resources for the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, we urge all nations to take conclusive decisions in the coming months on the basis of the wording agreed to by the vast majority of countries in establishing a robust and effective Human Rights Council. At the same time, we have to admit that the outcome document is lacking considerably in some areas. We are well aware that the reform process is not a one-time event. As we proceed along the path of United Nations reform, we must make sure these areas are not left out. First, there is the issue of impunity. The fight against impunity and the rendering of justice must be part and parcel of our common efforts to improve the human rights situation worldwide. We stress our support for the International Criminal Court, as well as the existing ad hoc and mixed criminal tribunals and other mechanisms for international justice. Secondly, there is the question of Security Council reform which cannot be delayed further, especially if we really care about restoring the authority and credibility of the United Nations. The Council’s working methods must be improved to provide greater input from non-member States. Its membership must be expanded in both the permanent and non-permanent categories, with due consideration being paid to equitable geographical representation and the recent emergence of new international actors and contributors. Lithuania has long supported the candidacies of Germany and Japan as permanent members of the Security Council. We appreciate the aspirations of India and Brazil to undertake the honourable responsibility of permanent membership, and we agree that Africa’s representation in both categories of membership is long overdue. After 11 years of debate on the issue of Security Council reform, it is time to admit that we are unlikely to produce new arguments without repeating ourselves indefinitely. Lithuania, therefore, calls on all Member States to assume their responsibilities and to take action. Finally, let me touch upon the failure to agree, in the outcome document, on the issues of non- proliferation and disarmament. This is the major failure of our summit, especially in the light of the unfortunate conclusion of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference earlier this year. We must honour our earlier agreements and obligations, restore consensus and invest all our efforts in search of agreement on this crucial issue. We therefore call on all nations to rally around the initiative put forward by Norway and a group of like-minded countries; we believe this initiative could become a basis of viable consensus and future cooperative action. Last December, we witnessed an unprecedented outburst of solidarity with the Asian tsunami victims. These past few weeks, our hearts were with the people of the United States, whose citizens saw their lives shattered and whole communities destroyed by Hurricane Katrina. We offered whatever assistance we could to those affected and we extend our condolences to all those who have suffered from this enormous devastation. In moments of grief and sorrow, we are one. Pain has no nationality, no religion, no race. Similarly, we should all be one in our solidarity. We should not have to wait for new cataclysms and large-scale tragedies in order to agree on the need to build a renewed United Nations for the new century. As Secretary-General 37 Kofi Annan has repeatedly noted, in this globalized, interrelated world, it is the collective interest that is often in our best national interest.I should like, first and foremost, to convey, once again, my sincere sympathy in connection with the victims of the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina. Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I would also like to pay high tribute to Mr. Jean Ping, your predecessor, for his distinguished leadership. The 60-year history of the United Nations has been a pathway towards a peaceful, prosperous and just world. The path followed by Japan during that time has been, indeed, that of a nation striving for an honoured place among peace-loving nations. Building upon the determination that it will never again follow the path to war, Japan has pursued, and will continue to pursue, international peace and stability in partnership with the United Nations. Japan needs an effective and efficient United Nations and strongly endorses the outcome document of the summit. To that end, our leadersí commitments, as expressed in the document, must be translated into action with the utmost urgency. Japan will spare no effort in that endeavour. The new United Nations must be equipped with a better peacebuilding capacity. We expect the proposed Peacebuilding Commission to help to achieve that objective. To that end, Japan will continue to play a constructive role, making full use of its experience and resources. In the Gaza Strip, the reconstruction effort after the Israeli withdrawal has been crucial. Japan has implemented more than $110 million worth of assistance since the beginning of this year, in the fervent hope that we will now see the resumption of the road map. As the largest donor to the Trust Fund for Iraqi reconstruction, Japan has devoted its energies to bringing together the international community in the reconstruction effort. Humanitarian and reconstruction assistance by Japan's Self-Defence Forces and official development assistance (ODA) are contributing in tandem to progress towards a peaceful and prosperous Iraq. Japan has pledged ODA amounting to $5 billion, of which $1.5 billion in grant assistance has already been implemented. Japan has taken the lead in assisting the Afghan efforts for disarmament, demobilization and reintegration (DDR), in conjunction with the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA). As a result, about 63,000 ex-combatants are to complete the reintegration programme by the end of next June. Japanese Self-Defence Forces vessels are engaged in activities in the Indian Ocean in support of the countries fighting against terrorism. Japan has announced that its contribution will total $1 billion by the end of March 2006, including assistance in the field of security. It is essential to ensure a sense of justice in a society struggling to recover from its suffering in the aftermath of conflict. In the area of establishing the rule of law, Japan, in cooperation with the Government of Cambodia, has taken the lead in setting up a tribunal to try members of the Khmer Rouge, with a contribution of over $20 million. 41 Sixty summers have passed since Hiroshima and Nagasaki suffered the indescribable horrors of nuclear devastation. Japan again calls upon all Member States to renew their determination to bring about a peaceful world free of nuclear weapons. To that end, Japan will submit a draft resolution to the General Assembly presenting a concrete agenda to strengthen the disarmament and non-proliferation regime, including a call for the early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). In that regard, it is extremely regrettable that the 2005 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) concluded without adopting a consensus document on substantive issues, and that the outcome document found no consensus on disarmament and non- proliferation. The Democratic People's Republic of Koreaís nuclear programmes pose a serious challenge to the international non-proliferation regime, centring on the NPT, and constitute a direct threat to peace and stability in North-East Asia. Japan is committed to a peaceful resolution of the nuclear issue through the six- party talks and strongly hopes that the Democratic Peopleís Republic of Korea will accept the prompt and verifiable dismantlement of all its nuclear weapons and nuclear programmes at the current round of talks in Beijing. Japan will continue to make every effort to ensure that the nuclear issue, along with the missile and abduction issues, is comprehensively resolved in accordance with the Pyongyang Declaration. Japan believes that the Iranian nuclear issue should be resolved through negotiations by diplomatic means. To that end, Japan strongly urges Iran to implement, in a spirit of sincerity, all the requirements set out in the relevant resolutions of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Board of Governors, including the full suspension of uranium conversion activities, and to return to the negotiating table with the three European Union States. In recent years, we have witnessed countless tragedies caused by terrorist acts. Japan, for its part, has continued to provide assistance to countries in need of capacity-building in the area of counter-terrorism. To consolidate the international legal framework, Japan calls on Member States to join international counter- terrorism conventions and protocols, including the newly adopted International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. Development provides a foundation for peace and stability. The new United Nations must serve as an effective Organization for the promotion of development. Having recovered from the devastation of the Second World War with global assistance, Japan is in a better position than any other country to demonstrate the significance of ownership and partnership, poverty reduction through economic growth, and human security in promoting development. The concept of human security ó focusing on the protection and empowerment of individuals ó offers a meaningful approach in a world striving for freedom and dignity. The concept also provides an important viewpoint with respect to the protection of human rights. I look forward to forthcoming discussions on this concept in the General Assembly, to which leaders committed themselves in the outcome document. Based on its experiences as a recipient, and also a donor for more than a half century, Japan has been keen to make an impact on world development and thus has contributed one-fifth of world ODA over the past 10 years. Japan is resolved to continue its support for achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). To that end, Japan intends to increase its ODA volume by $10 billion over the next five years. For the achievement of the MDGs, addressing the issues facing Africa is critically important. As Prime Minister Koizumi announced during the Asia-Africa summit, Japan will double its ODA to Africa in the next three years and host the fourth Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD) meeting in 2008. In an effort to support Africansí own efforts to bring about peace and stability, Japan has devoted its energies to the consolidation of peace in such countries as the Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sierra Leone, Burundi and Liberia. With respect to the Sudan, Japan has decided to disburse more than half of its pledged assistance of $100 million, with a contribution of personnel through the United Nations Mission in the Sudan (UNMIS). Furthermore, to address the humanitarian crisis in Africa and in other regions caused by infectious diseases, Japan has announced $500 million in financial assistance in the coming years for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Japan 42 will contribute $5 billion over the next five years to the ìHealth and Developmentî Initiative. Japan has also taken steps to address the ìforgotten crisesî in Africa and will continue to focus on those issues. At no other time in its history has an effective, efficient and credible United Nations been more needed than today. The credibility of the United Nations is at stake. The basic structure of the Security Council continues to reflect the world of 1945. Reform of the Security Council therefore remains key to achieving the overall renewal of the United Nations. The fact that an overwhelming majority of Member States - 166 countries in all - called for Security Council reform during the previous session of the General Assembly is a testament to the urgent need for reform. For the first time in the 60-year history of the United Nations, during the last General Assembly session we witnessed the submission of draft resolutions calling for fundamental change in the composition of the Security Council. Japan is proud to have taken the lead in promoting Security Council reform. It is encouraging, as well, that a large number of leaders at the recent summit expressed their support for reform. I believe that Japan's path of striving for international peace speaks for itself, and should serve as the basis for a larger role for Japan as a permanent member of a reformed Security Council. I can assure you, Mr. President, that Japan will continue to make its utmost effort to realize the reform under your leadership. And I call on Member States to reach an early decision at this session of the General Assembly. The new United Nations requires an efficient and effective Secretariat, with a strong sense of integrity. Japan is deeply concerned about recent developments, including the failure over the oil-for-food programme. The management and administration of the United Nations system must be transparent and accountable to Member States and their citizens. In this regard, Japan will promote and conduct more comprehensive performance evaluation of United Nations activities. With respect to the anachronistic ìenemy Stateî clauses, I am pleased to note that the leaders resolved in the outcome document (resolution 60/1) to delete these obsolete clauses from the Charter at the earliest opportunity. A comprehensive review is also needed in order to reach agreement on a scale of assessment structure that is more equitable and fair. Japan will actively participate in the negotiations to be concluded by the end of next year. In the upcoming negotiation process, Japan will make its utmost effort to ensure that the status and responsibilities of a Member State are duly taken into account in the scale of assessments. We have embarked on a mission to renew the United Nations. A great deal of work lies ahead. I call upon all representatives in this Hall to dedicate themselves to accomplishing this unfinished mission by the close of this commemorative session of the General Assembly.It is a pleasure to join preceding speakers in congratulating Mr. Jan Eliasson on his election as President at the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. In particular, I welcome the fact that the international community has given him the honour of being elected President of the General Assembly, at its present session at which we are commemorating the sixtieth anniversary of the Organization. Moreover, at the present session we shall, above all, work to implement the commitments undertaken by the heads of State or Government to strengthen United Nations reform and adapt the Organization to the changes on the international stage so that it can remain the forum for coordination and debate, an irreplaceable instrument for conflict prevention and management and the body for upholding international law and the integrity of States. I also congratulate the President at the fifty-ninth session, Mr. Jean Ping, Minister of State and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Cooperation and la Francophonie of the Gabonese Republic. With his great human qualities and his skill as a statesman, he carried out his mission with tact and personal engagement. Finally, allow me to convey to Secretary-General Kofi Annan the encouragement and the gratitude of Mr. Joseph Kabila, President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for his commitment to finding a solution to the crisis in the Great Lakes region and for the importance that he attaches to the protection of the values of human dignity. Mr. Eliasson is presiding over the General Assembly at a pivotal moment for our Organization. It would be hard not to make a connection between the history of my country, the President’s mandate and the destiny of an eminent citizen of his country, Sweden, who gained fame in my country for his commitment to the cause of peace. I am referring to Mr. Dag Hammarskjöld, the second Secretary-General of the United Nations. As the President has assumed his functions in September, it should be recalled that on 20 September 1960, my country became a Member of the United Nations. And on 18 September 1961, the late Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld gave his life for his commitment to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I pay tribute to the memory and the courage of that hero, as well as to the civilian and military members of the United Nations Operation in the Congo who lost their lives alongside our soldiers while defending the sovereignty and the integrity of our territory. A comparison of the United Nations involvement in the Congo in 1960 and that of the present reveals a number of similarities, including the tireless dedication to the cause of peace demonstrated by the Blue Helmets. My country has twice benefited from peace operations, and we know the price paid by United Nations forces to save us from disaster. Our first-hand 31 experience of United Nations intervention strengthens our belief that now, more than ever, the world needs a strong, reformed United Nations. As discussions on Security Council reform have reached a crucial stage, it is time for us to acknowledge that, in spite of its limitations, the United Nations — the forum of nations — has become the conscience of humanity. Its present and future role can be addressed only when one reflects on recent changes in the world and on the Organization’s capacity to adapt to the new challenges posed by development, the debt crisis, the specific needs of the least developed countries, terrorism and the issues of human rights, peace and collective security. In that context, it is desirable for the United Nations to modify its structure in order to be better able to face new and old challenges and promote the values of our civilization, founded on the principles of freedom and democracy. The desired enlargement of the Security Council, as envisaged, is now a requirement of the greatest democratic importance. But while it is necessary, it is not in itself sufficient to ensure the harmonious and efficient functioning of the United Nations system. We must go further, beyond mere expansion, to realize the ambitions that Member States have for the United Nations. Security Council reform should not overshadow the need to review the other United Nations organs, in particular the Economic and Social Council, the Secretariat and the General Assembly, with a view to strengthening their mandates, and enabling the President of the General Assembly to play a primary role in seeking solutions to international problems. Also in the context of reform, my country looks forward to the establishment of the new Peacebuilding Commission and to the creation of multi-year standing funds. That would enable countries emerging from conflict to receive real, substantial contributions in support of rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts and would help those countries lay the foundations for sustainable development. The international community has invested heavily in the work of rebuilding State structures in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and has provided significant support through the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC). I convey the deep gratitude of the Congolese people. In the context of the holding of transparent multiparty elections to put an end to the crisis of legitimacy and the endless loop of transitions, the Democratic Republic of the Congo is taking giant steps towards concluding the transition process. I would like to assure the Assembly of the determination of the Government of National Unity to carry out the transition in accordance with the constitutional timetable. The adoption by referendum of a draft constitution by the end of the year will make the process irreversible. The elections must take place. And it is certain that they will take place, because of the great determination of the Congolese people and the great commitment of the Government of National Unity. The harmonious progress in the process, despite some logistic constraints related to the immense size of the national territory and the complexity of the voter registration process, leads us to predict with confidence that the various electoral deadlines will be met. To date, nearly 12 million voters have been registered, bearing out the enthusiasm that has been in evidence since the start of the registration process. It is now urgent to quickly stabilize the security situation, including, in particular, through the prompt resolution of the worrisome issue of the disarmament of foreign armed groups, which threaten to disturb, even compromise, the proper holding of elections. It should be recalled that it is urgent to support the efforts of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to put an end to the presence of armed groups in the eastern part of the national territory and ensure their repatriation, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, the African Union and the Economic Community of Central African States. Adequate support for the training and equipping of our restructured and integrated armed forces, as well as the firm engagement of MONUC, will lead those groups to disarm. However, the Democratic Republic of the Congo has never preferred the military option or ever felt that it was the only possible way to ensure the repatriation of the foreign armed elements that have proliferated in the North and South Kivus. Therefore we have maintained contacts, through various intermediaries, with representatives of the Front démocratique pour la libération du Rwanda, which has 32 kept open the possibility of sustained voluntary disarmament followed by the voluntary repatriation of Rwandese armed elements. Two sets of consultations were held — in March and in September 2005 — but so far they have not led to the hoped-for results. If they fail, we will have to reconsider the option of forced disarmament, no matter what the cost for the Congolese armed forces, to whom it will fall to enforce it. The Democratic Republic of the Congo is grateful to the Security Council for having authorized MONUC to take action under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, whose application has had real results in Ituri. Recourse to Chapter VII in other areas, however, in particular in the North and South Kivus, has not yet had the full deterrent effect anticipated. Therefore, is it not time to consider, as the Security Council has wished, what assistance to provide to the Forces armées de la République démocratique du Congo to realize the forced disarmament of the militias? Naturally, the successful outcome of such an operation will also depend on the determination of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and of MONUC, and, above all, on the sincere commitment of our neighbours. The latter must refrain from any form of negative interference that would compromise efforts to neutralize the militias and other armed groups. Beyond our security and strictly political concerns, we must also meet the legitimate needs of a population that for years has been deprived of its basic subsistence requirements. The economic and social policy of the Transitional Government seeks, in the short term, to meet the requirements to combat poverty, as well as to restructure the legal and financial sectors and to help restart productive activities — areas where a certain degree of success has been achieved. The State budget has increased substantially, the exchange rate has been stabilized, inflation is under control and, for the past three years, growth rates have ranged from 6 to 7 per cent. Those favourable economic developments have enabled us to launch a number of recovery plans in the areas of basic infrastructure and education, as well as in the field of health, by combating major epidemics and pandemics. But the pace of progress in the social sphere is slow: very slow, in view of the people’s numerous expectations. In order to consolidate the gains we have made, we will need to pick up the pace of our activities and rapidly institute social initiatives that will have a visible impact. We therefore welcome the commitments made by our bilateral and multilateral partners to assist us in that direction. The Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is well aware of the importance of regional cooperation and of good-neighbourliness. For that reason, we support the Secretary-General’s initiative — in conjunction with the Group of Friends of the Great Lakes Region — to organize in Nairobi an International Conference on Peace, Security, Democracy and Development in the region. My country has been the main battleground of an armed conflict, with a toll of over 3 million dead, massive infringements of human rights and of international humanitarian law, the destruction of hospitals, schools, roads and bridges and the looting of natural resources and other forms of wealth. For that reason, my country hopes to be one of the main beneficiaries of the special reconstruction fund that has been set up within the framework of the International Conference on the Great Lakes region, and a priority zone in the subregion for rehabilitation and development. The trials experienced by the Congolese people, and by all the peoples of the Great Lakes region, enable us to understand the aspirations for peace voiced by other peoples. We therefore support the peace process in the Middle East. The Democratic Republic of the Congo welcomes the withdrawal of Israeli troops from the Gaza Strip. We believe that that initiative is an important step forward, one that should be consolidated in order to ensure peace and to put an end to the cycle of violence in that region. The sensitivity and the complexity of that situation further emphasize the commitment made by the State of Israel and by the Palestinian Authority to reach a negotiated solution to the crisis in the Middle East. I also wish to commend the United Nations and the African Union for their efforts to bring the elections in Burundi and the Central African Republic to a successful conclusion. The positive outcome of the reconciliation processes in those two countries, as well as the prospects for positive developments in the situation in the Congo, bode well for the emergence of a new period of stability, democracy and prosperity for Central Africa. 33 In view of new threats, I wish to reaffirm the commitment of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the principles upon which our collective security is based. The coming years will be a time of increased competition among nations in the areas of trade, financial markets and research, including nuclear research; rapid globalization, made possible through information and communication technologies, has given rise at times to sometimes uncontrolled liberalization and bitter competition. It is thus our historic responsibility to equip the United Nations with the resources and structures not only to keep the peace wherever necessary and to guarantee our collective security wherever it is threatened, but also to better address issues of economic and social development, to establish more equitable rules of the game for international trade, to fight collectively and effectively against illiteracy, ignorance, intolerance, epidemics, disease and natural disasters, and, naturally, against terrorism, violence and injustice in all their forms so that we can build a more brotherly, peaceful, humane and just world.Allow me at the outset to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I would like to express to you the full support of the Republic of Slovenia as you carry out that extremely important and responsible task. May you have much vision, courage and resolve as you preside over the General Assembly during this anniversary year. Mr. Sardenberg (Brazil), Vice-President, took the Chair. At the same time, Sir, I would like to express our sincere recognition and gratitude for the efforts of your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, President at the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. His determined leadership, his insight into the current issues of the modern world and his enduring courage enabled him to guide the General Assembly in its sixtieth year, which promises to be a year of the greatest significance for the future of the Organization. We have assembled here to consider together in good faith how we should respond to the challenges of modern times and how our Organization should be adapted to the needs of the twenty-first century. We are here to act on the basis of our best understanding and our belief in the achievements of creative development for the well-being of the people of the modern world, to quote, Sir, your illustrious compatriot, Dag Hammarskjöld. The outcome document contains numerous meaningful and useful ideas. That document’s purpose is to enhance the effectiveness of the United Nations and consolidate its mission in the modern world. The reform of the Organization is of the utmost importance and was initiated at the right moment. This is a time of change for several international organizations and institutions. All are certainly aware of the current transformation of the European Union and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Such changes are difficult. We encounter obstacles such as the rejection of the European Constitutional Treaty in two referendums. The effectiveness of the machinery and the mission of the United Nations should also be improved through the creation of the Human Rights Council and the fight against terrorism. There were many discussions and diverging views on those two questions in relation to the outcome document. However, we cannot be successful if we have difficulty even defining terrorism or establishing the Human Rights Council. There is some indecisiveness in the outcome document in that respect. With respect to terrorism, the document speaks of dialogue and understanding among civilizations. With respect to the Human Rights Council, the outcome document proposes holding further negotiations to establish, among other things, its mandate and working methods. In today’s world, change and certainty are closely connected and interdependent. Attaining a balance between them involves values, rules, laws and the institutions of human dignity, equality and democracy — in short, human rights. The fact is, we live in a globalized and interdependent world in which we all are responsible for our security. It is significant that the outcome document warns that there can be no development without security and no security without development, and that both development and security depend to a 32 great degree on respect for human rights, the rule of law and democracy. Many efforts have been made to address the sources of suffering in the world. United Nations Member States must continue to support efforts to attain the Millennium Development Goals. Twenty-five European Union (EU) member States committed themselves to the target of allocating 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product (GDP) to official development assistance by 2015. In that context, Slovenia, one of the 10 new EU members and a new donor, committed itself to attaining the target of 0.33 per cent of GDP for development aid. We underline the need for the long-term commitment and responsibility of all countries in order to attain the Millennium Development Goals. We are continuously surprised at the changing nature of the threats facing each and every country. The concept of security includes both State security and the security of the individual. Thus, it is important to effectively address various issues, in particular disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, as well as the problem of the proliferation of illegal small arms and light weapons, which affects numerous countries. We are rather disappointed that the outcome document does not include provisions on non-proliferation and disarmament, and we hope that work on those issues will continue after the summit. Terrorist attacks on innocent people fundamentally contradict the value systems of modern countries, in particular human rights, as formulated and stated in international conventions and declarations. Terrorist attacks are a violation of human rights, which are the foundation of modern societies; they represent an assault on the very essence of those societies and thus negate their very modernity. This negation is connected with the complex and paradoxical nature of the concept of modernity. It seems that the fundamental frustration caused by this complex and paradoxical nature drives terrorists to commit radical actions. Terrorism cannot tolerate the complex and paradoxical character of modern societies. Measures in the fight against terrorism are aimed at those whose actions deny and reject human rights as a fundamental value of modern societies. By examining terrorists’ attitudes and the meaning of terrorism, we should be able to define terrorism. An agreed definition of terrorism would provide clarity and help better ensure human rights. The more fully human rights are protected, the more successful we will be in our fight against terrorism. Human rights will be more fully protected when terrorism is without protection. Tolerating or justifying terrorism undermines human rights. That does not mean, however, that we can fail to respect human rights in waging our fight against terrorism. It is precisely universal respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including in the fight against terrorism, that will ensure the success of that fight and preserve the democratic and free principles of those societies which are being targeted by terrorists. Slovenia welcomes the affirmation of the principle of the responsibility to protect. By endorsing that principle, world leaders have made a conceptual breakthrough in the prevention of future tragedies like those of Srebrenica, Rwanda and Darfur. For the first time, we have recognized our national and collective responsibility to act in cases of genocide and ethnic cleansing, war crimes and crimes against humanity. Slovenia considers the responsibility to protect to be an integral part of national responsibility to protect a country’s people against atrocities. It is our understanding that the Security Council shares the responsibility to protect and that the use of the veto in the Council is fundamentally incompatible with that responsibility. We welcome the establishment of a Democracy Fund and intend to contribute to it. We strongly support a strengthened role for the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. The strengthened role of the Office, to be financed from the United Nations regular budget, is good news for the realization of human rights on the ground. The level of agreement on the Human Rights Council is a disappointment. Numerous countries wanted and expected more. Unfortunately, for the moment, we are left without the necessary vision of a new Council, even though, in the preparations for the summit, we formulated good proposals for the Council’s structure and mandate. Slovenia wants a standing Council that is a principal organ of the United Nations, able to deal with all human rights concerns in all countries at all times. We want a Council that better addresses rights and freedoms, without double standards. We want a 33 Council that could convene and act in every instance of massive violation of human rights. We want a Council able to make recommendations to other organs and agencies of the United Nations system so that human rights are truly integrated in all areas of the Organization. Finally, we want a Council that reflects the diversity of the modern world and that gives a proper voice to civil society through non-governmental organizations. In the course of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly, Slovenia will continue to actively support the establishment of a strong and efficient new Human Rights Council. I have already mentioned the dialogue of civilizations. That dialogue should be based on universal, fundamental values. No differentiation between “us” and “them” should be tolerated. Human rights and fundamental freedoms are the manifestation of our common fundamental values. They are the best answer for ensuring a dignified life in our globalized, fast-paced and increasingly unsafe world. On the basis of our wealth of traditions and history and creative diversity, all individuals should be informed of and be able to realize their rights and freedoms, as this is the best long-term foundation for peace and development. Educating people about human rights and dignity is a prerequisite for this goal, and we are thrilled to see that the need for such education is properly reflected in the outcome document. As a member State of the Human Security Network we are pleased that the issue of human security has been included in the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting and will continue to be discussed in the General Assembly. Cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations deserves our priority attention in future. As experiences from a variety of geographic environments and conditions have shown — in particular in South-Eastern Europe and Africa — synergetic cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations can be very effective. As Chairman-in-Office of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), I call for the elaboration of a binding framework for permanent cooperation between the United Nations and that important regional organization as soon as possible. For 30 years now, OSCE has proved effective in very sensitive regions of the world. This year marks the thirtieth anniversary of the Helsinki Final Act, which established OSCE. Thirty years ago, the integration of East and West began. Today, our main duty is to integrate civilizations. One of the areas that should be further developed is strengthening dialogue among civilizations. It may be that the supreme importance of our outcome document rests on that dialogue.First of all, let me take this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Jan Eliasson on his election to the high position of President of the General Assembly and to wish him every success in guiding the work of the session. I would also like to thank his predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for his able leadership as the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. It is obvious that the years-long process of reorganizing the entire system of international relations, in particular reform of the United Nations, has been unreasonably delayed. The 2005 summit was an important stage in exploring mutually acceptable formulas and in adopting goals whose implementation will lead us to the achievement of development and security. Some of the decisions taken at the summit were medium-term and others long-term in nature. But, in our view, our primary task is to ensure their full implementation and not to allow inertia to impede this, as has been the case in the process of implementing the Millennium Development Goals. Strengthening the capacity of the United Nations to achieve its goals in the three areas of development, security and human rights requires appropriate and active adaptation of the entire United Nations system. In this connection we consider it important to make the following comments. First, regardless of how important it is to reform and modernize the United Nations, there is, at present, no alternative to the Organization. Secondly, further delay in reform of the most important bodies of the Organization will negatively impact its role in the modern world. There is a real danger that if the United Nations fails to take action, its coordinating role will gradually pass to other international structures, which lack the degree of broad representation that the United Nations enjoys. Thirdly, the reform of three main bodies of the United Nations — the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council — should provide balance in their work. In that regard, we consider it to be in our common interest that Security Council reform not be prolonged. It should be carried 26 out during the main part of the sixtieth session, before the year is out. Fourthly, regional approaches should be given priority in dealing with development, security and human rights issues. The effectiveness of the principle of moving from regional to global approaches has already been proved on many occasions. At present, Uzbekistan is implementing its national goals for economic development. It is carrying out economic reforms and taking measures to strengthen regional economic cooperation. However, any national efforts need to be supported by international economic structures. It is important that genuine conditions for an equal and fair international economic order be established. International donors must provide their full support for regional cooperation, and interested developing countries, in turn, need to make that kind of cooperation an integral part of their national strategy. We believe it important for the concerned regional commissions of the United Nations — the Economic Commission for Europe and the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific — to strengthen their work to assist economic development in Central Asia, with a view to the greater and broader involvement of the countries of the region in international economic relations and investment cooperation. We are of the view that the international community, including the United Nations, should pay serious attention to the question of creating a Central Asian common market capable of ensuring the rational and effective use of the rich potential and resources of the region. Uzbekistan supports all efforts to ensure sustainable development. Member States should pool their efforts to tackle problems of environmental degradation, shortages of water resources and drinking water and the deterioration of environmental conditions in cities and industrial zones. The global environmental agenda also calls for the pressing issues of desertification, biodiversity and climate change to be addressed. Acts of terrorism carried out in many regions of the world, including Central Asia, have once again reminded us of the need for a critical assessment of the practice of international cooperation, including within the United Nations, to counter that plague of the twenty-first century, which threatens rich and poor States alike. It is unacceptable to further delay taking measures against those international centres of terrorism and extremism that — under the guise of espousing universal human values — in fact develop and disseminate ideologies of fanaticism. In that connection, we welcome the Security Council’s most recent counter-terrorism resolution — resolution 1624 (2005) of 14 September 2005 — on the suppression of incitement to terrorist acts. At the same time, we believe it is crucial not to allow double standards in the implementation of that instrument. Those considerations should also be concerns in the process of drafting a universal convention on international terrorism. A powerful accomplice of international terrorism is drug trafficking. Unfortunately, no actual progress has been seen in reducing drug production in Afghanistan. On that issue, we need to move urgently from words to action. In that connection, we are counting on the international community’s firm support for Uzbekistan’s initiative to establish a Central Asian regional information and coordination centre to counter transboundary crimes related to drug trafficking. The President returned to the Chair. Together with the pressing problems of development and security there is the issue of human rights. That issue is central to forging a new path in international relations, and to United Nations reform, in particular. In his report, “In larger freedom” (A/59/2005), the Secretary-General notes that international treaties adopted over the past six decades form an impressive normative basis for ensuring full international acknowledgement and respect for human rights and freedoms. There is no doubt that protection of human rights needs to be one of the core tasks for the United Nations. Uzbekistan is a party to all the major international human rights instruments and it is steadily moving towards democracy and the formation of a civil society. One important step in that direction was the decision to abolish the death penalty in the country, as proposed by Uzbekistan’s President Islam Karimov. We are convinced that reform of the United Nations human rights system needs to be carried out step by step, consistently, and taking into account the concerns of all interested parties. Along with political rights, it is necessary to strengthen other human rights, 27 including socio-economic and environmental rights. We reiterate our position that it is unacceptable to politicize the issue of human rights or to be selective in reviewing human rights situations, even more so when United Nations bodies or mechanisms are involved. The establishment of a stable and long-lasting peace in Afghanistan is of strategic value for Uzbekistan. In that context, we welcome the parliamentary elections that were held in Afghanistan on 18 September. That event has become another important step towards restoring statehood to Afghanistan. Uzbekistan supports the efforts aimed at the prompt stabilization of the situation in Afghanistan. Considering Afghanistan to be a part of the Central Asian region, we encourage its active participation in regional integration processes. Uzbekistan is providing broad support to the Afghan people, as well as to relevant mechanisms of the United Nations and other international organizations, to aid the reconstruction process in that country. Five years after the Millennium Summit, Member States have adopted an historic decision to launch reform and renovate the mechanisms of the United Nations. We have a unique opportunity to carry out more far-reaching reforms to adapt the Organization to new realities. The aim of those reforms is to ensure the well-being and prosperity of all our peoples. Today the time has come to make decisions and take action. Any protraction of the process could seriously paralyse the system of international relations, allow current threats and challenges to become irreversible, and lead to a situation in which the international community is unable to take timely and appropriate measures. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate the readiness of Uzbekistan to cooperate actively with other States in creating more effective and just United Nations.The Government of the Republic of Yemen believes that the principles of the Charter of the United Nations form the cornerstone of its ability to tackle all problems at the national, regional and international levels. Ever since it was created, it has strived to create a climate of security and stability in the region by demarcating Yemen’s land and sea borders by peaceful means and by its devotion to the principle of well-balanced diplomacy and dialogue in the settlement of its disputes with others. It has fostered a partnership with neighbouring countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council and the San’a community for development, as well as its active contribution to the League of Arab States. Yemen has played a pioneering role with regard to political reform and the multiparty system and has enabled women to participate actively in the political, economic and social life of the country. Yemen is in the process of preparing for direct presidential elections, as well as elections for local administrative councils, in order to enhance democracy and promote people’s participation in the administration of the country and in achieving decentralization by next September. 24 Yemen would like to thank the international development agency for its support in this connection, as well as those States that have supported our democracy. We hope, however, that we will be receiving more financial and technical support for the high electoral commission to enable it to efficiently carry out its work. In light of terrorist acts in a number of countries of the region and throughout the world, the Republic of Yemen wishes to reaffirm its clear-cut position that there is a need to have joint responsibility in our struggle against terrorism. We will cooperate with all States and international organizations to deal with this danger and to develop ways for exchanging information, particularly with regard to the sources of financing for terrorism and the prosecution of the guilty parties. We firmly believe that we should convene an international conference on terrorism to arrive at a clear definition of the phenomenon, which would draw a distinction between terrorism and the right of peoples to self-determination and to resist foreign occupation of their territories. We also condemn all forms of terrorism against innocent and defenceless civilians. The expansion of poverty and diseases and the lack of education and health services for millions of people in Africa and Asia constitutes a time bomb threatening international peace and security. Establishing peace and stability and putting an end to extremism and terrorism are goals that cannot be achieved unless rich States revise their economic and political policies and provide support to achieve peace and development. That would enable millions of people to recover their dignity and humanity. In this context, the Republic of Yemen wishes to reaffirm its support for the proposal made by the King of Saudi Arabia, Guardian of the Two Holy Sites, for the creation of an international centre to fight terrorism. The Republic of Yemen is of the view that the withdrawal of Israeli occupation forces from the Gaza Strip is a first step on a long path. We reaffirm our belief that this withdrawal is but a part of the road map that should be considered as an integrated comprehensive plan that must be implemented as a whole and not dealt with selectively. In this context, the international community should not be deceived into believing that Israel has made enormous sacrifices by withdrawing from territories occupied by force, or have any sympathy for Israeli settlers who were evacuated, as these settlements were built on land the settlers did not own. Israel should end its occupation of the West Bank, remove all settlements there, and demolish the separation wall in accordance with the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice. The peace process is an indivisible whole. Real peace can only be achieved when all Arab rights have been recovered — first and foremost, the withdrawal of Israel from all occupied territories in Palestine, the Golan Heights and southern Lebanon to the borders of 4 June 1967, the creation of an independent Palestinian State on Palestinian national soil with its capital in Al-Quds Al-Sharif, and the just resolution of the refugee problem in accordance with General Assembly resolution 194 (III) of 1949. We ask the international Organization and the Quartet not to recognize nor accept any Israeli guarantees or promises that are designed to violate the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people and its sovereignty and not to reward Israeli occupation that seeks to impose faits accomplis solutions. We must carefully consider the situation in Iraq and see what we can do to assist the Iraqi people to achieve its aspirations. There is no doubt that respect for the unity, sovereignty and independence of Iraq, non-interference in its internal affairs, respect for the will of the people of Iraq and their choices in determining their future, are important tasks that this international Organization, as well as the international community, must help and support. The same is true with regard to the need for all sectors of Iraqi society to take part in the political process on the basis of conciliation and national harmony, without jeopardizing Iraq’s Arab identity, civilization and heritage. In this context, the people and Government of Yemen welcome the positive and important role taken by the United Nations in support of the constructive political process. It is important for this international Organization to play a central role in order to help complete this process and that of the reconstruction of Iraq. In the same vein, I reiterate the need to urgently implement Security Council resolution 1546 (2004) in order to allow Iraq to recover its full sovereignty and to put an end to the foreign military presence in that country. 25 The Republic of Yemen is following with satisfaction the positive events that are occurring in Sudan, which we see as the beginning of a new stage of national reconciliation, peace and stability in the entire country and as the end of the longest conflict in Africa. We appreciate the role played by neighbouring Arab and African States, as well as that by Secretary- General Kofi Annan, for their help in achieving agreement to ensure Sudan’s territorial integrity, unity, stability and security. We hope that the international Organization will redouble its efforts to make sure that international financial institutions, funds and States support the process of peace, development and reconstruction throughout Sudan, particularly in the regions that have been ravaged by war. We are pleased to see progress achieved in Somalia. However, we warn of the possibility of further setbacks in that country. We have no choice but to call upon the United Nations and the international community as a whole to provide urgently needed assistance to the transitional Government in Somalia to enable the Government to carry out its work, particularly with regard to ensuring reconstruction and the rule of law. The participation of United Nations peacekeeping forces has become more necessary now than ever before. Any reluctance in providing such assistance to Somalia will mean that terrorism and the forces of violence and extremism will prevail with most serious consequences to that country, to the Arab world, regionally and internationally. With regard to my country’s position on developing national capabilities in the area of the peaceful use of nuclear energy, we believe that all member States of the International Atomic Energy Agency have the right to develop their nuclear capabilities for peaceful purposes, a position that was adopted by the Islamic States at the meeting of foreign ministers of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, held in Sana’a last June. We further reaffirm the importance of making the Middle East a zone free of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction and that the prohibition of such weapons should apply to all States of the region, including Israel. In conclusion, allow me once more to congratulate you, Mr. President, and express my best wishes to the General Assembly, hoping that our common endeavour will be crowned with success so that we can achieve peace, security and prosperity for everyone.It gives me great pleasure to address this forum and to share with the General Assembly my Government’s views on issues of the highest relevance to our Organization. But first of all, let me express our solidarity and heartfelt condolences in connection with the loss of life and the damage caused by Hurricane Katrina in our host country — the United States of America. I wish to congratulate Mr. Jan Eliasson of Sweden on his election to the post of President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I am sure that under his able guidance we will make substantial progress in implementing the decisions adopted just a few days ago by the heads of State. At the same time, 7 let me congratulate Mr. Jean Ping of Gabon, President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session, for a job well done. I would like also to commend Secretary- General Kofi Annan for his skilful leadership of the Organization in what has turned out to be a very difficult year. The High-level Meeting and the outcome document reaffirmed our commitment to the core values and principles of the United Nations Charter and to effective multilateralism, and it identified areas for future action. The summit has also provided us with a unique opportunity to explore new ways to adapt the United Nations to new realities. The Organization was created 60 years ago. However, the vision of its founders — to bring about a more secure, democratic and developed world — needs to be pursued more vigorously today. As a wise man once said, we should be both speakers of words and doers of deeds. I am happy that we all agree that we need a reformed, more effective and more credible United Nations. The high-level segment made a fair assessment of the progress achieved in the implementation of the Millennium Declaration and of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), as well as of the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits. The assessment by the world leaders was both realistic and upbeat. They boldly assessed the status of current and longstanding problems — extreme poverty, hunger, disease, the HIV pandemic, child mortality, environmental degradation, lack of good governance, disregard for human rights and the rule of law — and showed strength and resolve in defining steps and actions to be taken or reinforced in order to meet our targets, and they were cautiously optimistic about the deadlines to be met. Today we live in a world in which our peoples, nations and Governments depend on each other. We must recognize that in this interdependent and globalized world, all threats are threats to us all. No one is immune to them, nor does any single State have a cure. But how should we proceed? I believe that many of us share the view that, in fact, we already have a multiplicity of documents and agreed positions, as well as many political commitments and adopted declarations. Much has been achieved by the United Nations, and we are proud of that. My own country has also benefited from United Nations efforts — the United Nations engagement in the first-ever preventive deployment mission. That was a good example of the effectiveness of joint efforts and cooperation. However, turning to the main questions, we have found that we are still lagging behind on some of the issues to which have so strongly committed ourselves. One of the avenues for moving forward involves implementation and visibility. These are not new words. Many promising United Nations ideas and projects have been sidelined due to inappropriate follow-up and inadequate implementation measures, or simply due to insufficient support and funding by the Member States. We should avoid such pitfalls. The sooner the effects of the implementation of our decisions become visible, the greater international public support will be, and the greater the chances of creating a better world for us and for generations to come. But we should not shy away from sharing that responsibility with all those who can assist us, with those who have the capacity to help promote and implement our goals. There are many positive examples in recent memory, beginning with the greater involvement of regional organizations, the civil sector, non-governmental organizations, the private sector, and so on. Let us make greater use of them. We can only benefit. On this occasion, I will not dwell in detail on the processes of United Nations reform and the strengthening of the Organization. President Crvenkovski elaborated Macedonia’s position on those issues here last week. Macedonia also aligns itself with the European Union statement. Nevertheless, allow me to say a few words on some current United Nations reform issues of particular interest to us. Macedonia supports the view that human rights, the rule of law and democracy should be given a prominent place in the United Nations reform proposals. Freedom from fear could be said to sum up the whole philosophy of human rights, as former Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld put it. It has long been a strong position of my country that respect for those principles, coupled with development, is the best conflict-prevention measure and a vital precondition for peace and prosperity. For that reason, we see great merit in establishing a 8 peacebuilding commission. I trust that a balanced gender representation on the commission will only lead to its better functioning and give added value to peacebuilding. Furthermore, the establishment of the human rights council must be seen as a powerful tool to regain the values and principles originally envisaged by the creation of the United Nations. We are very satisfied that the concept of “responsibility to protect” has found its well-deserved place for the first time in a United Nations document and welcome its endorsement. The democracy fund is a noble idea which deserves our full creative engagement. Terrorism has turned into the plague of modern times. Since the last session of the General Assembly, many atrocious terrorist attacks have taken place throughout the world. Our firm commitment to fighting terrorism should engender more joint activities and actions. Our struggle must be based on full respect for human rights because it is human rights that terrorists are afraid of and seek to undermine. We need further consolidation of the global anti-terrorist coalition and strengthened cooperation with regional organizations. The United Nations is at the core of activities in the area of counter-terrorism. The Republic of Macedonia supports the elaboration of the United Nations comprehensive counter-terrorism strategy, as outlined by the Secretary-General in Madrid. I would like to appeal to the Member States to agree on the comprehensive convention on international terrorism. This year, we took a significant step by adopting the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, which we signed on 16 September. The victims of recent acts of terrorism painfully remind us to move forward. From the very beginning, the Republic of Macedonia has been a part of the international anti- terrorist coalitions in Iraq and Afghanistan. Peace and democracy-building in those two countries remain among the key challenges to the international community and to the Iraqis and Afghans themselves. I would like once again to reiterate our support for their efforts to rebuild their countries and to create better lives for their people. Today, my country, Macedonia, is a functional, multi-ethnic democracy. Over the past three years, we have launched and carried out a large number of reform projects. Our hard work has brought us closer to the Euro-Atlantic structures. We have developed genuine partnerships with the Union and the alliance. We expect the European Commission to give a positive evaluation of our achievements and Macedonia to be granted the status of candidate at the December 2005 summit. I firmly believe that the time has come for our European perspective to turn into a European reality. As for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, we expect the invitation to join at the next enlargement summit. The Government has recently announced its economic programme, primarily aimed at increasing economic growth and reducing unemployment. At the same time, it has intensified the development of a climate favourable to foreign investment and safe business conduct. As a critical complement to economic reforms, Macedonia is also focused on reform of the judiciary and the fight against organized crime and corruption. We have set a goal to do better. The reforms are not easy, but we are firm in our resolve to implement them. Regional cooperation has become a major characteristic of the foreign policies of all countries in South-East Europe. We have been patiently building a new spirit of cooperation, while at the same time learning the true meaning of developing relations based on mutual trust and solidarity. That includes our bilateral relations, as well as a large number of regional initiatives. Recognizing that reality and the need to cooperate and to build good-neighbourly relations and mutual confidence was not an easy undertaking, but it is the only way ahead. We take pride in seeing the region move forward. The Republic of Macedonia will continue even more vigorously to pursue such policy. There is no alternative to dialogue and all outstanding regional issues should be resolved in that manner. In closing, I am confident that our deliberations will contribute to better and faster follow-up of the commitments agreed at the High-level Plenary Meeting. I believe that we can soon come up with implementation mechanisms that will give life to what was conceived by our leaders. There were many debates, some of them very contradictory, showing how different we are. But diversity should not prevent us from having a common vision and goals for a better future. That is why we are here at the United Nations.I take this opportunity to congratulate President Eliasson on his election to lead our deliberations during this very important session of the General Assembly. I would also like to pay tribute to our outgoing President of the fifty-ninth session, His Excellency Mr. Jean 21 Ping, and our Secretary-General for their tireless efforts and very considerable contributions to the successful outcome of the High-level Plenary Meeting that concluded just a week ago. This year, at this historic session, we commemorate a milestone in the rich history of the Organization as we celebrate its sixtieth anniversary. For us in Micronesia, the occasion also marks the fifteenth anniversary of our joining the United Nations. We are proud and motivated to be part of this great Organization. Our celebrations, however, should have a noble purpose beyond honouring the past and the present. This occasion should give focus to the long road ahead of us. Inspired by the accomplishments of the past 60 years, we must forge ahead with strong determination, confidence and vigour to meet the challenges that the future holds for the Organization. The Federated States of Micronesia does not pretend to believe that the problems that we are called upon to tackle are easy; they are not. But while we have differences of opinion as to how they may be effectively addressed, my delegation is encouraged by the broad consensus that was reached during the high- level panel meetings last week that the reform of the United Nations and the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) must be addressed one way or another and sooner rather than later. No doubt the consensus was forged in the conviction that the United Nations, with all its shortcomings, still represents the best hope for humankind to solve its problems at the multilateral level. If that is the case, as my country firmly believes it is, the Organization must be reformed to reflect present day realities and to effectively and efficiently achieve its enduring objectives as enshrined in the Charter. For the sake of our Organization’s credibility, for its long-term sustainability, and for the millions of people around the globe that pin their hopes on the United Nations, the Organization must be reformed. My delegation fully supports the call that has been made within the General Assembly Hall for its comprehensive reform. Consequently, let us give full consideration to the reform of the Security Council. The challenges of the twenty-first century demand that we should do so. With the indulgence of members, I do not wish to go into details here, as the position of my Government on the issue has already been made known on several occasions. I would only reiterate our call for the inclusion of Japan and Germany, among the developed countries, as permanent members of the Council, because we believe they will contribute greatly to the maintenance of peace and security. For those aforementioned reasons, we also support the inclusion of India, a developing country, as a permanent member of the Security Council. Moreover, we will support the inclusion of other developing countries from other regions, if that reflects the choice of those regions. We urge Member States to take bold and decisive action on this issue. The time has come for the “enemy State” clauses in the United Nations Charter to be removed. They have long become obsolete. The outcome document rightfully reflects that fact. The sixtieth General Assembly could not have been more timely. It can take up the noble but incomplete task of reinforcing and facilitating the full implementation of the outcome of last week’s summit. We have little choice but to complete that which was left unfinished. Consistent with the broader agenda of the debates, we wish to reiterate the great importance that we attach to the second phase of the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) to be held in Tunisia in November. For my country, whose population is dispersed on many islands scattered over a vast area of the Pacific, access to affordable and reliable information and communication technologies (ICTs) is critical to the socio-economic advancement of its people. But harnessing the power of ICTs does not benefit only a few. In the end, it is a win-win proposition for us all — for developing and developed countries alike. The responsible use and effective dissemination of meaningful information is the key to emancipation from human ignorance and is therefore essential to socio-economic progress. It follows that the means of collecting, evaluating, and transmitting information must be shared and placed at the service of humankind. It is for that reason that my country continues to add its voice to those of other countries in urging universal cooperation in the WSIS process. It is a step forward along the road to achieving the MDGs. Without it, the MDGs will mean little. It is for the same reason that my Government supports the Community of Democracies and participates in its activities. In our view, 22 democratization of the institutions of governance and transparency in public policymaking — with due regard to local conditions — are inseparable from economic progress and collective security. After all, the work of the Community does not contradict but further reinforces the MDGs and, in a larger sense, the time-honoured objectives incorporated in the Charter of the United Nations. It does not take a great deal of wisdom to realize that, as a small island developing State, my country is vulnerable to the extremely adverse impact of global climate change. For the 15 years we have been a Member of the United Nations, we have been vocal here and elsewhere on the issue of climate change and its adverse impact on small island developing States. For us, it is an issue of security and survival. I reiterate our appeal to those countries that have not yet ratified the Kyoto Protocol to do so immediately and without further delay. A week ago during the High-level Plenary Meeting, President Joseph Urusemal, like other Micronesian Presidents before him, called attention to the daunting challenges facing our country and other small island developing States in pursuing sustainable development and achieving the MDGs. I reaffirm their calls here once again, and stress the urgent need for the international community to fully and effectively implement the Mauritius Strategy for the further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. The Strategy provides a way forward for these countries and plays a crucial role in our ability to achieve sustainable development and meet the MDGs. As if the plethora of challenges I have spoken of are not daunting enough for my country, the escalating cost of fuel and its negative impact on our efforts to meet development goals and pursue sustainable development is a major cause of concern. That crisis brings to the fore the need identified by small island developing States for accelerated research and development and a sharing of technologies in the areas of renewable and alternative sources of energy. We appeal to the international community to assist us in those areas. I take this opportunity today to reiterate the call made by my President during the High-level Plenary Meeting to further strengthen cooperation and linkages between the United Nations and countries of the Pacific, like mine. The need for the physical presence of the United Nations system and its sustained engagement in our development process is now more compelling than ever. We cannot accept the notion that our country is undeserving of the substantive presence of the United Nations. Over the past few months we have seen encouraging signs in the Middle East. The historic disengagement of Israel from the Gaza Strip and parts of the West Bank is a step in the right direction and should be commended. My Government appreciates the political obstacles faced by the two parties and encourages them to stay the course towards a peaceful settlement of what has been a long, complex and unpleasant experience. We call upon both parties to spare no effort to actively pursue peaceful negotiations. They should not be satisfied until the day comes when Israeli and Palestinian children can play side by side and live in peace, without fear. As a young country that graduated from the trusteeship regime of this Organization, my country places high hopes in the United Nations. At 60, the United Nations should not to be contemplating retirement. Instead, the time has come for this great Organization to strengthen and rededicate itself in order to effectively and efficiently meet the challenges of the new millennium.Seven days ago, from this rostrum, I warned that the situation in Kosovo and Metohija - a province of Serbia administered by the United Nations since 10 June 1999 - poses a serious threat to the 20 stability of the Balkans. Serbia and Montenegro supports the conclusion of the International Contact Group that there will be no return to the situation before 10 June 1999. I would like to recall that, before 1999, the regime in Serbia insisted on the limited autonomy of Kosovo, while the Albanian political leaders insisted on its independence. Those two opposing positions led to an armed conflict, and later to NATO air strikes against Serbia and Montenegro. That conflict ended following the adoption of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999), which called for a protectorate in Kosovo but did not call into question the territorial integrity of Serbia and Montenegro. The Contact Group's conclusion that there will be no return to the situation before June 1999 has to apply equally to both sides - Serbian and Albanian. Consequently, there can be neither limited autonomy nor independence for Kosovo. By proposing a status that was greater than autonomy but less than independence for Kosovo, the democratic Government in Belgrade demonstrated its full commitment to reaching a compromise solution. Unfortunately, the Kosovo Albanians, only interested in independence, have not budged an inch from their 1999 position. Unfortunately, I have to note that the international community is partly to blame for the tragic position the Serbian and other non-Albanian minorities in Kosovo find themselves in, as well as for the political extremism of the Albanian majority and the many crimes that have been committed. The standards set for Kosovo are not even close to being fulfilled. Are we therefore going to abandon the ìStandards before Statusî policy? From 10 June 1999 to the present, approximately 200,000 Serbs and Montenegrins, as well as Turks, Croats, Roma, Jews and other non-Albanians, have been expelled from Kosovo. Close to 80 per cent of the territory is now inhabited only by Albanians. Several hundred Serbs have been killed, including many children. Approximately 40,000 Serbian homes have been demolished or set on fire, as well as 150 churches and monasteries that were centuries old. The remaining Serbs and other non-Albanians live in so-called enclaves, without guarantees for their personal safety and their freedom of movement. No one in present-day Europe is so tragically unprotected. In spite the foregoing, we hope that the United Nations military and police forces will remain in Kosovo. Without their presence, the tragedy of Serbs and other minorities would be complete. Troops from the United States, Italy, France and other countries should be given credit for keeping the Serbian Christian monasteries designated or nominated as international world heritage sites from being blown up or set on fire. We would like to thank the United Nations and ask the United Nations forces to stay in Kosovo as long as necessary. For months now, Albanian extremists have been openly threatening to launch a pogrom against the remaining Serbs, Montenegrins and other non-Albanians - and even against United Nations forces - unless Kosovo's independence is proclaimed. Recent killings of young Serbs announced the beginning of that scenario. Ultimatums and threats to commit crimes and terrorism cannot be accepted anywhere in the world, including in Kosovo. I hope that that will finally and decisively be made clear to the Albanian majority in the province. Serbia and Montenegro demands a European level of human rights protection for national communities in Kosovo, protection of churches and monasteries and recognition of the European status of the existing State borders with the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Albania. No more and no less is acceptable, either under the Charter of the United Nations or under Security Council resolution 1244 (1999). Our rights do not threaten any right of the Albanian majority. An independent State of Kosovo is not a guaranteed right, but an extreme demand. We are truly and fully committed to a compromise, but compromise does not mean that one side gets everything while the other side gets nothing. We are for reconciliation and a common European future, in which Serbs, Montenegrins and Albanians will be good neighbours and best friends for each other. A stable and European Kosovo means a stable Western Balkans region, and vice versa. The choice is obvious.I wish to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election. I am confident that you will carry forward the able legacy left by your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping. Our warm tribute is also due to the Secretary-General as he strives to reinvigorate our Organization. We meet in the wake of the High-level Plenary Meeting, where bold decisions were made to promote implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. Our problems transcend national boundaries. Solutions need a global consensus. All of us must emphatically reaffirm the central role of the United Nations in the cooperative management of the worldís problems. We are constitutionally committed to uphold the Charter and its legitimacy based on the rule of law. In a globalizing world, no nation is an island. None can prosper alone. The United Nations remains the only bastion of peace, justice and development in the world. Reform of the United Nations is vital. We must focus on its effectiveness and ability to deliver quickly. Its agenda and mandate must be meaningful. Its administration must be reformed. Its budget must be purged of waste. Its major organs need to be reconstituted and revitalized to serve purposeful priorities. Expansion of its major organs is necessary but must be tailored to the efficacy of the Organization. The dynamics of todayís world have been created by immense forces of change. Among them are advances in science and technology and widespread awareness of individual rights. The resulting globalization and progression of humanitarian law have given rise to a world where the very concept of sovereignty is being challenged, where the dimensions of security are in a flux, where the nature of conflict has seen a seismic shift and where social exclusion has added complex uncertainty. The need for constructive engagement, dialogue, tolerance and understanding is imperative. Development and the rule of law must take centre stage. New challenges confront us today. While terrorists sow panic and xenophobia in our societies, deprivation, hunger, disease and environmental degradation continue to fuel insecurity and destabilization. The recent bombings in London and Egypt shocked us all. They have hardened our resolve to face this menace unitedly. Bangladesh condemns terrorism in all its forms. We have acceded to all anti- terrorism conventions of the United Nations and relevant regional organizations. We support the early conclusion of a comprehensive United Nations convention on terrorism. I would like to underscore our conviction that terrorists do not belong to any one country or religion. In Bangladesh, sustained efforts are being made to pursue the twin objectives of responsibility at home and a contribution abroad. Despite enormous constraints, we have made good progress to advance democracy, development and human rights. We recognize that those goals are linked with one another. We have moved slowly but surely to shore up a democratic ethos. The late President Ziaur Rahman led Bangladesh out of the morass of a failed democracy in 1975. He introduced a multi-party system, freed the press and opened up the economy. In 1990, a popular uprising against an entrenched military dictatorship brought the first real push towards sustained democracy. We have not looked back. Three consecutive free and fair elections have been held under a neutral caretaker Government. That unique constitutional innovation has ensured the peaceful transfer of power on an alternating basis. Democracy has become firmly rooted in Bangladesh. A key element of the last election, in 2001, was the participation of more than 70 per cent of the electorate. Women voters outnumbered men. They voted not for symbols but for issues. 32 A quiet revolution is under way in Bangladesh in the field of development. The progress is visible on six key fronts: stable growth of the gross domestic product (GDP) at a rate of 5 per cent or more for over two decades; higher per capita income; food security; increased resilience in the face of natural disasters; improvement of the human development index; and better social and health outcomes. Our performance in those areas compares favourably with the results in our own region and elsewhere. A set of pragmatic, targeted policy approaches have made that progress possible. We have completed a full-fledged poverty reduction strategy paper through an extended consultative process. It sets out a road map to meet country-specific MDGs. The fundamental principle of the poverty reduction strategy paper is to promote employment- generating economic growth and to invest significantly in priority sectors such as education, health and social safety-net programmes. It is a matter of some satisfaction that Bangladesh has achieved two of the MDGs: the elimination of gender disparity in primary and secondary schools and access to safe drinking water. We are close to achieving two more goals: the reduction of extreme poverty and under-five child mortality rates. Bangladesh is committed to upholding the dignity of individuals and promoting human rights. Bangladesh is a party to all United Nations human rights conventions. We are moving steadily to strengthen good governance through strong democratic institutions, establish the rule of law and eliminate intolerance in our society. Deeply entrenched pockets of poverty continue to exist around the world. The most vulnerable are the least developed countries. Their products should be granted immediate duty-free and quota-free access globally. As reaffirmed at Monterrey, the specific allocation of 0.15 to 0.2 per cent of the GDP of developed countries must be earmarked for official development assistance to least developed countries. Financing for development is a critical issue. Innovative initiatives in that regard, which have been the subject of discussion, need to be pursued in earnest. The devastation caused by natural disasters affects all countries, rich and poor alike. How can we meet the challenge of effective relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction, as well as pre-disaster warning and preparations? That continues to the responsibility of the United Nations. We are profoundly shocked at the huge toll of damage caused by Hurricane Katrina on the Gulf coast of the United States. Natural disasters do not distinguish between rich and poor countries, and the human misery and suffering caused are the same. We, in Bangladesh, have weathered many severe floods and cyclones, and the toll in terms of life and property has been huge. We can therefore feel the torment that the affected people have undergone, and we offer our heartfelt sympathies. We know that the American people can overcome the disaster and move on with their lives. All countries, including Bangladesh, must seek ways and means to contribute effectively to the United Nations, whether through peacemaking, peacekeeping or peacebuilding. Active participation, innovative ideas and best practices in shoring up development together can enhance our combined capacity to address the worldís problems, especially those that no one country can tackle alone. We, in Bangladesh, are particularly proud of our contribution to peacekeeping on many simultaneous fronts across the globe. In all, we have contributed more than 39,000 troops to 24 missions and are currently among the largest contributors. Sixty- seven of our blue-helmeted soldiers have died in that cause. Our commitment to peacekeeping remains unflinching. We also fully support the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission. A priority concern for us is our close identity with Africa. Through our peacekeeping efforts, we have established special bonds of friendship. The New Partnership for Africaís Development is particularly encouraging. We believe that South-South cooperation has specific relevance in that context. Bangladesh reaffirms its support for the early establishment of a sovereign independent State in Palestine, in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions. The road map for peace in the Middle East needs to be implemented fully and urgently. With respect to Iraq, we believe that the present situation should be resolved by preserving the interests of the Iraqi people, in particular their territorial integrity, and by ensuring the long-term peace, security and stability of the region. Bangladeshís constitutional commitment to general and complete disarmament is the reason for our progressive support of international and regional 33 treaties and agreements covering all the Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission (ABCC) weapons. We are a party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. We give precedence to human over weapons security. Each year we come to the Assembly to reaffirm our faith in the United Nations. This sixtieth anniversary year is of profound significance. We must provide a renewed mandate to the United Nations to meet the challenges of the new millennium ó to rid the world of poverty and injustice, to usher in the rule of law, to promote the cause of development, to eradicate terrorism and, above all, to promote peace and security. We can prevail only if we act responsibly and together. Support for the United Nations and its legitimacy remains a paramount priority.I should like first of all to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside over the General Assembly at this important session, at which we pledge our full cooperation. I also wish to thank your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for having conducted the proceedings of the fifty-ninth session so efficiently and for having spearheaded the vital negotiations on the outcome document adopted by the summit. I must also express my gratitude to the Secretary-General for his leadership, especially his efforts to reform the United Nations so as to make it more responsive to the dynamics and demands of the current world. The founding fathers of the United Nations dreamed of an organization that would be able, in the words of the Charter, to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom. It was in pursuit of that dream that the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session adopted the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). That was a milestone in the realization of one of the purposes and principles of the Charter — to achieve international cooperation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character, to promote and encourage respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all and to be the centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in attaining those common ends. A great deal has been done since the Millennium Summit in 2000, at both national and international levels, to attain the objectives that we set ourselves in the MDGs. Asia and Latin America have progressed well, while Oceania and Africa have not been quite as successful. On the whole, Africa’s performance has shown mixed results. Some regions, especially in North Africa, have registered positive achievements, while others have faired negatively. In a globalized world, the future and welfare of all are interlinked. Poverty in one part of the world threatens peace and security globally. Equally, an epidemic in a remote village in Africa threatens the health of the prosperous individual in New York. In essence, we all share a common fate. The international community has therefore a self-interested obligation to help Africa emerge from its current predicament. Let the wealth of some enhance the welfare of all. Uganda hopes that the World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1) marks a real commitment to 23 improving the welfare of the world’s poor and to making the United Nations the vanguard for the aspirations of all. We hope that it will not suffer the fate of the commitments that preceded it. Peace and security is a prerequisite for development. One of the reasons why Africa has failed to register substantial achievements with regard to the MDGs is lack of stability, peace and security. Conflicts, wars and civil strife afflicting the continent have acted as disincentives to development. The 1885 Berlin Conference split Africa up, without due regard to the long-term interests of the African peoples. The Great Lakes region found itself at the confluence of all the colonial Powers. That confluence created a political and social situation that has, over the years, proved difficult to manage. It is a complex situation, with both positive and negative tendencies. The cold war further exacerbated the situation as the East battled the West for influence. Indeed, former Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld lost his life in the context of that explosive political mix. As Africa struggles to set its house in order, Uganda has identified four main causes of conflict on the continent which negative forces have exploited for their own ends. They include parasitic vested interests; superficiality and obscurantism in identifying and dealing with those parasitic interests and their effects on a particular country or group of countries; weak and disoriented local leadership; and, finally, the pre-industrial characteristics of Africa. Those are the core causes of conflict, although there are others. Paying clear and careful attention to them could provide a vital springboard from which long-term solutions could be found. The conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Great Lakes region in general is caused by a combination of those factors. Those with the most to lose in the Democratic Republic of the Congo are marginalized, while real issues of statecraft have been pushed to the periphery. No attention is being given to creating institutions and infrastructure that can sustain the State. The integration of armed factions into one single national armed force is half-hearted. How can a State exist without the minimum pillars of support, such as an army capable of defending its territorial integrity? The view that justice should precede integration is wrong, in our opinion. While justice is important, it is Uganda’s belief that it should not take precedence over the integration of armed groups. We should integrate all factions, and then seek to punish those that are guilty of any offences later. Uganda advocates the concept of provisional immunity or immunité provisoire, as it is referred to in Burundi. On the other hand, equal attention needs to be given to issues of development, rehabilitation and the recovery of the economy. A growing economy is necessary for sustainable peace. What we are witnessing today is a rush to elections and political agendas without due regard being given to the institutions and infrastructure necessary for the long-term sustainability of peace. We have travelled this road before, with disastrous consequences. Let the immediate past of the continent be a guiding lesson for all of us. The Lusaka peace accord provided a strong mechanism enabling the region and the Democratic Republic of the Congo to play complementary roles in the peace process. Unfortunately, it has been abandoned. The central problem of negative forces, which the agreement recognized, has been put on the back burner. For over five years, the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) has made no significant effort to ensure the demobilization and disarmament of those groups, thus leaving in place the seeds of future conflict. We are, however, hopeful that our efforts, both at the bilateral level and in the Tripartite Commission, which is composed of Uganda, Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, with the participation of Burundi, will iron out those problems and allow our region to attain peace and stability. For some time now, the situation in Burundi has been a real concern to the Great Lakes region and to the international community at large. The destruction and loss of life that took place spurred the regional States, together with South Africa, to undertake and spearhead a peace initiative. It was a long and arduous process. With the support of the United Nations and the international community, signs of success are today evident. In the past few months, the people of Burundi elected their leaders in local, parliamentary and, finally, presidential elections. They look to the future with hope. Uganda welcomes His Excellency Mr. Pierre Nkurunziza, the new President of Burundi, 24 and we look forward to working with him to consolidate peace in the region. The international community and the United Nations have an obligation to make peace sustainable. Reconstruction, rehabilitation and development will be necessary. We hope that due attention is given to institutional capacity-building so that Burundi does not relapse into the fratricidal anarchy that had been its bane over the past decade. After two decades of conflict in southern Sudan, the people of the Sudan, led by the Government and the Sudanese People’s Liberation Movement and Army (SPLM/A), signed the Comprehensive Peace Agreement earlier this year. The guns are silent, and the long-tortured people of southern Sudan are now enjoying some peace. It is unfortunate that the late John Garang passed away at a time when implementation of the Agreement was in its early stages. We are confident that given the commitment of both the Government of the Sudan and SPLM the peace agreement will hold and will be comprehensively implemented. We are also confident that the Sudan is headed for a peaceful future. We hope that other conflicts, such as that in Darfur, will be peacefully resolved using the Comprehensive Peace Agreement as an inspiration and a model. The signature and implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement in the Sudan has led to increased optimism about peace in northern Uganda. The Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA), a terrorist group that has long maimed, kidnapped and terrorized the civilian population of northern Uganda, for a long time had sanctuary in southern Sudan, from where it launched its terrorist activities. With the cooperation of the Sudanese Government, including SPLA/SPLM in the south, these terrorists are being flushed out from southern Sudan. Uganda’s strategy of peace negotiations combined with maximum military pressure has significantly reduced the LRA’s capacity to commit evil. However, as peace returns to the region, we need international cooperation and assistance to supplement the Government of Uganda’s post-conflict humanitarian, rehabilitation and development programme, which is already under way in northern Uganda. Somalia has been in a state of anarchy for more than a decade and a half. Peace efforts by the international community and the United Nations have been anything but timid. A sense of frustration on the part of the United Nations has led to resignation and despair, thus condemning the Somali people to a state of bondage and being held hostage by the warlords. It is in this void that the regional States, under the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), took on the mantle of negotiating peace and re-establishing order. Anarchy is contagious. We cannot feel safe in a situation pregnant with arms trafficking, religious extremism, the dumping of radioactive waste and the potential for breeding terrorists in the region. These are realistic threats, and IGAD cannot ignore them. The international community — and, most especially, the members of the Security Council — should not be deluded by geographical distance. A potential threat to international peace truly exists in Somalia. It is in view of these current and latent threats that the members of IGAD took upon themselves to negotiate with Somalia for peace. Over a period of two years, we went through a very laborious and sometimes frustrating negotiating process until agreement was reached on formation of a Government of national unity last year. At the end of the process, we expected the Security Council to join us in the pursuit of peace. We expected that all efforts would be geared towards creating the necessary legal and political atmosphere to facilitate the realization of peace for the long-suffering people of Somalia. We were, however, deeply disappointed when the Council, in its wisdom, acted otherwise, leaving the region and, most important, the Somali people to their fate. The decision to uphold the arms embargo and to reject even its partial lifting denied the region a chance to implement the peace process to its logical end. We hope that it is not too late for the Council to evaluate and review its position. Let me briefly make some comments on the proposed reform of the United Nations. The institution we have today was conceived and created 60 years ago. The sense of triumphalism of the victors in the Second World War, the anguish of the vanquished and the assumed indifference of the colonial peoples, especially in Africa, formed the background to the run- up to the creation of the United Nations. The institution that emerged reflected those realities. Nowhere within the United Nations, was this more apparent than in the Security Council. The victors reserved for themselves the right to determine the 25 destiny of others. This was done without due regard for the interests of those that the decisions were to affect most. Today, the situation has dramatically changed. Colonial peoples have gained independence, and the international power structure has changed. Decisions of the Security Council need wider support diplomatically, financially and militarily in order to be implemented. It has, therefore, become an imperative to reform the Security Council and make it more representative and reflective of the realities of today’s world. In Africa, where most Security Council mandated operations take place, we believe that it is time for the continent, composed of 53 States, to have a real say in how those operations are formulated and implemented. Today, Africa is the only continent that has no representation at the real decision-making level of the Council. It is for these reasons that we demand that the continent be given two permanent seats with veto and two additional non-permanent seats. A Council thus composed will be more democratic and credible and will have its decisions more widely accepted. While the dream of the founding fathers of the United Nations was to save succeeding generations form the scourge of war, conflicts remain a reality in today’s world. For 60 years, the United Nations has failed to live up to this expectation. Uganda, therefore, welcomes the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission and a Peacebuilding Support Office. We hope that the 31 December 2005 deadline will be met in order to enable those vital bodies help the United Nations effectively address conflict and make peace more sustainable. In the same vain, we support the establishment of the Democracy Fund, which should be used to support countries’ home-grown institutions and not as a mechanism to import foreign brands of democracy. My delegation is cognizant of the primary responsibility of States to protect their own people. In the event of failure, the international community has a responsibility to protect in order to prevent genocide and ethnic cleansing. However, this responsibility should be clearly defined and its exercise should have the prior authorization of the Security Council. We believe that the commitment of our leaders to support a stronger relationship between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations will help expand the capacity of the international community to handle the old and new challenges facing the world. Indeed, regional organizations that have a capacity for prevention of armed conflict or peacekeeping should use it to enhance the United Nations in this field. The existing Commission on Human Rights has been deficient in its performance over the years. We believe that it is time to create an independent institution with an effective and clear mandate to handle human rights. The proposal to create a Human Rights Council is timely. We hope that all the necessary details will be agreed upon so that this Council can be launched. In conclusion, allow me to restate Uganda’s commitment to the ideals and principles of the United Nations. The Organization has served us relatively well over the years. It is capable of serving us even better and achieving the dreams and ideals emanated by the framers of the Charter 60 years ago. This can happen only if we take the bold step of adopting the far- reaching, innovative reforms proposed by the Secretary-General and if we fully implement the outcome document.Mr. President, please allow me, on behalf of the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica, to extend our congratulations to you on your assumption of the presidency at the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. My delegation is confident that, with your experience and diplomatic skills, you will preside over the Assembly with the effectiveness and the dedication required to take us through the agenda of the sixtieth session. We extend to your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping of Gabon, our sincere appreciation for his stewardship of the fifty-ninth session and for his tireless efforts to guide the preparation of the outcome document. Our warm tribute is also due to the Secretary-General for his unqualified dedication to this institution. Allow me at the outset to convey our deepest sympathies and condolences to the Government and the people of the United States of America in the wake of the deaths and widespread destruction caused by Hurricane Katrina. We remain concerned about the potential devastation that Hurricane Rita is likely to unleash in coming days. One week ago, world leaders gathered here at the historic High-level Plenary Meeting and demonstrated their collective political will to overcome the many challenges facing the world. They charted a clear direction for a future of peace and prosperity for all humankind. They reaffirmed their commitment to achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), underscored the continuing relevance of the United Nations and its indispensable role in the collective management of the many problems faced by the global community, and provided clear recommendations for the reform of the Organization. The outcome document, while falling short of our expectations, presents a platform for multilateral solutions to the broad range of global problems related to development, peace and security, human rights, the rule of law and the reinvigoration of the United Nations. The Commonwealth of Dominica is committed to the Millennium Development Goals and embraces the renewed pledge to save humanity from the scourge of war, disease, famine and poverty. We will work with all Member States to ensure a future based on hope and prosperity instead of one of despair for the poor and the marginalized of this world. We now have before us the monumental task of ensuring implementation and tangible outcomes. Fulfilling that task, which our esteemed leaders have accorded to us, requires the determined will of all Member States. It will also require a commitment to the collective will and a retreat from preoccupation with self-interest and narrow national agendas. If nothing else, the sixtieth session should go down in history as the session at which we, the Member States, renewed our commitment to the ideal that inspired the 31 visionary founders: building a peaceful and prosperous world in which all peoples live together in harmony, free from want and fear. Dominica, a small island developing State, welcomes the particular attention given in the outcome document to the special needs and vulnerabilities of small island developing States. It is a source of great encouragement to us that the Member States of the United Nations have demonstrated an appreciation of the challenges that confront all small island developing States. The Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action is a realistic and attainable blueprint that underscores the pivotal areas for interventions to build the capacity of small island developing States to confront their various sustainable development challenges. We appreciate the support of our friends and development partners and appeal for their continuing commitment to the proper and effective implementation of the Mauritius Strategy. Progress in the development arena will require strong political will for the implementation of the commitments we have undertaken and which we reaffirmed together in the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting. These concern primarily the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals and the revitalization of the international partnership for development, with the attendant mobilization of financial resources, as well as the fulfilment of the commitment made by many developed countries to reach the target of 0.7 per cent of their gross national product for official development assistance by 2015. Dominica takes this opportunity to express its appreciation to those countries that affirmed their intention to fulfil their obligations in that regard. My delegation feels strongly that the consensus we reached in the High-level Plenary Meeting represents a good foundation for a greater consensus towards achieving the development priorities of the developing countries. The United Nations must play a pivotal role in ensuring that the issues of trade, debt relief, investment and industrial modernization receive the highest priority if the global objective is to raise the standard of living of the people of the developing countries. We congratulate the Group of Eight for the commitment adopted at the Gleneagles Summit, giving much-needed debt relief to 18 heavily indebted poor countries. However, a similar initiative is now required for small island developing States and middle income developing countries that are being strangled by heavy debt burdens and the simultaneous erosion of their preferential trading arrangements. South-South cooperation has been growing over the last two decades, and through that mechanism many avenues have opened for enhanced trade relations and cooperation in the transfer of know-how and technology. Dominica welcomes the establishment of the South Fund for Development and Humanitarian Assistance and the generous initial pledges of the Governments of Qatar, India and China to this Fund. Equally deserving of commendation is Venezuela’s initiative in the Caribbean, called Petrocaribe, which will help Caribbean countries to respond to the challenges posed by the high price of oil. Aid without trade cannot be a viable proposition for small island States like Dominica. We are fully cognizant that only trade can be the engine of growth and development. Dominica and other banana- producing States in the Caribbean have had difficulties responding to the stance of multinational corporations from the United States and allied Latin American countries that have challenged the preferential access for our bananas in the European Union. We hope that reason will prevail, as we count on a fair resolution of the present banana trade impasse in Europe. Only a positive outcome will avert a future of persistent poverty for banana farmers and workers in the Caribbean. Let me reiterate that small, vulnerable island States like Dominica need time to adjust to the transition to a fully liberalized global trading regime. Dominica has made admirable progress towards realization of the MDGs, but such gains could simply vanish like a thief in the night if we lose the preferential access to the European market for our bananas in 2006. For this reason we appeal to the international community to demonstrate the necessary political will to ensure that the Doha Development Round takes these concerns into account in the quest for a fair and equitable trading system for the benefit of all our people. The frequency of devastating storms in Asia, the Caribbean and the southern United States and long periods of drought in Africa require a more coordinated 32 and organized international response. The United Nations needs to significantly enhance its capacity to respond in a timely manner to disasters in the more vulnerable developing countries. Last year many Caribbean countries were battered by hurricanes, and the Eastern Caribbean nation of Grenada was in the unfortunate situation of facing the onslaught of two major hurricanes in one calendar year. Grenada still needs additional assistance from the international community, and we appeal to all Member States to lend such assistance. Dominica has had its share of hurricane devastation. Late last year we experienced devastation from a series of earthquakes which inflicted significant damage on our fragile infrastructure. We continue to be vigilant and have put in place a national disaster strategy to mitigate the adverse effects of such disasters on our population. My delegation once again reiterates the appeal made last year in this Hall by Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit for the creation of a global insurance fund to assist countries devastated by natural disasters. We call on the international community to fully implement the Hyogo Framework for Action 2005-2015, adopted at this year’s World Conference on Disaster Reduction. Climate change is wreaking havoc on small island developing States. It is time for all Member States to accept that climate change and global warming are real and that they are caused by human activity. All Member States must implement the provisions of the Kyoto Protocol. My delegation is concerned about the continuing instability in Haiti. We support the role of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti, but we appreciate that its limited size and resources are inadequate to respond to the complicated political situation in which Haiti finds itself. Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM) States have already committed technical assistance for the elections and are cognizant that elections alone will not bring stability to Haiti. Stability will require the accelerated disbursement of pledged financial resources, more rapid implementation of social and economic project activities, and peacebuilding initiatives. Terrorism remains a great threat to peace and security at the national, regional and international levels. Dominica condemns all acts, methods and practices of terrorism. The recent attacks in London and in Egypt underscore the danger of terrorism, which transcends national boundaries and does not distinguish between peoples, cultures or religions. Dominica is making a great effort to comply with the obligations of the various counter-terrorism conventions and pledges its support for the conclusion of the comprehensive convention on international terrorism. My delegation regrets the failure of the outcome document to address non-proliferation and disarmament in the area of weapons of mass destruction. Relative stability in today’s world should not make us complacent and lead us to compromise on the need for total disarmament. Our continuing lack of action on this issue has not served to enhance global security with respect to the threat posed by these weapons. Small arms and light weapons pose a great challenge to the maintenance of peace and security in the Caribbean region. Narcotics trafficking has brought with it increased circulation of small arms and light weapons, which has led to a sharp increase in crime and fatal injuries. Dominica therefore welcomes the agreement on an international instrument that would enable States to identify and trace illicit small arms and light weapons in a timely and reliable manner. What is still needed, however, is a legally binding international instrument that will regulate, control and monitor the illicit trade in small arms, including their transfer to non-State actors. Dominica is appreciative of the recognition accorded to indigenous people in the outcome document. As part of our commitment to the Second International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People, my delegation will work with other Member States towards the submission to the General Assembly of a draft declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples. The future of the United Nations depends on full implementation of an institutional reform agenda that addresses revitalization of the General Assembly, reform of the Security Council and improved governance in the Secretariat. General Assembly revitalization must result in the strengthening of the Assembly’s vital role as the chief deliberative, policymaking and implementation-monitoring body of the United Nations. The Secretariat needs to urgently address eroding public confidence through timely 33 implementation of the proposals for improvement in its management and oversight. Reform of the Security Council must be pursued to enhance the Council’s accountability, transparency and efficiency. Such reform must, at a minimum, ensure that the Council’s membership is more representative and remedy the continuing imbalance in the representation of Africa in the permanent membership. We welcome the initiative to establish a Democracy Fund. Consistent with our support for the promotion of fundamental human freedoms and values, we support the establishment of a Human Rights Council. We also support the proposed Peacebuilding Commission as an advisory body. Let me conclude by saying that we have a loaded agenda for the next decade, and that there are numerous challenges ahead. We wish to emphasize that that agenda can be realized only through multilateral action. As we look ahead to 2015, we have the honourable duty to make the United Nations truly serve the people of this global village. We have the obligation to ensure that we the peoples of the United Nations can truly live our lives in larger freedom.Let me begin by congratulating Mr. Eliasson on his election to the 21 presidency. He is at the steering wheel of one of the most challenging sessions of the General Assembly in history — not only because it is the sixtieth anniversary of our Organization but mainly because of our agenda and the gravity of problems awaiting resolution. While thanking his able and devoted predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, I would like to wish the President every success in the coming months of hard and hopefully rewarding work. The European Union invested a huge effort in the preparations for both the High-level Plenary Meeting and our current session, and the Czech Republic was an integral and active part of this process. We heard the statement of the European Union presidency a few days ago, and I have no intention of repeating it. Rather, let me present here several ideas and comments of a more general nature. Millions of our fellow human beings in Africa and elsewhere are trapped in absolute poverty, with little or no access to education, medical and other services, and are deprived of a dignified existence. In their regions or in other parts of the world, fascinating technical achievements and thriving economies enable large numbers of people to enjoy an unprecedentedly high quality of life. Some may simply conclude that there are several distinct worlds on our planet. But while the gaps may still be widening, let us be sure that we all live in only one increasingly interconnected world. There is no way to separate the rich from the poor or to separate different ethnic groups. And the responsibility for our future is equally indivisible. Moreover, we are repeatedly reminded that despite many advancements this world is still very fragile and vulnerable. What is the common feature of the 9/11, Bali, Madrid, Beslan, Baghdad or London terrorist attacks; floods in China or in Central Europe in 2002 and again in 2005; drought in parts of Africa; the Indian Ocean tsunami; and devastating hurricanes in the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico? They all expose in their own way the vulnerability and fragility of our civilization. Developed or developing, big or small, we continue to be vulnerable to the forces of nature as well as the forces of evil. Fortunately, the worst of situations tends to awaken the best in human character: after any such disaster or terrorist attack we have seen raising waves of solidarity on a global scale, we have seen renewed determination to fight the evil. It is our duty to tap this positive energy. Although no one will ever achieve 100 per cent security, much can be done by deepening our cooperation, strengthening preventive measures, stepping up our efforts in combating terrorism, enhancing the mechanisms of development and humanitarian aid and, in the long run, simply fulfilling the Millennium Development Goals. If reformed and mandated, the United Nations can play a central role in this process. Last year, many of us spoke of reform, and reform has indeed been one of the most frequently used words since then. There was much expectation in the air, much sincere effort to bring about change, as well as many brilliant contributions to the debate: the report of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges, and Change, the final report of the United Nations Millennium Project “Investing in Development” (the Sachs report) and the Secretary-General’s report “In Larger Freedom”. After several rounds of discussion, we could say we knew the diagnosis and could prescribe the necessary medication, hoping that the summit would add the most needed ingredients: the political will and the means of delivery. So, was the summit a success or a failure? I tend to view its results, the outcome document, with sober optimism. The challenge was enormous: to bring together development, security and human rights and to craft a new delicate balance among the elements that constitute our global agenda. In my view, the summit managed — and this could be its major achievement — to set the tone, to set at least rough parameters of a new equation, the fine-tuning of the details being left for the coming months. We have guidance for further talks on assistance and relief for developing countries. We have a prospect of increasing development aid, including from the Czech Republic. At the summit, we agreed that the human rights machinery needed strengthening and redesigning. Indeed, it was probably the first time at such a major event that human rights was placed on an equal footing with issues such as development and security. But many pieces of the puzzle have yet to be put in place. In shaping the future Human Rights Council, we have to make sure that the progressive features and experience of the Human Rights Commission are not lost, while avoiding its weaknesses and what specifically did not work, securing cooperation from 22 countries such as Belarus, Cuba, Myanmar, Zimbabwe and others which repeatedly failed to respond adequately to the international community’s concerns about human rights. Moreover, the summit reinforced our commitment to join forces in fighting terrorism, made the groundbreaking decision to create the Peacebuilding Commission and endorsed the twin concepts of responsibility to protect and human security — all of which bring new hope to those facing lawlessness and oppression and which extend existing standards of peace and security. But there are also areas where the summit failed: among others, disarmament and non-proliferation and, most notably, the expansion of the Security Council. Our reform mission remains unfinished, but must continue. If it is to face up to new challenges and tasks, the Secretariat must be strong and healthy. It has to undergo profound reform. The need for such a reform is further underlined by the recent findings of the Volcker report. I welcome the emphasis that the summit put on United Nations management and its call for efficiency, effectiveness and accountability. All in all, the summit took many steps in the right direction, shaping our vision and sharpening our tools. But there is another, hidden part of the story. Do all of us really want the United Nations to grow stronger and more efficient? Will a better, reformed — and truly universal — United Nations be able to spare the world all of its troubles? Will it be able to find solutions to every conflict and bring lasting peace to every notorious hot spot, including the Balkans, the Middle East, Iraq, Afghanistan and a number of places in Africa? Will it be able to prevent millions of people from dying from hunger and diseases such as HIV/AIDS? Will it be strong enough to guarantee and promote democracy and human rights? There is hope, and there is a chance — but the answer depends on us. I can assure the Assembly that the Czech Republic is ready to carry out its part of the assignment, including in the Security Council if elected for the period 2008-2009.The people of Ecuador wish to express their deepest condolences and fraternal solidarity to the South-East Asian nations affected by the tsunami, as well as to all our brothers and sisters living in the southern United States who were so severely affected by Hurricane Katrina. Faced with the danger of natural disasters, Ecuador is committed to the implementation of the Hyogo Framework for Action and to support the International El Niño Research Centre, based in Guayaquil. Today, the nations of the globe have come together to celebrate 60 years of human hopes, 60 years after the proclamation of the founding Charter of the Organization that represents every man, every woman, and every child. Six decades have passed since we inaugurated this institution and its essential objectives of human coexistence, peace and the international rule of law. After six decades we can rejoice with old Neruda, who lives on in our hearts, along with Stravinsky, Garcia Marquez and Mother Teresa. Let us celebrate, but let us also take stock of the dream yet to be fulfilled. Sleeplessly, we face threats and challenges that affect the survival of our species. When the second millennium ended — quite unlike the first — our world was not threatened by the terror-filled visions of the apocalypse and the seven trumpets that would transform a third of the world into blood, darkness, smoke and locusts. However, our new millennium faces the reality of increasing poverty in two thirds of the planet. Water is becoming scarce, there are holes in the ozone layer and, along with biodiversity, the Amazon is being destroyed. Entire nations are being disinherited and condemned to roam the earth, mortal illnesses hover over humanity and terrorism lurks in every corner. I have come from the middle of the world to speak of faith in the renewal of the dream. Ecuador is a small nation in South America sharing an identity with almost 400 million human beings living in an area of 8 million square kilometres. We have more than one fourth of the fresh water of the world and immense energy, mineral and food resources; we boast the greatest tropical rain forest in the world and colossal mountains, deserts and prairies. Yet, our region remains a realm of social injustice.  2 05-51226  The world order that governs us is not the one we want. It is unjust, inefficient and inhuman. We must therefore set in motion factors that were unimaginable in the middle of the twentieth century. The economy, international law and biology constitute a fundamental triangle from which the future of the human being can be projected. I set out for the Assembly the idea of building a new world order based on this trilogy. First, with regard to international law, Ecuador reaffirms its commitment to the San Francisco Charter and the principles of non-intervention and the self- determination of peoples, the peaceful settlement of disputes, and the rejection of all forms of colonialism, discrimination or segregation. In accordance with these principles my country believes in the need to strengthen the Organization, transform it and democratize it. The United Nations must develop new mechanisms to protect the survival of our species and of all forms of life. Secondly, the economy must eliminate marginalization and redress the unequal nature of opportunities, among both nations and individuals. This is the conflict. In 1945, the vital need to establish policies to promote a just and progressive distribution of surpluses was proclaimed. Nevertheless, 60 years later we see ever more regressive patterns of distribution and growing gaps at all levels, basically produced by the tragedy inherent in the accumulation of foreign debt, which represents such a heavy burden for developing nations. The burden of the debt has pauperized our peoples. It has put a brake on productive development and cancelled out the aspiration of all to have access to food, health, shelter, safety and education. The ethical mandate of our time demands a change in the collective conscience of social welfare. Heavily indebted middle-income countries must organize their efforts to arrive at joint agreements with the world’s creditors. Thirdly, the incorporation of biology into the new international order obliges the United Nations to transfer its focus from man to biology. The presence of this new factor — biology — brings with it the need to raise the level of ethics and international law to the highest degree of respect for biodiversity and the preservation of all forms of life. Ecuador attaches particular importance to this topic and is therefore concerned at the controversial spraying of glyphosate as a herbicide to eliminate illegal crops along border areas between Colombia and Ecuador. Studies on this substance suffer from technical and methodological shortcomings. Ecuador therefore calls upon the United Nations system to promote a comprehensive, reliable and credible study on the actual impact of this spraying. Ecuador considers that it is essential to apply the precautionary principle that has been recognized in many international agreements and other instruments, in particular the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. Consequently, Ecuador has asked its neighbouring Government of Colombia to suspend aerial-spraying activities in a 10-kilometre strip north of our border. As I said in my statement during the High-level Plenary Meeting (see A/60/PV.5), in my country’s opinion the Millennium Development Goals constitute a well-honed and effective tool for this century to carve out a path towards a more just humankind. I am firmly convinced that ethical regulations to preserve the biological heritage of the planet constitute the paramount goal for this third millennium. With conviction and resolve, my country has adopted a date for its future: 2015. Copies of the reports on my Government endeavours to attain the Millennium Development Goals are available in the General Assembly Hall. I should now like to talk about migrants. Globalization is creating urgent demands for the new century. One of these arises from the pain that is giving rise to a new exodus. Today the United Nations must take over the role of a new Moses. It must lead the people to their homeland and provide the bread to calm the hunger of the wretched of the world. More than 175 million human beings have been forced to leave their homeland in search of better days. Today migrants are treated worse than capital or commercial goods: we are always looking to provide freedom of transit for these. The mere existence of this fact forces us to recognize that for the hungry of the third world there is no liberty and even less the equality and fraternity symbolized two centuries ago by the French revolution. The link between the migrant issue and development is undeniable and must be handled in a transparent manner based on a vision of shared responsibility on the part of all nations involved. On migration routes we must overcome the police stigmatization of the undocumented. Regularization requires that the rights of migrants be viewed as a fundamental human right and must be reflected in every State’s population policy. The Government of 05-51226 3 Ecuador calls upon this forum to address the problem of migrants in terms of equality for all nationals. We propose that this problem be addressed at the high- level dialogue on international migration and development, to be held in 2006. We in the Government of Ecuador, aware of the need for migration and its consequences to be treated in an integral and responsible manner, have approved a law revising our criminal code to define crimes of the sexual exploitation of minors and the trafficking of persons. In addition, we have placed before our National Congress a new proposal to punish all forms of trafficking in human beings. I should like to talk about indigenous peoples and peoples of African descent. The International Decades of the World’s Indigenous People, proclaimed by the General Assembly, have been a valuable opportunity to increase awareness of the situation of our brothers and to promote respect for their identity and the chance to find viable solutions to their problems. The biology of the new world order requires recognition of their rights as protagonists of history and as leading actors in society. In the Ecuador of the last decade, indigenous peoples have been significant components of our social and political life. That is recognized in our Constitution and in International Labour Organization (ILO) Agreement 169. In recent years, Ecuador has witnessed a serious deterioration in its democratic institutions. Faced with that situation, my Government has pledged to restore the rule of law by means of profound political reform legitimized through a referendum of the Ecuadorian people. We are determined to firmly fight the corruption that erodes democratic structures. Only three days ago, on 15 September, my Government deposited its instrument of ratification as the thirtieth State party to the United Nations Convention against Corruption, which made it possible for the Convention to enter into force. The voice of my people, the people of Ecuador, echoes the deep-throated clamour of Latin America. We want to be part of a greater nation, South America, a human assembly that can make its voice heard and follow the path to genuine, just development accompanied by greater solidarity on behalf of the principles that we have recalled here. At the outset, I would like to convey the condolences of my people to the friendly people of the United States on the tragic loss of life and large-scale destruction caused by Hurricane Katrina. This is also a stark reminder of the many other natural and man-made disasters, such as famine in Africa, tsunamis, earthquakes, ecological catastrophes and wide-scale violence and terrorism. They all require sustained international attention and cooperation. Having suffered from similar disasters, Turkey deeply feels for others and stands in solidarity with them. Upholding the principles of justice, dignity, equality and social progress for the men and women of our world should be the basis of the international order. We must spread justice together with freedom. We cannot rest until we provide prosperity and dignity for every human being. Those principles should guide us in our future efforts. We have left a very busy period behind, culminating with an important summit. The Summit Outcome document (resolution 60/1) has encouraged us all to focus on the global problems we face and on the way to achieve positive change. Now is the time to act. We must start implementing what we have agreed upon on issues ranging from peacebuilding to human rights. While doing this, we must not lose sight of our main target: we must reach the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals, by the year 2015. With these things in mind, we welcome the Secretary-General’s proposal to start with an accountability pact (see ). We also welcome your idea, Mr. President, to submit an outline of work for the year ahead related to follow-up of the summit. A large number of international problems that are high on the United Nations agenda are occurring in our part of the world. These are real issues that closely affect the daily lives of our people. As a country with a 2 rich heritage and great international experience, we are working to build a culture of compromise and reconciliation. Our historical and cultural links to nations in neighbouring regions from Eurasia to the Islamic world and our role as a member of European, trans-Atlantic and Mediterranean institutions will have a positive effect on Turkey’s contribution to international relations in the twenty-first century. It is against that background, and with a sense of confidence, that I take the opportunity to submit to the Assembly’s attention Turkey’s candidacy for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the term 2009-2010. Ongoing reform efforts hold great promise for the improvement of the political, social and economic standards of the Middle East region. We will continue to encourage and assist those local efforts. Concerning the Arab-Israeli conflict, the Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip is an encouraging development. We would like to witness the same positive trend in the West Bank. Israeli settlement activities in occupied territories must come to an end. The sanctity of the holy sites in Jerusalem must be respected. The road map should be revived and fully implemented. Furthermore, we must not let terror and violence derail the process this time. The reform of the Palestinian National Authority must move forward, particularly in the security domain. Efforts to improve the living conditions of the Palestinians have to be intensified. We support the work of Mr. James Wolfensohn, Quartet Special Envoy for Disengagement, and are cooperating with him. We believe these efforts will help restore a sense of hope among the Palestinians and ensure security for the Israelis. In order to integrate the Palestinians with the world, seaports and airports must be built and activated. Border crossings and trade corridors must function smoothly. Freedom of movement must be achieved. Such measures will go a long way towards revitalizing the Palestinian economy. That will encourage the Palestinians to become real partners in peace with the Israelis. Turkey is already actively working with the parties for the realization of this vision. We are determined to continue to contribute in any way we can. Iraq’s destiny and the way the events are unfolding in that country are of crucial importance for peace and stability in the Middle East and beyond. Building a democratic and prosperous Iraq at peace with itself and its neighbours will be possible only if the Iraqi people act as one, in full solidarity and with a clear vision. Ethnic and religious differences in Iraq should not be divisive. Rather they should be a source of cultural plurality. Otherwise, the new Iraq will be a source of instability and conflict, instead of hope and inspiration for the entire region. Turkey, in cooperation with the United Nations, has been in the forefront of efforts for political and economic rehabilitation in Iraq. The Neighbours of Iraq forum, again pioneered by Turkey, has been an efficient platform to support the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq. The security situation is a source of concern for all. Iraq has, unfortunately, become a training ground for terrorists. As a neighbouring country, Turkey suffers as a result of this. We are concerned that terrorism emanating from Iraq might have a ripple effect on other countries, including Turkey. It is our joint duty to prevent such an outcome. The problems of Nagorny Karabakh, Abkhazia and South Ossetia continue to impede peace and cooperation in the South Caucusus. These problems defy all United Nations principles. They demand our urgent attention. In particular, a peaceful settlement must be found to the Nagorny Karabakh issue consistent with the territorial integrity of Azerbaijan. Steps towards ending the occupation of Azeri territory will create a better climate in the region, including in Turkish-Armenian relations. We are giving full support to the efforts of the Minsk Group. We are closely following the high-level contacts between Turkey’s two neighbours and are encouraging the parties to make progress. In Afghanistan, many challenges still lie ahead. The continued support of the international community is still needed. Among other matters, education, health, gender equality and economic development need increased attention. Alternative crops must be encouraged in order to replace widespread poppy cultivation. As a country that has twice led the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan, 3 for a total of 14 months during the past three years, Turkey wishes to reiterate its continued commitment. We welcome the holding of elections as an encouraging development for democracy in Afghanistan. We are determined to continue our support for the strengthening of peace, stability and prosperity in South-East Europe. The Balkan region has made considerable progress towards the establishment of a peaceful environment leading to economic development. The political and economic consolidation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and final-status talks in Kosovo need to be monitored carefully. Turkey will continue to be a reliable partner in this process. Regarding the Eastern Mediterranean, our vision is to create a basin of cooperation, stability and prosperity among Turkey, Greece and the two peoples of Cyprus. However, it is regrettable that, at a time when we are debating the best way to reform the United Nations and enhance its role, we are at the same time witnessing an attempt to move the Cyprus problem away from this Organization. We regard these efforts to undermine the role of the United Nations as a most disturbing paradox. The Annan plan represented a unique basis for the solution of this problem. Although it did not fully meet their expectations, for the sake of compromise the Turkish Cypriots approved the plan by an overwhelming majority. On the other hand, under the effective guidance of the Greek Cypriot leadership, the rejection of the Annan plan in a referendum held last year was a blow to the international community. Thus, a chance to put an end to the division of the island once and for all was missed. The report of the Secretary-General (S/2004/437) issued after the referendum gave an overview of the long negotiating process and recommended the lifting of all restrictions upon the Turkish Cypriots. Unfortunately, against established practice, the comprehensive report of the Secretary-General on Cyprus is being disregarded. As a result, the unfair restrictions imposed upon the Turkish Cypriots could not be lifted. One might find it difficult to believe that the Turkish Cypriots still continue to live under restrictions, cut off from the outside world. During the ensuing period, the Secretary- General’s soundings and his efforts to reactivate the talks based on his plan have yielded no tangible results because of the continued intransigence of the Greek Cypriot administration. As if that were not enough, the Greek Cypriot administration is now trying to sideline the United Nations and carry this issue to other forums. I urge all international actors to discourage these misguided efforts. Turkey continues to be ready to contribute to United Nations endeavours to find a just, equitable and lasting solution to the Cyprus problem on the basis of the Annan plan. On this occasion, I would like to reiterate the proposal that I made on 30 May 2005 for the lifting of all restrictions related to the island (see A/59/820). In that proposal, I basically suggested that it was necessary to enable the free movement of people, goods and services and to lift all restrictions applied to seaports and airports between the two sides in Cyprus as well as to Turkey and Greece. It is evident that this proposal conforms to the legitimate expectations of the international community. We attach great importance to furthering our relations and cooperation with the African continent. According to an action plan, Turkey is vigorously developing its relations with Africa as a whole. We recently opened an office in Addis Ababa to serve as a coordination centre for Turkish humanitarian and developmental assistance to the continent. The Turkish Government has also declared 2005 as the Year of Africa in Turkey. We will continue our contributions to international institutions, working to alleviate the suffering and eliminate disease and hunger in Africa. The chain of attacks in various parts of the world proves that no country is immune to terrorism. We condemn these atrocities in the strongest terms. No distinction should be made among terrorist organizations. There is no room for double standards in this fight. We must reject terrorism as a method, regardless of where, why and how it is employed. Combating terrorism should be a global and collective effort, and the United Nations should continue to play a prominent role. We welcome Security Council resolutions that call for strengthened measures against incitement of terrorist acts and in favour of the prevention of armed conflict, particularly in Africa. We must also resist any temptation to associate any specific culture, religion or faith with terrorism. We should keep in mind that the right to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy requires full and transparent cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency. The establishment of zones free of 4 weapons of mass destruction, particularly in the Middle East, will be an important contribution to international peace and security. Strengthening multilateralism and the central role of the United Nations in the international system is a fundamental aspect of our foreign policy. It is the strongest hope and guarantee for a safer and better world.One week ago, the world summit sent a message of hope for peace, development and human rights for all, and took a number of steps towards institutional reform at the United Nations. The summit meeting has achieved much. It has also left a lot undone and has not met our expectations in several areas. We agree with the General Assembly President’s assessment that only the work we do over the next few months will allow us a final assessment of the value of the outcome document. The summit certainly did not achieve the comprehensive breakthrough we had hoped for. We therefore look forward to working under the President’s guidance on the follow-up and implementation and welcome the fact that he has started this process immediately. Institutional change must be the focus of our attention over the next few months, both through the creation of new bodies and the adaptation of existing ones. We will give particular attention to the Human Rights Council, the Security Council, the General Assembly and the Secretariat. We shared the general relief at the last-minute agreement on the outcome document, since a lack of such agreement would have been disastrous. We had created expectations that were much higher than what we could have possibly achieved, at a time when the United Nations seemed more in need of reform than ever before. The reputation and the worldwide image of the United Nations is clearly not what it used to be — the oil-for-food scandal, cases of sexual exploitation by United Nations peacekeepers, inaction in the face of mass crimes and humanitarian crises have overshadowed the many success stories that this Organization has to tell. 15 It is important to move on from the oil-for-food scandal. Moving on, however, must not mean that we ignore, yet again, the fact that the massive abuse and mismanagement revealed in the Volcker reports are but one expression of what is a systemic problem. Too much went wrong in the oil-for-food programme, and everybody involved failed in their responsibilities in one way or another, including the Security Council. No bureaucracy can be changed overnight, as we all know from our national experience; but it is clear that only a more accountable Secretariat, one that works without undue pressure from us, the Member States, can restore the confidence of the peoples it is meant to serve. Accountability must also be a key principle for the intergovernmental bodies and thus guide us in our work on the relevant reforms. We are concerned at the increasingly skewed institutional balance within the Organization. The Security Council has clearly taken on a role that goes far beyond the central place it was given under the Charter. Indeed, its activities are increasingly venturing into the domains reserved for the General Assembly, in particular. This entails a twofold risk. On the one hand, many countries increasingly feel a lack of ownership of the Organization, although collective ownership based on the principle of sovereign equality is one of the cornerstones of the Organization. On the other hand, the Security Council is at risk of being paralysed by the sheer amount of issues on its agenda. The answer to this challenge is clear: we need a stronger General Assembly that asserts its central role and carries out its functions effectively. In parallel, the Security Council must become more transparent and accountable in order to truly carry out its functions on behalf of the entire membership. The lack of a solution to the complex issue of Security Council reform is a disappointment to many. Enlargement and a more representative Council are clear necessities, and we will do our part to achieve an early solution, with the strongest possible political support. In addition, and not less importantly, we must also improve the working methods of the Security Council, as stated in the World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1). Transparency, accountability and stronger involvement of States that are not members of the Council are of decisive importance to enable it to truly act on behalf of the membership, as mandated by the Charter. We will work hard for early and concrete results, since effective changes in the daily workings of the Council would benefit the entire membership. We routinely repeat our annual call for a stronger General Assembly. Small steps are taken every year, and all of them are important. It appears to us, however, that the most essential efforts to revitalize the General Assembly do not come from measures contained in General Assembly resolutions. Rather, Member States must ensure that the Assembly is seized with truly relevant topics that are treated efficiently and effectively. We may deplore the migration of topics to the Security Council that we think should be dealt with instead by the General Assembly. This trend, however, will continue unabated unless the Assembly proves to be a central decision-making body that takes its responsibilities seriously. The Assembly is what we, as Member States, want it to be. A genuine and sustained effort is, therefore, required from all of us. We continue to fully support the early establishment of a Human Rights Council to replace the Commission on Human Rights. Like others, we were disappointed at the meagre substance on this topic that found its way into the outcome document. The Organization needs a standing body that effectively promotes human rights worldwide, swiftly responds to gross and systematic violations of human rights and reflects the importance of human rights for this Organization. Close cooperation with a strengthened Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights will be essential. The Council must not duplicate the work carried out by other bodies, in particular the General Assembly. It must, therefore, not be a remake of the Commission on Human Rights with a new label. We look forward to working with the presidency towards an early solution that would add concrete value for the protection and promotion of human rights. Mr. Loizaga (Paraguay), Vice-President, took the Chair. We consider the recognition of the “responsibility to protect” as one of the most positive elements in the outcome document. The main obligation for its implementation naturally falls to the Security Council. The Council has to ensure that disgraceful inaction, such as in the case of the genocide in Rwanda, cannot ever occur again. When the lives of innocent civilians are at stake, such a responsibility must not be compromised by political considerations. Collective 16 action to prevent and respond to genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes must, therefore, not be made impossible by a veto or threat of veto by one of the permanent members of the Council. We hope that the Council will stand up to the challenge raised by the summit. The membership as a whole clearly has a shared obligation in this respect. Our achievement in the Summit Outcome on the “responsibility to protect” stands in stark contrast to our silence on the importance of fighting impunity for the worst crimes of international concern. More progress has been made in this area in the past few years than in almost any other area of international relations. Transitional justice is now an inevitable element of any serious effort to help societies in post- conflict situations. There is now a close and well- established relationship between the International Criminal Court and the United Nations, in particular after the Security Council decision to mandate the Court to investigate the crimes in Darfur. We trust that efforts to fight impunity will remain a high priority for the Organization, recognizing the central role of the International Criminal Court in that respect. While it may be premature to pronounce a final judgement on the value of the outcome document, one thing can be said with certainty: that document is a reflection of what is agreeable five years after the Millennium Summit. It is remarkable how uneven progress has been in several areas. Major advances, such as the decision to fill an institutional void by creating a Peacebuilding Commission, are accompanied by major failures, such as the absence of any agreement in the area of disarmament and non- proliferation. We have no choice but to build on the positive elements of the Summit Outcome and to find early solutions to institutional questions, in particular. Progress in those areas should help us to intensify our work and eventually to find agreement on unresolved questions in vital areas such as disarmament and non- proliferation. In this way, we can make the summit a turning point in the history of the United Nations. Two years ago, the Secretary-General said that we had reached a fork in the road; that observation was repeated many times during the process leading up to the summit. So where are we today? Looking back at what we have achieved, it seems that we have taken the advice of Yogi Berra, one of the great legends of the City of New York, who said: “When you come to a fork in the road, take it!”In no way can today’s discussion be called routine. We are faced with summing up the preliminary results of the large-scale United Nations reforms that have been launched and designating the main thrust for the work of the entire system of United Nations institutions in implementing the outcome document of the 2005 world summit. We propose to structure the work of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly in such a manner as to facilitate the broadest possible agreement on a number of conceptual issues related to strengthening the United Nations that will, to a large degree, determine our ability to enhance the manageability of international trends in an era of globalization, and better respond to its new accompanying threats and challenges. An analysis of the experience of the United Nations over the sixty years of its existence, with all the vagaries of the post-war, cold war and post-cold war world order, gives us much food for thought and many conclusions. I would like to share some of that with you from the viewpoint of the Russian Federation. As the most representative international institution with a universal mandate, the United Nations has been and remains a major integration factor in global politics. The success of the United Nations is our success and its failures are our failures. But ultimately the balance of its work is, we believe, definitely positive. It is primarily due to this Organization that we have managed to avoid a new threat of world war and a nuclear disaster and have been able to prevent and settle dozens of military conflicts. At present, the United Nations mechanisms continue to be a means of constructive cooperation touching upon all spheres of human activity. The greater interdependence of the modern world has not made it more secure. The standoff between East and West has been replaced by numerous crises and conflicts that until recently had remained latent, left on the periphery of the interests of the two super- Powers. Some of those conflicts are becoming real or potential sources of international terrorism, feeding transborder crime and drug trafficking, which are closely related to it. Humanity faces the threat of the uncontrolled spread of weapons of mass destruction and the possibility of their falling into the hands of terrorists. Again the world is witnessing genocide and humanitarian disasters. All of this presents immediate danger to each and every one of us. 11 In that context, the enormous potential of the United Nations is in greater demand, primarily in ensuring peace and security on a collective and, more importantly, on a legitimate legal basis. The Organization has at its disposal an entire arsenal of resources enabling it to coordinate the actions of the international community, to combine political efforts with those in the social, economic and humanitarian areas, as well as in the field of protection of human rights and the environment and other spheres. We should develop these assets through the concerted efforts of all States. Russia considers this task to be a strategic core element of its foreign policy. The events of the first years of the new millennium reaffirm the validity of the conclusions drawn by the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change and the Secretary-General, that is, that a stronger United Nations and a better use of its multilateral advantages are an essential instrument to build a balanced, safe international system, based on respect for the unique features of every country, their sovereign equality and collective responsibility. There is no reasonable alternative to this. Multilateral mechanisms should also play a key role in resolving the issues of disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, based on strict compliance with the relevant international agreements. United Nations achievements include Security Council resolution 1540 (2004), initiated by Russia, and the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, which establishes the legal basis for preventing weapons of mass destruction from falling into the hands of terrorists. It is now crucial to prevent an arms race in outer space. I remind the Assembly that Russia has assumed the obligation not to be the first to launch any type of new weapon into space and has called upon other countries possessing space capabilities to join in this measure to keep outer space peaceful. It is time to take steps to enhance transparency and build confidence in this area. The legal basis for countering new threats, primarily terrorism, is being reinforced. The adoption at the recent Security Council summit of resolution 1624 (2005), initiated by the United Kingdom, is a new, important step forward. It places outside the law not only the terrorists, their accomplices and those who finance them, but also the individuals inciting terrorist acts. This Security Council decision should put an end to attempts to engage the mass media to propagandize and justify terrorism. We anticipate that the General Assembly will also contribute to the fight against terrorism and will promote completion of the negotiations on a comprehensive convention on international terrorism as soon as possible. The fight against terrorism must be continued most decisively. Each of us should critically assess his or her efforts in this area. The realities are that while the sanctions against the Taliban, Al-Qaida and associated individuals and entities are still in force, the supplying of arms and material and other kinds of assistance to the fighters continues. The geographical scope of their activities is expanding. For many countries, including Russia, this is tangible on their own soil. Extremists who are not directly linked to Al-Qaida are also stepping up their activities in various parts of the world. This requires strengthening of cooperation between States and the 1267 sanctions Committee, the 1540 Committee and, of course, the Security Council’s Counter-Terrorism Committee. Furthermore, we believe that the compilation of a consolidated list of all terrorists and terrorist organizations, whether they are associated in any way with Al-Qaida or not, cannot be postponed. The development of criteria for the use of force in accordance with the United Nations Charter is another pressing issue. Such criteria, when agreed upon, could be useful if they become a kind of benchmark for consideration by the Security Council of various crisis situations. At the same time, it is clear that these criteria cannot be applied automatically. The Security Council would authorize the use of force on a case-by-case basis, as called for in the Charter. Another equally important topic is that of States, in exercising their Charter right to individual and collective self-defense, to include self-defense in case of an external terrorist attack or the imminent threat of such attack. Russia, like other States that have become targets of terrorist attacks originating beyond their borders, has no right to err in the eyes of its citizens, who have entrusted their security to us. We anticipate that those critical issues will be given due attention at this session of the General Assembly. Above all, force should not be used to oppose law. It can be an effective tool to ensure the rule of law 12 in crisis situations. It is a tool to be used in extraordinary cases in which vital, legally protected values and interests of the entire international community, or certain of its members, are in jeopardy. Unfortunately, in the preparations for the 2005 world summit, insufficient attention was given to seeking solutions to those and other important issues and to finding a way to common understanding. Thus, that task must remain a top priority of our agenda. Much remains to be done in terms of development and the eradication of poverty, epidemics, famine and illiteracy. Such action would be the strongest way to ensure global stability and eliminate the breeding grounds of extremism of all kinds. Russia endorses all initiatives aimed at attaining the Millennium Goals and will enhance its contribution to resolving those urgent issues. The success of our concerted efforts to support development greatly depends on the efficacy of the Peacebuilding Commission to be established. The Commission will achieve the required results if it is more than just another debating society and if it can be a mechanism facilitating the greater coordination of the programmes and the projects of all the participants in development assistance, including the World Bank Group, the International Monetary Fund, regional development banks, other multilateral and bilateral donors and, of course, recipient countries. The dramatic events of the last six months have revealed the sensitivity of the issue of Security Council reform for the majority of Member States. Guided above all by its interest in ensuring the Security Council’s effectiveness, Russia continues to support possible modifications of that key organ on the basis of well-conceived and mutually acceptable decisions. United Nations Members have made the wise decision to continue negotiations, rather than pushing for a vote that might split the Organization. I recall the striking words: the United Nations was created not to make heaven on Earth but to save the Earth from hell. Indeed, the United Nations is not an ideal body, but the best that humanity was able to create on the ashes of two world wars. With the help of the United Nations, we are able to effectively counter threats to peace and security in the context of evolving geopolitical realities. Today, mankind is facing the challenges of globalization. It is not a question of whether we should accept those challenges or not, but of how we should respond to them, and on the basis of what principles. The 2005 world summit decisions outline the general direction for our efforts. As a permanent member of the Security Council and the next President of the Group of Eight, Russia, together with other States, will continue to strive to strengthen the collective underpinnings of global politics and to enhance mechanisms for multilateral cooperation.Following closely, as it does, on the heels of last week’s High-level Plenary Meeting, the remainder of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly is challenged to take steps towards the early implementation of the agreed outcome. In the eyes of many, the summit document (resolution 60/1) is less than satisfactory in terms of both its scope and its substance. Nonetheless, it represents a common platform on which we can build further to reach higher levels of international cooperation. To you, Mr. President, my dear friend, falls the task of spearheading that enterprise. Your outstanding diplomatic experience assures us all that you will succeed in the mandate given to you. If I am to give you any advice on how you should now proceed, I would simply echo — and then perhaps very slightly paraphrase — the words of Dag Hammarskjöld, your compatriot and former Secretary-General, when he said, “Never measure the height of a mountain until you have reached the top”. To this I would add, then you will see that the climb was not all that bad. We owe a debt of gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping of Gabon, the outgoing President, for his effective stewardship of the work of the Assembly during the fifty-ninth session. To the Secretary-General I wish to express our appreciation for his effort to equip our Organization for the challenges that we confront today. I would also like to offer our appreciation and thanks to our host country, the United States, and to renew to it our assurances of sympathy with regard to the severe losses suffered in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. As was stated earlier by President Jagdeo of Guyana (see A/60/PV.8), international development goals — and especially the Millennium Development Goals, which were set at the Summit five years ago and which we have just reviewed — remain an important benchmark for global development. Aimed at securing the important prerequisites for our economic and social advancement in such areas as health, education and other basic services, they must be fully embraced and pursued by the international community. My own country has been diligent in working towards those objectives. Through a visionary poverty- reduction strategy and the allocation of more resources to the social sector, we have been able to improve the lot of the disadvantaged among our population and enlarge their opportunities for a better life. Unfortunately, however, further progress is now being jeopardized by a number of untoward developments. Among these has been the recent revision of Europe’s agriculture policy, and more particularly the European Commission’s proposal to drastically reduce the price for the sugar exports of African, Caribbean and Pacific States. That proposal, if implemented, will seriously affect our own sugar industry and will plunge many of our people who depend on it into extreme poverty. Our economy stands to lose some $40 million per year, a sum that nullifies the $8 million which we will have received as a result of the recent Group of Eight decisions on debt relief. The result is an example of the skewed and often incoherent policies pursued by some developed countries. Without consultation or warning, they adopt measures that wreak enormous havoc on the economies of developing countries, particularly the small and the vulnerable. The only hope on the horizon for us lies in the promise held out by several recent initiatives, such as the Millennium Challenge Account of the United States, the International Finance Facility of the United Kingdom, the Action Against Hunger and Poverty Initiative, led by Brazil and other States, and, more latterly, the levy on air travel suggested by France and 11 others for the financing of development. As the review of the Millennium Development Goals has revealed, an additional $50 billion will be needed annually to reach the targets set. New and additional resources are therefore clearly required if we are to make any impact on global poverty. While we in the developing world would prefer to rely on trade instead of aid for our development, the prospects for improving our position are bleak. The road from Cancún to Dalian to Hong Kong has been tedious, strewn with obstacles and, now, highly uncertain. As in New York, developed countries seem content with making broad declarations rather than specific commitments. The calls by small economies for special and differential treatment have thus far been only grudgingly acknowledged. Yet, without full regard for paragraph 35 of the Doha Declaration, countries like mine are likely to be further marginalized by the global economy. Economic and social progress will come to the developing world only when its countries are allowed to have a say in the decision-making on development issues. The chapter in the 2005 Human Development Report on our interdependent world quotes an African proverb that states that “Until the lions have their historians … tales of hunting will always glorify the hunter” (p. 113). It is therefore time for the developing world, which has long been considered only an object in the development process, to be given a more active and participatory role in the process. Only then will we be able properly to address the outcome of our policies. Many of the prescriptions for poverty eradication have been based on the time-worn theory of development that posits that the increasing economic prosperity of the developed world will eventually raise the standard of living for all States — that is to say, that a rising tide lifts all boats. But any serious analysis of that development paradigm as it has functioned over the past several decades will amply demonstrate that that is a very flawed concept. The gap between rich and poor countries continues to widen, a reality to which the 2005 Human Development Report amply testifies. There therefore has to be a serious global rethinking of what constitutes real and sustainable development. We cannot avoid the conclusion that while the realization of the Millennium Development Goals will provide the necessary foundation for development, true economic and social progress cannot be achieved in the absence of a more comprehensive policy framework that encompasses significant assistance and investment flows, wider debt relief, more equitable trade and economic cooperation and the transfer of science and technology for development purposes. That realization has led my Government to advocate at the United Nations the promotion of a new global human order: a more comprehensive and holistic strategy based on equity and social justice. With regard to the second major area of concern addressed in the Secretary-General’s report entitled “In larger freedom” (A/59/2005) — namely, the issues of democracy, human rights and security — let me say that Guyana, as a newly restored democracy, fully supports the promotion of all fundamental human freedoms and values. After all, they constitute the bedrock of the United Nations Charter and the basic rights of our peoples. We therefore welcome the initiative to establish a Democracy Fund to propagate the democratic ideal, as well as the setting up of a Human Rights Council to replace the current Commission on Human Rights. Raising the status of the Commission on Human Rights can do much to enhance respect for human rights. We are concerned, however, about the representative character of the proposed Council and would be seriously distressed if it were to emerge as an elite directorate sitting in judgement of other States deemed to be less than equal. The holier-than-thou attitude of some countries on matters relating to democracy and human rights is not acceptable in an Organization founded on the principles of the equality of States, mutual understanding and respect. No one is perfect, and we all fall short of the glory of God. It would therefore be imperative for the General Assembly, in its further consideration of that proposal, to carefully examine such issues as the criteria for membership, size and voting procedures, in order to ensure that the principles of the Charter are not vitiated. Finally, there is the third leg of the report’s thematic tripod, namely, security. As is now universally recognized, security is a sine qua non for the protection of democracy and human rights, as well as for the promotion of development. It is therefore essential, in view of the vast array of threats to international peace and security, that we mount the necessary defences against the spread of terrorism, 12 transboundary crime, arms and drug trafficking, disease and the increasing incidence of natural disasters, which must now be an integral process of our development analysis. Unfortunately, however, the cost of such measures takes a very heavy toll on our limited human and financial resources — resources that can be better spent in the area of development. To illustrate the challenge we face, let me cite the case of my own country, which, after suffering a disastrous flood earlier this year that led to a loss of almost 60 per cent of our gross domestic product (GDP) — according to an assessment by the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean — now faces spiralling oil prices, amounting, in terms of expenditure, to 24 per cent of GDP and heavy revenue loss to our sugar-export earnings. How can one speak meaningfully in such circumstances of achieving the Millennium Development Goals? Small countries like ours have to find solutions to these pressing problems, or else run the risk of being thrust further back into underdevelopment. For several decades now, we have been seeking to reform the United Nations system to make it more responsive to the challenges of our times. To some extent we have succeeded in our effort but, clearly, much more remains to be done. We therefore urge the President to hold to his promise and to pursue the revitalization of the General Assembly, the most democratic and representative of the United Nations organs, to enable it to promote the high principles and purposes of the Charter. The potential of the Assembly’s role in fighting the scourge of war and promoting development is yet to be fully explored and exploited. At the same time, it is necessary to bring development issues, which are now largely the purview of multilateral financial institutions, more fully within the ambit of the United Nations, particularly the Economic and Social Council, where developing countries can have a greater voice on matters pertaining to their welfare. Of some urgency is the reform of the Security Council, the organ responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security. It is time that the Council be made more equitable in its composition, more democratic in its decision-making and more effective in its operation. The deliberations of the relevant working group have generated wide-spread agreement on the need for expansion of the Council’s membership. The various permutations have been explored, and all options are on the table. We are now offered a historic opportunity to reform the Council — an opportunity that, if not taken now, may not soon come our way again. My delegation therefore urges the Assembly to expedite and conclude its work in this area. The latest proposal for an advisory Peacebuilding Commission is a welcome one, since there is a clear relationship between conflict and development. Much too often, the gains made in the area of conflict resolution are rapidly negated by the lack of accompanying measures to preserve stability and encourage development. Such a commission, if properly conceived and constituted, can usefully complement and optimize the work of the principal organs of the United Nations. In the end, however, if we are to achieve a stronger, more democratic and effective United Nations, we will have to go beyond the reform of its organs and agencies to a reform of the attitudes and behaviour of States, which, while giving lip service to such concepts as partnership, cohesion and interdependence, fail to practice those virtues in their relations with other States. There is always a vast divide between declarations and deeds. Yet, the implementation of the common agenda that we have set ourselves at the sixtieth session is not possible without a greater commitment to change. As the 2005 Human Development Report states, it cannot be business as usual for the United Nations. The Millennium Declaration must be more than a paper promise. We need to “mobilize the investment resources and develop the plans needed to build the defences that can stop the tsunami of world poverty”. (2005 Human Development Report, p. 2) That is the challenge issued to the sixtieth session of the General Assembly, and the yardstick by which its success will be judged. For the sake of the billions who continue to live in fear and want, we must seek to achieve that larger freedom that is the birthright of all humankind. On behalf of the Government and the people of Nigeria, and in my capacity as the current Chairman of the African Union (AU), I would like to extend my sincere congratulations to you, Sir, and your country, Sweden, on your election as President of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. I should also commend you for the leadership you provided at the High-level Plenary Meeting over the past three days. The theme you have chosen for this year’s general debate — “For a stronger and more effective United Nations: the follow-up and implementation of the High-level Plenary Meeting in September 2005” — is indeed most appropriate and timely, as it encapsulates our common desire for a renewed and invigorated Organization. I assure you of the full support and cooperation of the Nigerian delegation. I would also like to express appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping of the Republic of Gabon, for his leadership and dedication. I commend the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, for his tenacity and leadership qualities, which sustain the role of the United Nations and underlie the current reform process of the United Nations system. You, Sir, have assumed the presidency of the sixtieth session at a time when the United Nations is witnessing epoch-making historic events. The session has in the last three days taken the assessment and review of the five-year implementation of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Besides pursuing the reform process, launched by the report of the Secretary-General’s High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, entitled “A more secure world: our shared responsibility” (A/59/565), and the Secretary-General’s own report entitled “In larger freedom” (A/59/2005), the session will also mark the tenth year of implementation of the Declaration and Platform for Action of the Fourth World Conference on Women and the Declaration and Programme of Action of the World Summit for Social Development, held in Beijing and Copenhagen, respectively. I have no doubt, Sir, that, with your vast experience in diplomacy and statecraft, you will pilot the session to a successful conclusion. The United Nations continues to play a pivotal role in the lives of all people with its vast network of activities. In this regard, Nigeria is firmly anchored in its belief, commitment to and support for the strengthening of the United Nations and the protection of its ideals, in particular, the maintenance of international peace and security, prevention and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and promotion of international cooperation in solving international economic, social, cultural and humanitarian problems. There remains so much to do in these areas that only a rejuvenated United Nations can optimally respond to the challenges. 11 Last year, the situation in the Sudan, including the Darfur region, was a cause of serious concern to Africa and indeed to the international community. However, with the combined efforts of the United Nations, the African Union and the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), we have managed to usher in an era of hope in that country. A Comprehensive Peace Agreement has been signed and implemented on the long-drawn north-south conflict, and the fifth round of inter-Sudanese peace talks on Darfur resumed in Abuja in June 2005 and is currently in progress. I take this opportunity to once again appeal to the parties to shed their hard-line approach to negotiation and adopt a policy of give-and-take in the interest of posterity. The international community has demonstrated tremendous goodwill in facilitating the peace process in Darfur, and this must be sustained by the parties. Similarly, it is equally important to maintain and sustain the current level of peace between northern and southern Sudan. In this connection, I salute the courage of the late Mr. John Garang in leading the southern Sudanese people into reaching an accord with the Government of the Sudan. We regret the death of Mr. John Garang and extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family and to the Government and people of the Sudan. The situation in Somalia continues to give hope to the ability of the contending parties to resolve their differences in the higher interest of their beloved country. The African Union will continue to play an active role in this regard, together with the IGAD and countries in the region to help Somalis realize their dream of a united and peaceful country. In the West African subregion, the African Union and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) have continued to remain fully engaged with efforts to find a lasting solution to the crisis in Côte d’Ivoire. In this connection, we acknowledge the valuable support of the United Nations to the peace process. We appreciate the efforts deployed by President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa to mediate in Côte d’Ivoire on behalf of the AU. In view of President Mbeki’s report of 30 August 2005 and the recent declaration that the elections scheduled for October may not take place, it would be necessary for ECOWAS, and then the AU, to revisit the situation in Côte d’Ivoire. We will do so in full consultation with the Secretary-General and the Security Council of the United Nations. We commend the evolving return to democracy, reconciliation, security and development in Togo, and we appreciate the efforts of the United Nations, the European Union (EU) and other development partners in this regard. The elections in Guinea-Bissau have come and gone. The reconciliation process that will precede the inauguration of the newly elected President has begun. Both Togo and Guinea-Bissau will need substantial support to build their economies, without which their situations could deteriorate. We call on the United Nations and its institutions, along with the European Union and other development partners, to help. The AU stands resolutely by its policy of not accepting to include among its members any Government that emanates from outside a Constitution and democratic processes. That is the situation now with regard to Mauritania. We are of course maintaining a constructive dialogue and recommending an expeditious return to democracy, including national reconciliation and the necessary reforms and legislation to move the country forward. We welcome the elections in Burundi and the Government resulting from that election, which is based on the newly agreed Constitution. We appreciate the role played by all the friends of Burundi who helped to make that happen. Like Togo and Guinea- Bissau, Burundi will need special assistance to be able to consolidate its reconciliation and democracy. We applaud the Secretary-General’s proposal contained in his recent report on the situation in Sierra Leone. In particular, we welcome his intention to keep the security, political, humanitarian and human rights situation under close review. The AU is also pleased about the six-month extension of the mandate of the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL) and recognition of the need for a strong United Nations presence in the country after the withdrawal of UNAMSIL. We believe the presence of the United Nations system will foster confidence and guarantee stability during the critical months following its withdrawal. We call upon the international community to continue to extend assistance to the Government of Sierra Leone in its efforts to develop a credible, effective and sustainable police force, armed forces and 12 judiciary, as well as rebuild damaged infrastructure necessary to revamp economic and social activities. The peace process in Liberia is in its most critical phase, and calls for the cooperation of all parties in the country. The AU is closely monitoring developments there. We are optimistic that the elections scheduled for next month will lead to a successful transition. In that connection, the use of propaganda to direct attention to issues unrelated to the conduct of the forthcoming presidential elections should be avoided and resisted. It is pertinent for me to repeat here what I said before on the issue of Charles Taylor, who was encouraged to leave Liberia in order to avoid a bloodbath. He was encouraged by the leaders of Africa at the level of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the AU to voluntarily give up power and leave his country, in the interests of Liberia, West Africa and Africa, and of world peace and security. He was escorted to Nigeria by President Kuffor, who was the Chairman of ECOWAS at the time, and Presidents Mbeki and Chissano, who were, respectively, the outgoing and incoming Chairmen of the AU. We believe that the cause of peace in Liberia will be served if Charles Taylor stays away, or is kept away, from Liberia during the transition or early stages of nation-rebuilding in that country following the elections. With regard to the Great Lakes region, we have taken note of the realistic decision of the two houses of Parliament in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to extend, for a period of six months, the transition period that expired on 30 June 2005, in accordance with the provisions of the Global and All Inclusive Agreement, signed in Pretoria in December 2002, and in line with article 196 of the transitional Constitution. The AU is determined to continue to work with the United Nations to facilitate the peaceful resolution of the conflict. In that connection, we reiterate the AU’s call to all parties to the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to respect that decision. We hope that this will ensure that the elections provided for by the Agreement take place satisfactorily. With the cooperation of all parties concerned and the active support of the international community, we are hopeful for an orderly return to normality and the restoration of peace and stability in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Nigeria’s commitment to nuclear non- proliferation has never been in doubt. We have always supported the view that it should involve all States. Disarmament conventions merit the support of all States, small or large, nuclear or non-nuclear. My delegation regrets the failure of the 2005 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We should not allow the relative stability in our world to lure us into the belief that the need for total disarmament no longer exists. Nor can we separate disarmament from non- proliferation. Through that we can achieve the goal of the Charter of the United Nations of saving succeeding generations from the scourge of war and destruction. The availability and wide circulation of small arms and light weapons poses the greatest danger to peace and security, especially in our region. Those weapons have helped to prolong conflicts and to undermine stability, social peace and security. They have also wreaked devastation on the economies of affected States. Nigeria therefore welcomes the agreement of June 2005 on an international instrument that would enable States to identify and trace illicit small arms and light weapons in a timely and reliable manner. However, that is only a stop-gap measure. What we need is a legally binding international instrument that will regulate, control and monitor the illicit trade in small arms, including their transfer to non-State actors. By pronouncing ourselves clearly and positively in that regard, Member States would send a message of their resolve not to encourage or condone the diversion of those weapons to illicit networks. Terrorism remains a great threat to peace and security at the local, national and international levels. It is inimical to the rule of law, human rights, democracy and freedom. It impedes sustainable development through the destabilization of States, particularly emerging democracies and nations in transition. Nigeria reaffirms its conviction that terrorism cannot be justified under any circumstance, and should therefore be combated in all its forms and manifestations. To that end, my country welcomes the adoption, on 13 April 2005, of the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, and commits itself to work with others to mobilize the political will necessary to ensure the early entry into force of a comprehensive convention on terrorism. We also welcome the Security Council 13 resolution against the incitement of terrorism and terrorist acts. As we embark upon a review of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the challenges of hunger, poverty and disease continue to override our conscience as well as the conscience of the international community. It was our concern regarding those challenges that compelled African leaders to commit themselves to the ideals of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), whose principal objective was to encourage good governance, democracy, the rule of law, security, stability and macro-economic reforms, among other things. Four years on, NEPAD has made some modest progress that reflects our determination to make Africa work for Africans in an interdependent world and towards the achievement of sustainable development. However, notwithstanding our efforts, poverty remains endemic in Africa. The dangerous correlation between grinding poverty and alienation from government as a veritable source of political instability on the continent leaves much to be desired. We are, however, grateful for the renewed commitment of our development partners to redeem their ODA pledges, increase foreign direct investment, remodel trading architecture and provide better and effective technical and structural support to our efforts. We have also begun to emphasize well-managed and development- focused tourism as a veritable source of wealth and job creation and an effective contributor to several of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). We remain committed to providing the necessary conducive environment that will encourage investment and generate wealth and liberate our peoples from poverty. Our agricultural policies and practices are tailored to expansion capable of feeding our people, exporting some of the produce and providing raw materials for our industries. The pivotal role of trade as a veritable engine for economic growth cannot be overstated. Access to markets of developed countries, withdrawal of agricultural subsidies as well as elimination of distorting tariffs are measures that should be addressed decisively by our industrialized development partners to enhance the ability of developing countries to benefit from trade. The successful completion of the Doha multilateral trade negotiations would be a litmus test of our resolve. I wish to recognize the statesmanship displayed by members of the Paris Club, which recently granted African countries, among others, debt cancellation and debt relief. We urge the international community to adopt an effective, comprehensive, durable and development-oriented solution to the debt problem of developing countries, which has become for them a cog in the wheel of development, growth and progress. Since 1986, the HIV/AIDS epidemic has rapidly grown into a monster all over the world. In tackling the scourge, many African countries, including Nigeria, have adopted the multisectoral response strategy recommended by the United Nations. Nigeria has followed with great interest and participated actively in the various proposals on the reform of our Organization, the United Nations. We strongly support the proposal for the establishment of a Peacebuilding Commission, since this will go a long way in filling a yawning gap in the consolidation of sustainable peace and security in post-conflict countries, particularly in Africa. We also support the proposed Human Rights Council. However, we do not believe that the mere exchange of the Commission on Human Rights for the proposed Council would address perceived deficiencies in the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, unless the proposed Council adopts a new culture of treating all cases of violation with a standard yardstick capable of attracting wide support and generating confidence. As far as the proposal for the expansion of the Security Council is concerned, Nigeria has consistently supported, and as a member of the African Union Follow-up Mechanism remains faithful to, the implementation of the Ezulwini Consensus. We have done so without any second thought or national colourations with the sole aim of achieving the best for Africa in the obligatory negotiations with other regions and Members of the United Nations, whose support Africa must necessarily attract to achieve its fundamental requirement of increasing the number and quality of its membership on the Security Council. Finally, as Chairman of the African Union for the past year, I have had the privilege of working closely with brother African heads of State or Government in transforming the African Union into a truly potent and effective organization for the development of African peoples. Through our collective efforts, we have 14 brought hope and confidence to Africa. We do not, under any circumstances, intend to waver in this renewed commitment of repositioning Africa for peace, security, stability, growth, sustainable development and enduring democracy. I am optimistic that with the invaluable cooperation of the United Nations, our development partners and the international community with respect to the MDGs and other NEPAD initiatives, the African Union will successfully pursue the noble objectives enshrined in its Constitutive Act.Burkina Faso is delighted to see this important session of the General Assembly being presided over by an illustrious son of a great country, Sweden, with which we have maintained exemplary and fruitful relations of friendship and cooperation for several decades. I hasten to assure the President of the full cooperation of my delegation. It is also my pleasure to pay a tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, whose talents as a seasoned and effective diplomat we have been able to appreciate throughout the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I would like to associate in this tribute the Secretary-General, a man of great vision, who has been the architect of this new United Nations that we have so earnestly sought and who has had the courage to lay its foundations. The current session will receive specific notice in the annals of the United Nations. Apart from its coinciding with both the midterm review of the Millennium Development Goals and the reform of the Organization, this session is also being held at a watershed in world history and international relations. In Africa, despite the constant efforts of States and regional groupings, the persistence of numerous conflicts and hot spots continues to be a subject of major concern. I am thinking particularly of the situation in the Great Lakes Region, Darfur, Somalia and Côte d’Ivoire. In the Middle East, the struggle for survival is the daily battle of the Palestinian people. It is our conviction that only the strict implementation of the Road Map will make peace possible in that sorely tried region. The numerous terrorist acts throughout the world claim our attention and remind us of how vulnerable we are in the face of terrorism. We must, henceforth, realize that no strategy, no matter how energetic it might be, will be able to wipe out this scourge, unless it attacks the underlying causes, which are injustice, exclusion, humiliation and poverty. It is quite obvious that desperate behaviour stems from those sources. More than ever, the quest for democracy, good governance and respect for human rights has become part and parcel of the daily behaviour of peoples and nations. It is this vision that makes it so necessary that unprecedented reform be carried out of the United Nations, which, 60 years after its creation, is duty bound to take full account of the new challenges and new problems that have arisen. In this connection, once again we should welcome the Secretary-General’s lucidity and farsightedness, whose report “In Larger Freedom” (A/59/2005) gives us a thought-provoking framework, indicating that comprehensive and thorough reform is essential for our Organization. Furthermore, the African position on this reform, particularly that relating to the Security Council, is now well known. Burkina Faso is convinced that justice must be done to Africa and has fully joined the other members of the African Union to formulate a common platform that will make it possible for Africa to reclaim without hesitation its legitimate place in the essential United Nations decision-making bodies. 7 Nevertheless, however committed and however passionate our debate is on the reform of the United Nations, it is of paramount importance that we give even greater priority to the question of development. Speaking of development, as is so aptly pointed out in the final document of the High-level Meeting that we have just adopted, it is not so much promises and commitments that are lacking but rather their diligent and consistent fulfilment, given the urgency and acuteness of the problems we face. Under these circumstances, Burkina Faso willingly associates itself with all activities that promote genuine international solidarity. That is why we have associated ourselves with President Lula da Silva’s anti-hunger initiative. That is also why we support President Jacques Chirac’s international solidarity contribution initiative involving an airline ticket levy, which is aimed at helping to finance the struggle against AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria; Prime Minister Tony Blair’s International Finance Facility; Qatar’s Fund for Development and Humanitarian Assistance; and President George W. Bush’s Millennium Challenge Account, of which my country has just become a beneficiary. Burkina Faso also welcomes the G-8’s recent decision to cancel the multilateral debts of a number of developing countries. We hope that additional countries will be included on that list. There can be no doubt that trade relations between industrialized and developing countries continue to be marred by inequality — even inequity. It is therefore essential to recall the need to respect the rules of the multilateral trading system, which are the foundation of the World Trade Organization. It should therefore be clear why Burkina Faso continues to demand an end to the unfair export subsidies of the countries of the North, particularly as concerns cotton. Burkina Faso is a staunch proponent of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights, and peace and development in Africa and throughout the world. In that context, it is actively involved in peacekeeping operations in Africa and in other regions. Furthermore, my country, which currently holds the chairmanship of the Community of Sahelo-Saharan States and of the International Organization of La Francophonie, is proud to serve the cause of regional integration and of international brotherhood and solidarity. We believe that working for peace also means respecting international conventions. We therefore believe it to be our duty to discharge our international obligations by acceding to most of the relevant agreements and treaties, such as the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which Burkina Faso has signed and ratified. I should like to take this opportunity to encourage other countries to do likewise in order to speed up the coming into force of that legal instrument, whose importance for world peace and stability is fully evident. I hardly need recall that the current session’s leitmotif is the democratization of the United Nations. It is therefore rather difficult to understand how we can continue to disregard the rights of 23 million Taiwanese people. The time has come to deal justly with that people, which for decades now has demonstrated its commitment to democracy, peace and international solidarity. Today more than ever, the fate of humankind is in our hands. Moving in concert, in the same direction and inspired by the same principles, we must assume our new common responsibility: to build a world in larger freedom, with development, security and dignity for all.As a founding Member of the United Nations, Guatemala would like to reaffirm, before the General Assembly, its faith in and commitment to human rights and fundamental freedoms, the sovereign equality of States and participatory, transparent and democratic multilateralism. The United Nations continues to be the best tool available to humanity in its endeavour to accomplish that goal. The goals that the Charter signatories set for themselves six decades ago have lost none of their validity. Indeed, the attainment of those goals remains a major challenge for humanity. The goal of maintaining international peace and security presents new challenges. Its relationship with sustainable development and the fight against poverty serves as a paradigm in that regard. We are confronting new threats that make it harder to ensure good governance and undermine democracy, such as trafficking in persons, weapons and drugs, as well as terrorism. Small and vulnerable countries, such as mine, are particularly affected by those problems. We have been trying together to cope with such new challenges for some time, but only recently have we been able to reflect on them and reach a number of agreements that we trust will enable us to reform the Organization with a view to address these challenges, as a whole, more efficiently and with renewed ambition. We support the appeal made by Secretary-General at the beginning of the general debate for an “accountability pact” to ensure that the Secretariat and Governments are effectively held to account and monitored. Guatemala will continue to participate actively in efforts to set up the Peacebuilding Commission. Our own national experience will enable us to contribute actively to those efforts. We will also contribute to the effort to achieve the speedy conclusion of a comprehensive convention against international terrorism and to the implementation of an integral strategy aimed at the suppression of that scourge. We attach equal importance to the creation of a standing Human Rights Council, the composition of which is to be agreed upon during this session, with a view to properly focusing, depoliticizing and making 26 more effective the discharge of our responsibility to ensure the full observance of human rights. We resolutely support the strengthening of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, which should be provided with the resources necessary for it to carry out its work effectively. Similarly, we have no hesitation in supporting the responsibility to protect. We consider it essential to make decisive progress in the areas of disarmament and nuclear non- proliferation by means of initiatives such as that put forward by Norway, Australia, Chile, Indonesia, the United Kingdom, Romania and South Africa, which Guatemala supports. As regards the principal organs, we support the strengthening and revitalization of the General Assembly, whose task is to provide political guidance in connection with the work of the Organization. We must restore to the Economic and Social Council its leading role in the area of sustainable development, and continue to enhance its cooperation with the Security Council. We urge the broadest support by Member States for the reform of the Security Council. It is essential that that reform effort be comprehensive and that it include a review of the Council's methods of work and of the procedures by which decisions are taken, the purpose being to strengthen the Council and to make it more legitimate, ensuring that it reflects present-day realities and represents developing countries. We are sympathetic to the aspirations of Brazil, Germany, India and Japan to become permanent members of the Council, as well as to the call for additional representation for Africa. When addressing the Assembly one year ago, Oscar Berger Perdomo, the President of Guatemala, sought to express the feelings of our country at that crucial time in its history. I am pleased on this occasion to share with the Assembly some of the advances we have made since then. Not only were the Peace Agreements integrated into the Government plan, but the framework law on those Agreements was enacted. Social dialogue has been pursued in all areas of Government action. A 43 per cent reduction in the strength of the army was achieved, and there was progress in modernizing and professionalizing it. In line with this, the Guatemalan army has increased its participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations and is now in Haiti and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Public expenditure is concentrated in the social area and in infrastructure, for which 60 per cent of the 2006 national budget is earmarked. A secretariat for food and nutritional security has been created, while a State policy in those matters has been drawn up, with a participatory and sustainable focus. Significant activities are being carried out at the national level and jointly with other Central American countries to combat common crime and transnational organized crime. A programme for economic and social reactivation continues to be implemented with enthusiasm, a cadastral law was recently enacted and a competition policy, adopted by consensus with the participation of civil society, will be presented next week. The fight against poverty and social exclusion continues to occupy a central position in all the activities of the Government and is carried out in a manner that fully respects the ethnic, cultural and linguistic diversity of the country. Recently, we established a national policy for indigenous peoples, which was presented by the Nobel Peace Prize laureate and Ambassador for the Guatemalan Peace Agreements, Rigoberta Menchu. Appropriate legal proceedings continue to be taken against persons guilty of acts of corruption. Full transparency continues to be ensured in the area of Government procurement. Our commitment to the full observance of human rights is being maintained at the national level. Inter- agency activities are being carried out under the recently adopted national human rights programme. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has established an office in Guatemala, the functions of which are to provide advice to the Government, State entities and civil society in order to strengthen the promotion and protection of human rights in our nation. Nevertheless, the advances made are increasingly being compromised by an inordinate increase in the price of fossil fuels, which has an extremely negative effect on countries whose open economies, like that of Guatemala, are net importers of oil. Our oil bill is absorbing an increasing percentage of the foreign exchange generated by exports of goods and services. At the same time, we have had to cope with considerable increases in the cost of transportation and 27 of electricity, with their multiplier effect on productive sectors and the price of basic consumer goods. The effects of all this at the level of the economy as a whole and at the macroeconomic level threaten to slow down the expansion of our economy. For our part, we are doing all we can to conserve energy and develop alternatives to hydrocarbons. We appeal to the international community to cooperate with us in mitigating the impact of this situation. Guatemala is taking actions to strengthen democracy at the national level by consolidating a regime that is democratic, participatory and inclusive. Our commitment to democracy in the world is unshakeable. That is why we are participating actively in forums that seek to promote and defend those rights, and we also support the Democracy Fund. My country’s foreign policy has as its main objectives achieving better inclusion of Guatemala in the world, strengthening multilateralism and regional integration. We have strengthened our ties with countries and groups of countries with which we have relations and are united by institutionalized mechanisms of cooperation; moreover, we have established new strategic associations with countries and groups of countries in South America, the Caribbean, Asia and Africa. Considerable advances have been made this year in regional integration. Progress has been made in the joint assessment carried out with the European Union to launch negotiations in 2006 for an association and free trade agreement between both regions. The Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR) with the United States, which includes the Central American countries and the Dominican Republic, offers great opportunities to our country for the generation of employment, increased investment and legal certainty. However, as we enter CAFTA-DR, the credit rating and export promotion agencies of the developed countries have assigned us a risk rating less favourable than what we consider it should be. Along with other consequences, that situation unfairly increases the cost of credit for us. Guatemala has one of the best debt- servicing records in Latin America, one of the world’s best external debt indicators, well-established working relations with all multilateral agencies, sustained economic growth for more than 15 years, a stable currency, a single-digit rate of inflation and a high level of monetary reserves. Strategically, Guatemala has advanced in the negotiation of trade agreements with Colombia, the Republic of China in Taiwan, the Russian Federation, Belize, MERCOSUR, CARICOM, the Andean Group, Chile, Canada, Egypt and Israel. Another fundamental pillar of Guatemala's foreign policy is caring for the needs of Guatemalan migrants. The Government endeavours to solve their problems and to ensure that their human rights are respected, taking actions for that purpose at the national and international levels. We appeal to recipient nations, particularly the United States, to facilitate the regulation of the status of Guatemalan migrants in their countries. For those reasons, we continue to cooperate at the international level with all efforts aimed at resolving the problems that migrants face. We welcome the recognition contained in the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1) on the link between international migration and development. Guatemala will continue to take the necessary steps to put an end to poverty in the country and to attain sustainable development. Prioritization of public expenditure at the national level is not sufficient for the magnitude of the actions we are setting out to accomplish. We consider it imperative to ensure the success of the Sixth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization (WTO). By definition, the Doha Round should place development at the heart of its negotiations, and we trust that, when we meet in Hong Kong in December, we shall take decisions that by and large are consistent with the aspirations of developing countries. We need to have a level playing field in trade and agricultural commodities, and we need wider access to the markets of the most dynamic economies in the world for our goods and services, as well as to expand and diversify our product base. We welcome the offer made by President Bush in this Hall to speed up the elimination of all tariffs and subsidies that distort free trade in the world. We urge donor countries, development agencies and the international financial system to increase their financial and technical cooperation with medium and low-income countries, with a moderate debt level, one of which is my country, Guatemala. I wish to stress in particular our concern for the situation of the 23 million inhabitants of the Republic of China in Taiwan, whose aspirations for representation in international organizations remain 28 unfulfilled. Guatemala, which is committed to the maintenance of international peace and security as well as to the peaceful settlement of disputes, appeals to the countries bordering the Taiwan Strait to refrain from any threat or use of force and urges them to resolve their differences through dialogue. We also express our hope that the difficult situation in the Middle East will have a satisfactory outcome, in conformity with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), 1397 (2002) and 1402 (2002). We are heartened in that regard by the efforts and progress made in the Middle East peace process, and particularly by the dialogue begun between the parties, the implementation of the road map, and the implementation of the disengagement plan. One cannot avoid recalling here, during this anniversary of our Organization, the millions of persons who perished during the Second World War and the Holocaust as a result of the power of totalitarianism. Our presence here also recalls us to the struggle to recover democracy, freedom and the dignity of the human being. Hope was born from the liberation of men, women, boys and girls from the concentration camps, the end of the war and the adoption of the Charter in San Francisco. We cannot disappoint those hopes or return to the past. The United Nations must deliver on its promises and continue to offer humanity an opportunity.It is a distinct honour to address this Assembly on the occasion of the sixtieth regular session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, an important milestone in the life of our Organization. We would like to take this opportunity to express our warm congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the United Nations, for the skill and dynamism he has displayed in leading our Organization. We would also like to pay tribute to his dedication to the cause of peace and to the interest he has always paid to the people of Burundi during their difficult times. Allow us also at this memorable time to express our profound gratitude to the Security Council of the United Nations for the resolute will it has displayed in accompanying the people of Burundi step by step in their search for peace. Our country has just entered an essential phase in its history. In political terms, after more than ten years of war and a lengthy period of transition, the main protagonists in the conflict have agreed to bury the hatchet. Free, pluralist, fair and transparent elections were the culmination of this long process. Indeed, it was at the end of a genuine electoral marathon, involving local, legislative, senatorial and presidential elections, that the people of Burundi overwhelmingly chose the programme and candidates of my party, the CNDD-FDD (Conseil National pour la Défense de la Démocratie, Forces pour la Défense de la Démocratie), in calm and in dignity. This was an indisputable and undisputed victory recognized and acknowledged by all of the many foreign observers. The political parties have also accepted the verdict of the ballot boxes. In order to enable every opportunity for national harmony and establish democracy once again, we have just set up a Government of broad national union consisting of all the elements of the Burundi people, with its political, social, ethnic and regional diversity, a Government where women hold the significant position they deserve. We are especially pleased to note the genuine social and mental change represented by the entry of Burundian women into the political sphere. Today, women hold 35 per cent of posts in the executive branch. Their presence is notable in all State institutions. For the first time in my country’s history, 2 the National Assembly is presided over by a woman and two women are vice-presidents of the Senate. At the Government level, one of the two vice-presidencies of the Republic is held by a woman. Women head seven of the 20 ministries, including in such important posts as justice, foreign relations and planning. Lastly, many women are working in provincial and communal administrations. Our Government cherishes the hope that this contribution of women’s talents to managing the affairs of State will help to strengthen democracy by giving it a warmer, more thoughtful and peaceful image. We are also pleased that the democratic spirit of cohesion and unity in diversity which has breathed new life into the political scene is also being felt in the institutions of defence and security. Indeed, yesterday’s antagonists — the former Burundian armed forces and the armed groups arrayed against them — have been merged into new forces, known as the National Defence Force and the National Police of Burundi, in which all the country’s players are represented. That fact is rare enough to warrant highlighting. All of those profound changes have been made possible by the synergy between the concern of the international community, the courage and maturity of the Burundian people, and the willingness to compromise of the political class. We express our warmest thanks to all the international partners that accompanied us on our long road to peace. In particular, we would single out the regional initiative, the United Nations Operation in Burundi, mediators Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and President Mandela, facilitator Jacob Zuma, the European Union, the United States of America, the African Union and many friendly countries, especially those that contributed troops to the peacekeeping force as well as financial logistic means. Peace in our country, like the lasting success of our democratic experience, is closely linked to the stability of the regional environment. We therefore welcome the efforts to restore peace, stability and sustainable development in the Great Lakes region. We are closely following and actively participating in the preparations for the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region, now being organized under United Nations and African Union auspices, with the support of the region’s Group of Friends. We are one with our world village. Nothing that occurs there does not touch us. Threats to peace and security sneer at borders. We call today for an urgent partnership to combat terrorism. In that context, the general convention on international terrorism, once concluded, will be an innovative legal instrument in addressing issues that have yet to be regulated. We also need to stem the phenomenon of drug trafficking, which — with its many corollaries, including child labour, the sex industry and illegal migration — is transforming human beings into twenty-first century commodities. Combating terrorism must include promoting a culture of peace. It would thus be useful to use the International Decade for the Culture of Peace to build the defences of peace in the minds of men and women, particularly through education, the media, faith-based organizations and cultural programmes aimed at children. Terrorism is also a denial of human rights. We therefore welcome the decision to create the human rights council to promote respect for those rights. The council will allow us to end the partisan bickering prevalent in the Commission on Human Rights. As to the reform of the Security Council and other United Nations organs, our Government supports the position of the African Union. With respect to good governance, our Government is committed to taking appropriate measures to establish good governance in all its aspects. We refer in particular to capacity-building, the mobilization of domestic resources and the implementation of strategies to combat corruption, fraud and embezzlement. We will soon be unveiling a new law and anti-corruption squad. We are committed to fighting impunity, for we want to strive for impartial justice, not only by building our capacities in that sphere, but also by reforming the sectors involved in that issue. In that context, we request in particular the international community’s assistance in the urgent establishment of a truth and reconciliation commission. In the socio-economic field, we hope that the establishment of new elected, democratic institutions will lay the groundwork for robust legitimacy and effectiveness in our reconstruction and socio-economic development strategies. We wish to prioritize the 3 rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure destroyed during the war and the reintegration of expatriates, internally displaced persons, demobilized soldiers and war victims. We also intend to attach high priority to education. Thus, when we came to power, we decided to provide free primary schooling to all children by the beginning of the 2005-2006 school year. That priority goal for education requires the development and implementation of ambitious and urgent programmes to train qualified teachers, rebuild schools and obtain new educational materials. For the period 2006-2008, we are planning for the construction of at least one primary school for each census area, totalling some 350 primary schools. That will involve the construction of 800 classrooms in 2006, the recruitment of 2,000 new teachers and the acquisition of teaching materials at an estimated cost of $15 million. In that same context, we will prioritize professional training, particularly in the agricultural, paramedical, technical and trade fields, in order to hasten the country’s reconstruction. By 2008, we expect to build in each province a technical secondary school with several departments and a capacity of at least 1,000 pupils. Increased financial resources will be necessary and we know that we can count on the assistance of the international community. In that regard, we support the innovative proposal of the French Government to find new sources of development financing by imposing a levy on air tickets. Much remains to be done in the area of health. Our Government has undertaken to develop a policy to make significant improvements in universal access to health care, and to implement the national strategic plan to combat HIV/AIDS, an essential component of which is capacity-building in HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment. The achievements of my country, particularly in the political and security fields, are important steps in the right direction. Nevertheless, they are only the start of a process that must be consolidated. In particular, we will have to resume activities to combat poverty and re-establish economic growth, two essential measures that will allow our people to reap the dividends of peace. The support of the entire population for the peace process and the programme for economic growth is essential. But how can the people feel that the new policy includes them if their living conditions are not rapidly improved? That is why the support of the international community in this difficult period is of supreme importance. We make an urgent appeal to the international community to ensure that the level and quality of their commitments will respond to the insistent expectations of our population and to the new democratic changes.I should like to begin by congratulating Ambassador Jan Eliasson, on behalf of the delegation of Morocco, on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this historic session and by wishing him success in his noble task. I should also like to express to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, Foreign Minister of the brotherly State of Gabon, our sincere thanks and profound appreciation for his efforts as President of the General Assembly during the fifty- ninth session and for the patience and dedication that he showed in his excellent conduct of the preparatory work for the High-level Plenary Meeting, thereby ensuring the success of the summit, which marked the sixtieth anniversary of our Organization. I should also like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, for his commendable efforts to improve the structure of the Organization and enhance its working methods and effectiveness. Last week’s summit meeting was a key event in the history of the United Nations and marked a turning point in the Organization’s activities, not just because of the impressive number of very distinguished participants, but also because of the importance of the outcome document (resolution 60/1), which was adopted as a result of the contribution of all members. In this regard, the Kingdom of Morocco supports the proposals submitted by the Secretary-General with a view to ensuring follow-up of the outcomes of the various international conferences on development issues. Although it failed to meet our expectations, the summit outcome document nevertheless reiterated our international commitments; it paves the way for strengthening the role and effectiveness of the Organization and adapting it to meet the new challenges posed by global developments. The Kingdom of Morocco would like to reaffirm its readiness to contribute to the implementation of the recommendations of the summit and to participate in the international effort to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). My country has undertaken a number of proactive national initiatives relating to ensuring respect for human rights and the establishment of an integrated and modern society in which women play an active role in development. Many of these are set out in the National Initiative for Human Development, announced by His Majesty King Mohammed VI on 18 May. That initiative reflects Morocco’s willingness to create a development model based on a successful association of modernity, democratization and economic openness. That model is also aimed at achieving a sustained improvement in our human development index, within a spirit of collective participation, solidarity, equal opportunity, the dissemination of knowledge and the provision of basic social services. The end of the era of ideological division and the rise of a new world order has called the attention of the international community to new challenges posed by the scourges of terrorism, hunger, poverty, backwardness, illiteracy and pandemic disease, as well as the increasing number of refugees fleeing from the disasters of war and destruction and the growing number of ethnic, tribal and religious conflicts and separatist trends. Since the events of 11 September 2001, the international community has grown increasingly aware of the threat of terrorism and of the need to combat it by all available means and to address its root causes and underlying motives. The Kingdom of Morocco, which has itself been subjected to the scourge of terrorism, has participated 4 in efforts to combat it through the elaboration of legal instruments and practical arrangements at the national, regional and international levels. During this session, the Kingdom of Morocco will continue to contribute to efforts to adopt a comprehensive convention against terrorism, thereby complementing its participation in the elaboration of the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. As for development challenges, our African continent is the only region that will not be able to achieve the MDGs within the specified time frame unless the international community provides full support. In this regard, African countries acknowledge that they must rely, first and foremost, on their own human and material resources. However, Africa’s economic take-off can be achieved only through an efficient and realistic partnership involving all the parties concerned, including donor countries and international and regional organizations. That partnership must be founded on an integrated and sustained process that benefits the existing North- South and South-South cooperation mechanisms. Convinced of the necessity to collectively combat the ills that are besetting our African continent, Morocco has always taken the lead in supporting and encouraging any initiative aimed at freeing the African peoples from their stark predicament. Thus, on more than one occasion, the Kingdom of Morocco has voiced full support for the New Partnership for Africa’s Development as an integrated and comprehensive action plan designed to solve the persistent economic and social problems that have plagued our continent since the era of independence. On the other hand, Morocco has always shown its readiness to contribute to conflict resolution in Africa by bringing together belligerent parties and by strengthening the ties of brotherhood and good neighbourliness among the States of western Africa, as well as through the participation of the Royal Armed Forces of Morocco in peacekeeping operations conducted under the auspices of the United Nations in Africa. The Kingdom of Morocco welcomes the decision by the Group of Eight to cancel the debt of least developed African countries. I would also like to recall that His Majesty King Mohammed VI was among the first to initiate such a move. During the first European Union-Africa Summit, which was held in Cairo, His Majesty announced the cancellation of the debt of least developed African countries, opened Morocco’s market to their products and granted them customs exemptions. The success of Africa’s economic take-off remains contingent upon the success of regional integration throughout the continent. The Kingdom of Morocco therefore believes that the reactivation of the Maghreb Arab Union is a political imperative, an economic necessity and a historical reality that responds to the aspirations of the peoples of the region and reflects the expectations of our partners, especially those in the Mediterranean region, with whom we are striving to reinforce our partnership as we prepare to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the Barcelona process. For those reasons, Morocco is working to reactivate the Union’s machinery and to remove any obstacles that might hinder its relaunching on a sound, constructive and meaningful basis. In this context, Morocco would like to reaffirm its steadfast commitment to working closely with the Secretary- General and his Personal Envoy and Special Representative, as well as with all parties concerned, in order to break the current stalemate and reach a negotiated political solution to the artificial conflict with respect to the Moroccan Sahara. Because of its geostrategic nature, that conflict between two brotherly neighbouring countries, Morocco and Algeria, requires the involvement of our brethren in Algeria in a serious and constructive dialogue with a view to putting an end to it once and for all. His Majesty King Mohammed VI, in his most recent Throne Day speech, affirmed Morocco’s willingness “to engage in serious negotiations with a view to reaching a final solution that would win United Nations support and grant the inhabitants of the southern provinces autonomy within the sovereignty of the Kingdom and its territorial and national integrity”. Pending the involvement of all parties in that negotiation process, it remains urgent to follow up on the humanitarian aspect of the problem by disclosing the fate of all Moroccan missing persons and prisoners. The International Committee of the Red Cross was unable to establish contacts with those persons or to discover their place of detention. In addition, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees should be allowed to undertake a fair and 5 free census of Moroccan citizens being held in the Tindouf camps in Algeria, who should be freed and allowed to exercise their right to return to their homeland. The Arab region, which continues to experience recurrent crises as well as new ones equally violent and fierce, looks to the Organization and to other international and regional actors for their assistance in solving them. In that regard, we hope that the ray of optimism that shone recently in the Middle East, prompting us to engage in cautious optimism, will be supported by serious and brave measures that will revive the peace process and put it back on track. The Kingdom of Morocco welcomed the withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and considers it an important and positive decision on the path towards full implementation of the road map. Morocco, which has always striven tirelessly and effectively to keep open the channels of communication and dialogue among the peoples of the Middle East, reaffirms its active commitment to promoting a peaceful solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict that will lead to the establishment of a final, lasting and comprehensive peace in the Middle East through the reactivation of the road map, the guaranteed establishment of a free Palestinian State with Al-Quds as its capital, and the withdrawal of Israel from the occupied Syrian and Lebanese territories. His Majesty King Mohammed VI, Chairman of the Al-Quds Committee, has reaffirmed his resolve to continue to actively pursue and support all peace efforts and to work to preserve the Arab and Islamic identity of Al-Quds Al-Sharif and its status as a place of coexistence and tolerance among the three revealed religions. With regard to the situation in the brotherly State of Iraq, the Kingdom of Morocco, although appreciating highly the continuous and intensive efforts to re-establish stability, peace and reconstruction in Iraq, and although following the recent political progress with great interest, affirms that the participation of all constituents of Iraqi society is needed to build the democratic institutions of the new Iraqi State and to preserve its national unity. Moreover, the international community must help the Iraqi people to overcome the ongoing crisis by creating the conditions necessary for peace and stability. Reforming the United Nations to enable it to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century, restructuring its organs and bodies and updating their mandates will require not only that its working methods be improved, but also that the Organization regain its natural and leading role as a framework for constructive dialogue and as a forum for creative interaction among the various intellectual currents and religious and cultural trends. In that context, Morocco commends the Secretary-General for his decision to appoint a High- level Group for the Alliance of Civilizations and to establish a new cultural world order based on tolerance and coexistence. We support diversity and unity of visions and goals as contributions to meeting the challenges of the new millennium.Allow me first of all to pay tribute to Mr. Jean Ping, who guided the work of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly with great energy. He had the tremendous responsibility of negotiating the United Nations reforms adopted by our heads of State or Government on Friday, 16 September. We commend him on his courage, his faith in the future of the United Nations and the wisdom and vision with which he discharged his functions. The tasks facing Mr. Jan Eliasson are inspiring and crucially important. His presidency marks the beginning of the implementation phase of the major decisions taken by our heads of State or Government on reform. We are grateful to him for focusing the work of the sixtieth session on this topic. My delegation has another good reason to be pleased at seeing Mr. Eliasson presiding over our work: the importance his country attaches to development issues and its very sizeable contribution to the efforts of the international community to eliminate poverty throughout the world. Our two countries, Benin and Sweden, successfully co-chaired the General Assembly’s Open-ended Working Group on an Agenda for Development. All of this bodes well for this session. The eradication of poverty tops the priority list of the Benin Government. In this context, we negotiated and adopted, with the Bretton Woods institutions, a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. Its effective implementation, jointly with our Government’s plan of action and our national studies on long-term prospects, entitled “Benin 2005: ALAFIA”, should set into motion progress that will bring about the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. However, it will still be necessary for the efforts carried out with our bilateral and multilateral development partners to converge to improve the situation in the seven critical areas for making aid to least developed countries effective. These are: substantially reducing the external debt burden of least developed countries so they can devote greater domestic resources to eliminating poverty; strengthening institutional capacity to attract foreign direct investment and develop free enterprise; diversifying the destinations of foreign direct investment; promoting public sector/private sector partnership in least developed countries to promote rural development; strengthening the impact of remittances from our diaspora; the promotion of South- South investment to improve the availability of products on markets; and, strengthening the potential of microcredit to eliminate poverty. We are gratified at the decision taken in Gleneagles, Scotland, by the Group of Eight (G-8) to completely cancel the debt of 18 highly indebted poor countries, 13 of which are least developed countries. We urgently appeal to donor countries to seriously consider the possibility of extending the benefit of this new positive measure to all least developed countries. The Coordinating Bureau of the Least Developed Countries, which my country has had the honour of chairing since 2002, will continue consulting with 12 international financial institutions and development partners in close cooperation with the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States, to bring about meaningful progress in all these areas. This is the context of the ministerial conference of the least developed countries on remittances from migrant workers. The conference will be held in Cotonou, Benin, in February 2006, not in October 2005 as originally planned. In the context of this conference, the 50 least developed countries are planning to set up an international monitoring body for funds transfers by migrant workers; it will be open to all States. We urge all United Nations Member States to support this initiative, which is intended to strengthen the impact of these transferred resources on the development of recipient countries. In addition to these considerations that directly affect the least developed countries, there is an urgent need to promote and give appropriate weight to the development agenda within the context of multilateral trade negotiations in the World Trade Organization and to translate into deeds the firm commitments by the countries concerned on the elimination of agricultural subsidies, in particular those for cotton, to which my country attaches particular importance. Such a measure would remove a considerable handicap on developing countries’ efforts to fully take advantage of their comparative advantages in order to become fully integrated into the world economy. We reaffirm that it is indispensable that access to world markets be coupled with measures to strengthen the supply of products from developing countries through adequate support for the local processing of commodities. No initiative, no measure, no activity and no decision in the field of development can be successful without peace. It is of particular concern that, on essential matters such as disarmament and non- proliferation of nuclear weapons, the United Nations cannot forge the required consensus to secure the long- term survival of our planet in view of the potential for self-destruction that has built up. These questions should be considered calmly, with the higher interests of humankind in mind, setting aside the particular interest of any country in pursuing some hypothetical power that would reduce security for each and every one of us. Benin has no objection to the peaceful use of nuclear power to serve the energy needs of the planet, but it feels that any effort to divert peaceful programmes to military programmes runs counter to a vision of collective security based on promoting disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Our heads of State or Government decided to confirm the Security Council’s key role as the organ with primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. We urge all members of the Assembly to commit themselves to ensuring that the Security Council is expanded to make it more representative and better able to counter old and new threats to international peace and security. In the 60 years of existence of the United Nations, the Security Council has with varying degrees of success, worked to manage and settle armed conflicts. It has been able to respond to breaches of international peace and security, but it has not always been able to take action to stop or reverse events that have led to an explosion of violence or armed conflict. Given the loss of human life and the massive destruction of property as a result of current threats, it is high time for the Security Council to attach higher priority to conflict prevention, in the spirit of Article 34 of the Charter, which states that “The Security Council may investigate any dispute, or any situation which might lead to international friction or give rise to a dispute, in order to determine whether the continuance of the dispute or situation is likely to endanger the maintenance of international peace and security”. If we look at the spirit and the letter of this provision, the Security Council is definitely competent to analyse and monitor situations involving the risk of conflict or a breach of the peace anywhere in the world and to become actively involved in managing crises before conflict breaks out or threats materialize. It is in that light that we must view Security Council resolution 1625 (2005), adopted at the 14 September 2005 Council summit at the initiative of the three African members of the Security Council, led by my country, Benin. In the context of Security Council reform, the General Assembly should consider the subject of a proactive approach and reflect on how to structure support mechanisms in order to enable the Council to effectively play its role in the prevention of conflicts and of threats to international peace and security. 13 Peace remains an invaluable and incalculable good. We share the concerns expressed recently by the Secretary-General at the launch of his Alliance of Civilizations initiative. That constructive initiative should be made part of the framework of activities to counter threats to our world, including terrorism, whose predominant religious ties lend credence to theories of a clash of civilizations leading to certain chaos. Benin supports the Alliance of Civilizations initiative, which aims to restore peace in our hearts and among religions so that weapons will fall silent and our peoples will be able to express their aspirations for peace. We join the quest for peace of those peoples who lack peace today. We express our solidarity with peoples suffering armed conflicts in Africa, the Middle East, Asia, Latin America and Europe. The Organization must redouble its efforts to help them procure national concord, understanding and cohesion. In that context, we are pursuing a thoroughgoing campaign against the recruitment and the use of children in armed conflicts. Now that the Security Council has adopted its resolution 1612 (2005), the General Assembly, for its part, should establish an open-ended working group to consider proposals for actions to redefine that scourge as a crime against humanity instead of a war crime. We are counting on everyone’s support to make that initiative a reality. In the Middle East, the withdrawal of the occupying Power from the Gaza Strip and part of the West Bank brings us closer, fortunately, to our common vision of an independent State of Palestine living side by side with the State of Israel within secure and internationally recognized borders. We believe that the Quartet’s road map can lead the Israeli and Palestinian peoples to that goal. We call upon their leaders to remain committed to the route of peace. We ask the same of Iraqi leaders and urge them to spare no effort to ensure that all Iraqi communities participate in the transition process leading to the restoration of peace and the strengthening of the country’s unity. We make the same appeal to Afghanistan, Liberia and Côte d’Ivoire, among others. In the same spirit of dialogue, we welcome the significant progress made in resolving the conflicts of West Africa through the cooperation between the United Nations and the Economic Community of West African States aimed at promoting dynamic peacebuilding processes for the gradual return of normality in the countries affected by conflict and for preventing the spread of conflict, through an integrated, regional approach. We invite all Ivorian parties to overcome their differences of view and give peace and stability a chance in the West African subregion. The holding of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region and the remarkable success achieved by the transition processes in the Central African Republic and Burundi have restored the prospects of the entire region. We encourage the countries concerned to reach a regional agreement for peace, security, good governance and development in the framework of the second regional summit, to be held in Nairobi, and to scrupulously implement that agreement in order to promote peace, stability and prosperity in the region. Those regional initiatives require enhanced assistance from the international community if the transition in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is to be a success. In that context, Benin intends to pursue its policy of active participation in peacekeeping operations. Our country stands ready to increase its contribution to the international community’s efforts in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in order to support the democratic transition process under way. In East Africa, the United Nations and the African Union have formed an unprecedented partnership to restore peace in the Sudan and put an end to the humanitarian crisis in Darfur, in the spirit of Chapter VIII of the Charter. Such a partnership is essential also in Somalia. In that context, it is in the interest of the United Nations to assist the African Union in establishing and organizing its peacekeeping capacities, in particular by strengthening the structures for planning and for training national and subregional contingents of the African standby force. Another essential element to which we attach great importance, and which we hope to see realized promptly, relates to the decision taken by our heads of State or Government on the establishment of a standing police force. The establishment of such a force should take into consideration the need for linguistic balance in accordance with short-term and medium-term deployment needs. The modalities of the force’s composition should be defined promptly. To that end, we propose carrying out a rapid evaluation of present worldwide human resources and of Member States’ 14 capacity to train police officers. A rational process in that area would consist of taking best advantage of those capacities and giving all Member States an equal opportunity for participation in the new force. Beyond peacemaking action, the need to help countries emerging from armed conflict remain on the path of peace and overcome the risk of relapse constitutes a real challenge to which we have adequately responded through our reflections on the role of the United Nations. That is the reason behind the Peacebuilding Commission. The consensus on this question does honour to the Organization. The Commission must become operational as soon as possible to strengthen action to assist countries that have undertaken particularly difficult democratic transitions, such as Burundi, the Central African Republic and Guinea-Bissau, if their Governments request such assistance. Countries facing an ongoing state of social emergency can improve their chances for lasting stability only if the international community mobilizes the necessary resources to help restore a minimum of normality by ensuring that those States can exercise their sovereign rights in the areas of security and the provision of essential social services such as health care, child education, transport and access to financial resources. The success of disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programmes in all their aspects is decisive for making a peace process irreversible and for guarding against the risk of the spread of conflict caused by the dispersion of former combatants that have not successfully reintegrated into productive civil society. The international community must ensure that the reintegration component of those programmes also receives adequate financing. In the same context, the Human Rights Council must take its place in the machinery of the United Nations. Its mandate, size, structure and operational procedures must take into account the requirements of representativity, credibility and effectiveness by drawing all lessons from the experience and the practices of the Commission on Human Rights, which it is intended to replace. In that regard, the new Council must become the preferred instrument for identifying cases in which the international community should exercise its responsibility to protect populations. In that regard, the Human Rights Council also has a crucial role to play as an early-warning structure within the United Nations system and as a key element of its conflict-prevention machinery. We cannot conclude without underlining our full support for the excellent idea of the Government of Sweden to create a network of heads of State and other world leaders to monitor effective implementation of United Nations reform.Mr. President, I am pleased to greet and congratulate you on your election, which will assure the success of these debates. I am also pleased to greet Secretary- General Kofi Annan, whose efforts to preserve peace and promote solidarity among the world’s peoples are recognized and appreciated. My country, Bolivia, located at the heart of South America, has just overcome, with sacrifice and deprivation, a profound political crisis. The maturity and the democratic spirit of my people led to a transition period to ensure institutional continuity and to initiate a process to legitimize, through a universal vote, the election of the country’s authorities. Furthermore, this process had as its goal to establish governability and to reaffirm faith in the citizens’ right to elect their Government and the parliamentary representatives of their choice. During the electoral process that Bolivia is presently undergoing, a new design for a pioneer nation in securing its liberty and independence will be defined. The elections to take place at the end of this year will bring about a new and unprecedented political scenario, a process to carry out a constituent assembly and the people’s decision to put into practice regional autonomies that will lead to the establishment of a new social contract oriented towards the construction of a more organized country, forever democratic, without exclusion, as required by the Millennium Development Goals. A well-known Colombian citizen advised us that only with a new look to the past may we create the possibility of another future; and only by looking creatively at our world may we catch a glimpse of the new type of order we ought to build. This vision is 5 shared by the peoples of Latin America and, of course, by Bolivians. For some time, we have been united in our effort to solve disputes by encouraging common actions so that disputing countries may look for and negotiate peaceful solutions to their differences. It is also true that in this America with profound democratic roots and ties of brotherhood and solidarity among the peoples, there are still unresolved situations, such as Bolivia’s landlocked status. At the beginning of the twenty-first century, the people of Bolivia and neighbouring countries should be capable of creating spaces in which open dialogue can take place, without prejudice, thereby allowing for solutions that look to the future and are not based on positions anchored in the past. We believe that it is essential to enter into negotiations with a view to consulting, responding to and serving mutual interests and reaching a definitive solution that restores Bolivia’s sovereign access to the Pacific coast. It is essential that we create an environment of trust for negotiation and agreement for that purpose. Latin America is a region in which we dream about freedom, hope for progress and the integration of our peoples, although this requires constant renewal and creativity on our part. I am convinced that we will continue with the necessary task of attaining the Millennium Development Goals set for 2015 and the subsequent indicators for measuring social progress, although in the case of Bolivia we may face difficulties that will require us to focus on inequality and exclusion, violent conflict, intolerance, unfair land distribution, unemployment, extreme poverty and malnutrition. The Bolivian people fully agree that we need to lay a foundation for ensuring progress with equity. Thus, a global effort is required if we are to eradicate poverty. Although significant progress has been made with regard to such indicators for sustainability, institutional improvements and economic stability, the Government of Bolivia is concerned about the deadlines that have been set, and urges the international community to consider putting in place better terms and conditions. Harmony among peoples cannot be achieved fully in a world in which security is put to the test every day by terrorist threats against innocent people and against the systems chosen by peoples who cherish the conviction that the only way of safeguarding mutual respect and harmony in society is through the exercise of democracy. Bolivia condemns terrorism and is actively combating that scourge afflicting humankind. Our Organization, which is committed to promoting the civilized coexistence of the peoples of the world, is 60 years old. Founded by 45 States, it now has 191 Members, which support and put into practice the guiding principles of our global community. A world without the United Nations is unthinkable in either theory or practice, for it is guiding us towards a common destiny and away from such current tribulations as poverty, terrorism and violence. Bolivia recognizes that, throughout the 60 years of this Organization’s life, it has benefited from valuable cooperation efforts. Indeed, certain problems are shared by many countries. Thus international cooperation cannot be considered merely an act of solidarity. Cooperation must be a pillar of peace, since one of the threats that we are facing is increasing inequality leading to the marginalization of vast sectors of our societies. This brings dissatisfaction, which frequently gives rise to dangerous social tensions. It is not merely a question of achieving apparent economic stability. Rather, we must significantly improve quality of life indices, both out of basic respect for human rights and because of the need for equity and justice. Bolivia reaffirms its commitment to the principles of the United Nations, to peace and to democratic institutions. We believe that the United Nations is the highest forum for universal interaction among countries and individuals, and we also believe that its institutions and entities must be adapted and reformed if it is to achieve its objectives. The interrelationship between development, security and human rights within a framework of democratic values is an expression of today’s interdependent world, and of multilateralism, which reaffirms the leading role of the United Nations and our ongoing determination to promote social progress and to improve living standards within a broader concept of freedom. In this context, Bolivia believes that the recent commitment made at the world summit to adopt, in the near future, a United Nations declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples will encourage social integration and peaceful national coexistence. 6 Bolivia is sincere in its determination to achieve peace, solidarity and the well-being of all, to protect the rule of law and to secure justice and liberty. Ultimately, we are guided by democracy — a system that can be improved upon, and a way of life.Today, we have gathered here to exchange views about the world, its future and our common responsibilities towards it. It is obvious that the future of the world is intertwined with its current state and with the prevailing trends, which exhibit signs of hope and despair. On the one hand, certain hopes and opportunities exist, and the General Assembly is convened on the basis of those hopes. Today, human thought reflects significant commonalities that provide an appropriate foundation upon which to build. With the passing of the era of agnostic philosophies, humanity is once again united in celebrating monotheism and belief in the Creator as the originator of existence. That is the common thread that binds us all together. Faith will prove to be the solution to many of todayís problems. The truth will shine the light of faith and ethics on the lives of human beings; it will prevent them from engaging in aggression, coercion and injustice; and it will guide them towards care and compassion for fellow beings. Another hope is found in the common global appreciation of the sources of knowledge. Although reason, experience and science are among the valuable sources of knowledge, the darkness of the Middle Ages prevented major portions of the Western world from appreciating them. This reactionary tendency deprived many of access to various scientific findings and knowledge and led to the exclusion of other sources of knowledge, namely God and knowledge based on revelation from the life of human beings in the West ó divine knowledge that was disseminated by such prophets as Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus and 5 Mohammad. Today, agnostic thinking is on the decline and humanity is equally enamoured of religion, science, knowledge and spirituality. This is an auspicious beginning. Divine prophets teach us about proper regard for the exalted state of human beings on earth. The human being is blessed with dignity, manifested most importantly in being the viceroy of the Almighty on earth. The Almighty placed humans on earth to develop it, to institutionalize justice, to overcome their egoistic tendencies and to praise no lord but the Almighty. Faith and good deeds can bring deliverance and the good life, even in this world. Attaining this depend on human will, that is, the will of each and every one of us. We must heed the call of our common primordial nature and achieve the realization of this good life. On the other hand, the prevalence of military domination; increasing poverty; the growing gap between rich and poor countries; violence as a means to resolve crises; the spread of terrorism, especially State terrorism; the existence and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction; the pervasive lack of honesty in inter-State relations; and disregard for the equal rights of peoples and nations in international relations constitute some of the challenges and threats facing us. Although these challenges are very real, we believe we are not predestined to experience them. Our common will not only can change this course but, in fact, can lead us to a life filled with hope and prosperity. Divine revelation teaches us that 'The Almighty changes the fate of no people unless they themselves show a will for change' (The Holy Koran, XIII:11). How can we influence the future of the world? When and how will peace, tranquillity and well-being for all come about? These are the fundamental questions before us. We believe that a sustainable order - in which peace and tranquillity can flourish - can be realized only on the basis of the two pillars of justice and spirituality. The more human society departs from justice and spirituality, the greater the insecurity it will face, so much so that a relatively small crisis - such as a natural disaster - can lead to various aberrations and inhumane behaviour. Unfortunately, the world is rife with discrimination and poverty. Discrimination produces hatred, war and terrorism. They all share the common root of a lack of spirituality coupled with injustice. Justice is about equal rights; the equitable distribution of resources in the territories of different States; the equality of all before the law; and respect for international agreements. Justice recognizes the right of all to tranquillity, peace and a dignified life. Justice rejects intimidation and double standards. As the eminent daughter of the Prophet of Islam said, 'Justice brings tranquillity to our hearts.' Today, the world longs for the establishment of such justice. If humanity heeds the call of its primordial nature with firm resolve, justice will follow. That is what the Almighty has promised and what all people of goodwill from all religions are waiting for. If the prevailing discourse of global relations becomes one of justice and spirituality, then durable peace will be guaranteed. Conversely, if international relations are defined without justice or spirituality and are void of moral considerations, then mechanisms for promoting confidence and peace will remain insufficient and ineffective. If some, relying on their superior military and economic might, attempt to expand their rights and privileges, they will be performing a great disservice to the cause of peace and, in fact, will fuel the arms race and spread insecurity, fear and deception. If global trends continue to serve the interests of small, influential groups, even the interests of the citizens of powerful countries will be jeopardized, as was seen during recent crises and natural disasters such as the recent tragedy of Hurricane Katrina. Today my nation calls on other nations and Governments to move forward towards a durable tranquillity and peace based on justice and spirituality. The Islamic Republic of Iran was born of a movement based on the pure, primordial nature of a people who rose up to regain their dignity, esteem and human rights. The Islamic revolution toppled a regime which had been put in place through a coup and that was being supported by those who claim to be advocates of democracy and human rights. For 25 years they thwarted the aspirations of the nation to development and progress through the intimidation and 6 torture of the population and submission and subservience to outsiders. The Islamic Republic of Iran is the manifestation of true democracy in the region. The discourse of the Iranian nation is focused on respect for the rights of human beings and on a quest for tranquillity, peace, justice and development for all through monotheism. For eight years, Saddam's regime imposed a massive war of aggression and occupation on my people. It employed the most heinous weapons of mass destruction - including chemical weapons - against Iranians and Iraqis alike. But who, in fact, armed Saddam with those weapons? What was the reaction of those who now claim to fight against weapons of mass destruction to the use of chemical weapons back then? The world is witness to the fact that the Islamic Republic of Iran, because of its humanitarian principles - even during the most trying of times and when it was sustaining the highest number of casualties - never allowed itself to use such weapons. Thousands of nuclear warheads stockpiled in various locations, coupled with programmes to further develop these inhuman weapons, have created a new atmosphere of repression and the rule of the machines of war, threatening the international community and even the citizens of the countries that possess them. Ironically, those that have actually used nuclear weapons and continue to produce, stockpile and extensively test such weapons; that have used depleted uranium bombs and bullets against tens, perhaps hundreds, of thousands of Iraqis and Kuwaitis, and even their own soldiers and those of their allies, afflicting them with incurable diseases; that blatantly violate their obligations under the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT); that have refrained from signing the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT); and that have armed the Zionist occupation regime with weapons of mass destruction ó they are not only refusing to remedy their past actions, but, in clear breach of the NPT, are trying to prevent other countries from acquiring the technology necessary to produce nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. All of these problems emanate from the fact that the elements of justice and spirituality are missing in the way powerful Governments conduct their affairs with other nations. After 11 September, a particular radical group was accused of terrorist activities, although it was never explained how such huge intelligence-gathering and security organizations had failed to prevent such an extensive and well-planned operation. Why have Powers that not so long ago were supporting the activities of such groups in Afghanistan, thereby portraying themselves as supporters of human rights and of the Afghan people, overnight turned into their most fierce critics? Are we to believe that their benefactors - those very same hegemonic Powers - have lost control? If so, would it not be better for those Powers to adopt an honest and transparent approach to the international community, provide precise information about the main elements and their weapons and financial support system, and accept responsibility for their inhuman actions against nations and countries, thereby assisting peoples and nations in addressing the roots of terrorism correctly, wisely and sincerely? We must endeavour to achieve sustainable tranquillity and peace based on justice and spirituality. Terrorism and weapons of mass destruction are two major threats facing the international community. The Islamic Republic of Iran, as one of the main victims of terrorism and chemical weapons, fully appreciates the difficulties involved in combating these menaces. Today, the most serious challenge is that the culprits are assuming the role of the prosecutor. Even more dangerous is that certain parties, relying on their power and wealth, are trying to impose a climate of intimidation and injustice on the world. They are bullying others, while using their huge media resources to portray themselves as defenders of freedom, democracy and human rights. People around the world are fully aware of what is happening in occupied Palestine. Women and children are being murdered and teenagers are being taken prisoner. Houses are being demolished and farms are being burned down. Yet when the people of Palestine resist these conditions, they are accused of terrorism. At the same time, the occupier, which does not abide by any principles, terror being part of its stated and regular policy, enjoys the support of the previously mentioned Governments. Let me be still more blunt. State terrorism is being supported by those who claim to fight terrorism. How can one talk about human rights and at the same time blatantly deny many people the inalienable 7 right of access to science and technology, which have applications in the fields of medicine, industrial production and energy, and hinder their progress and development by means of force and intimidation? Can nations be deprived of scientific and technological progress through the threat of use of force and on the basis of mere allegations of possible military diversion? We believe that all countries and nations are entitled to technological and scientific advancement in all fields, and particularly to the peaceful technology to produce nuclear fuel. Such access cannot be restricted to a few, depriving most nations and thereby establishing economic monopolies which are then used as an instrument to expand domination. We have gathered here to defend human rights in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and to prevent certain Powers from claiming that some countries have more rights or that some countries do not have the right to enjoy their legitimate rights. We must not, at the beginning of the twenty-first century, revert to the logic of the Dark Ages and try once again to deny societies access to scientific and technological advances. The United Nations must be the symbol of democracy and of the equal rights of nations. If we talk about the equal rights of nations in political forums, we must talk of the same concept in this forum as well. Similarly, if we talk about the right of sovereignty, then all nations must be allowed to exercise their rights on an equal footing and in a democratic process. The United Nations will be able to be the standard-bearer of democracy in the world when it, itself, is a manifestation of democratic process. I reiterate that sustainable tranquillity and peace can only be built on justice and spirituality. The Islamic Republic of Iran is a symbol of true democracy. All officials, including the Leader, President and members of the Islamic Consultative Assembly, city and village councils are elected through the vote of the citizens. The Islamic Republic of Iran has held 27 national elections in 27 years. This showcases a vibrant and dynamic society in which people participate broadly in political life. Because of its key importance and influence in the important and strategic Middle East region, the Islamic Republic of Iran is committed to contributing actively to the promotion of peace and stability in that region. The Saddam and the Taliban regimes were both the products of foreign Powers. The people of Afghanistan and of Iraq know very well who supported those two regimes. Today, to establish peace and security in the region, foreign occupation forces must leave and completely hand over the political and economic sovereignty of those two countries to their peoples. The Islamic Republic of Iran will continue to provide full and comprehensive support to the people of Iraq and Afghanistan and to their elected Governments and will actively help them establish order and security. My country will continue to expand its sincere cooperation and interaction with them. In Palestine, a sustainable peace will be possible through justice, an end to discrimination, an end to the occupation of Palestinian land, the return of all Palestinian refugees and the establishment of a democratic Palestinian State with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. Today, more than ever, nations need constructive, positive and honest cooperation and interaction in order to enjoy a dignified, tranquil and peaceful life based on justice and spirituality. Let us enter into a collective covenant to realize this legitimate aspiration of our nations. Here, I should like to talk briefly about the approach and initiative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on the nuclear issue. Nuclear weapons and their proliferation, on the one hand, and attempts to impose an apartheid regime on access to peaceful nuclear energy, on the other, are two major threats to international tranquillity and peace. Keeping in mind that in past years no serious efforts complemented by practical mechanisms have been made to move towards full disarmament and, more specifically, to implement the decisions and outcomes of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) review conferences of 1995 and 2000, I suggest that the General Assembly, as the most inclusive United Nations organ, mandate an ad hoc committee to compile and submit a comprehensive report on possible practical mechanisms and strategies for complete disarmament. Such a committee should also be asked to investigate how, in violation of the NPT, material, technology and equipment for nuclear weapons were transferred to the Zionist regime, and to propose practical measures for the establishment of a 8 nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East. Some powerful States practise a discriminatory approach against access by NPT States parties to material, equipment, and peaceful nuclear technology. In doing so, they intend to impose a nuclear apartheid. We are concerned that once certain powerful States completely control nuclear energy resources and technology, they will deny access to other States and thus deepen the divide between powerful countries and the rest of the international community. When that happens, we shall be divided into light and dark countries. Regrettably, in the past 30 years, no effective measure has been implemented to facilitate the exercise of the legally recognized right of NPT States parties to have access to and to use peaceful nuclear energy in accordance with article IV. Therefore, the General Assembly should ask the International Atomic Energy Agency - in accordance with article II of its Statute - to report on violations by specific countries that have hindered the implementation of the above article and also to produce practical strategies for its renewed implementation. It is particularly important to note that the peaceful use of nuclear energy without possession of the nuclear fuel cycle is an empty proposition. Countries and peoples that rely for their fuel on coercive powers and stop at nothing to further their interests may indeed become totally dependent on nuclear power plants. No popularly elected, responsible Government would consider such a situation to be in the interest of its people. The history of dependence on oil in oil-rich countries under domination is an experience that no independent country would be willing to repeat. Those hegemonic Powers that consider the scientific and technological progress of independent and free nations to be a challenge to their monopoly on those important instruments of power and which do not want to see such achievements in other countries, have misrepresented Iranís healthy and fully safeguarded technological endeavours in the nuclear field as a pursuit of nuclear weapons. That is nothing but a propaganda ploy. The Islamic Republic of Iran is presenting in good faith its proposal for constructive interaction and a just dialogue. However, if some try to impose their will on the Iranian people by resorting to a language of force and threats against Iran, we will reconsider our entire approach to the nuclear issue. Allow me, as the elected President of the Iranian people, to outline the other main elements of my countryís initiative regarding the nuclear issue. First, the Islamic Republic of Iran reaffirms its previously and repeatedly stated position that, in accordance with our religious principles, the pursuit of nuclear weapons is prohibited. Secondly, the Islamic Republic of Iran believes that it is necessary to revitalize the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and, as I proposed earlier, to create an ad hoc committee to combat nuclear weapons and abolish the apartheid that exists in the field of peaceful nuclear technology. Thirdly, the fuel cycle of the Islamic Republic of Iran is not technically different from that of other countries that have peaceful nuclear technology. Therefore, as a further confidence-building measure and in order to provide the greatest degree of transparency, the Islamic Republic of Iran is prepared to engage in serious partnerships with the private and public sectors of other countries in the implementation of a uranium enrichment programme in Iran. That represents the most far-reaching step - beyond all requirements of the NPT - proposed by Iran as a further confidence-building measure. Fourthly, in keeping with Iranís inalienable right to have access to a nuclear fuel cycle, continued interaction and technical and legal cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency will be the centrepiece of our nuclear policy. The initiation and the continuation of negotiations with other countries will be carried out in the context of Iranís interaction with the Agency. With that in mind, I have directed the relevant Iranian officials to compile the legal and technical details of Iranís nuclear approach, based on the following considerations. First, international precedent tells us that nuclear fuel delivery contracts are unreliable, and no legally binding international document or instrument exists to guarantee the delivery of nuclear fuel. On many occasions such bilateral contracts have either been suspended or stopped altogether for political reasons. Therefore, the Islamic Republic of Iran, in its pursuit of peaceful nuclear technology, considers it to be within its legitimate rights to receive objective guarantees for uranium enrichment in the nuclear fuel cycle. 9 Secondly, in its negotiations with the European Union three, Iran has tried in earnest to demonstrate the solid and legitimate foundations of its nuclear activity in the context of the NPT and to establish mutual trust. The selection of our negotiating partners and the continuation of negotiations with the European Union three will be commensurate with the requirements of our cooperation with the Agency regarding the non-diversion of the process of uranium enrichment to non-peaceful purposes, within the framework of the NPT. In that context, several proposals have been presented that can be considered in the context of the negotiations. Thirdly, the discriminatory approach with respect to the NPT, focusing on the obligations of States parties while disregarding their rights under the Treaty, should cease. As the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, I assure the Assembly that my country will do everything in its power to contribute to global tranquillity and peace, based on the two values of spirituality and justice, and on the principle of equal rights of all peoples and nations. My country will interact and cooperate constructively with the international community to face the challenges before us. From the beginning of time, humanity has longed for the day when justice, peace, equality and compassion would envelop the world. All of us can contribute to the establishment of such a world. When that day comes, the ultimate promise of all divine religions will be fulfilled with the emergence of a perfect human being who is heir to all prophets and pious men. He will lead the world to justice and absolute peace. Almighty Lord, I pray to you to hasten the appearance of your last repository - the promised one, that perfect and pure human being, the one who will fill this world with justice and peace. O Lord, include us among his companions, followers and those who serve his cause.At the outset I would like to congratulate you upon your unanimous election as President of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. I am confident that with your experience and diplomatic skills you will guide our deliberations to a successful outcome. I would also like to convey our great appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, President of the fifty-ninth session of the Assembly, for the efficient manner in which he presided over our work as well as for the fine accomplishments recorded during the session. Sixty years after its creation, the United Nations, our only multilateral Organization, is at a crossroads. When the Organization was established, the promotion of peace and security, as well as that of economic and social development, were its main objectives. It was then conceived to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war and insecurity, to reduce and eradicate poverty and to move towards economic prosperity for all. Today, the world is still filled with conflicts, violence, insecurity, hunger, poverty and despair. We have therefore every reason to act collectively to reform and strengthen this multilateral institution to enable it to effectively address the many complex challenges the world is now facing. In this reform process, revitalizing the General Assembly has now become one of the crucial issues for consideration by Member States. In our opinion, the Assembly, which comprises all the Members of the United Nations, should continue to play a central role as the chief deliberative, policy-making and representative organ. It should serve as a forum for high-level policy statements, as well as for the consideration, of, inter alia, agenda items of special political importance or urgency. In order to strengthen the role and authority of the General Assembly, Member States should stress the need to fully respect and restore the balance between the principal organs of the United Nations, within their respective purviews and mandates, in accordance with the Charter. At the Millennium Summit in 2000, the leaders of the States Members of the United Nations resolved to strive for the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, particularly nuclear weapons. In this regard, we regret that the seventh Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), held in New York from 2 to 27 May 2005, was unable to reach consensus on the substantive questions relating to the three pillars of the Treaty. The Lao People's Democratic Republic is of the view that all States parties should remain committed to the NPT and believes that it should continue to have cornerstone status in the context of global disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The world economy continues to be characterized by slow and uneven growth and instability. Globalization may offer a great many opportunities to a number of countries. However, it also presents numerous challenges and risks for the developing world, particularly the most vulnerable groups, namely, the least developed countries and the landlocked developing countries. In reality, the process of globalization among and within countries has not produced equal benefits. The gap between the developed and developing world is widening, and we are all greatly concerned about increased poverty in many developing countries. In order for developing countries to reap the benefits of globalization, an enabling external economic environment for development is required. To that end, we should all strive to achieve greater coherence among the international trading, monetary and financial systems. Among the most vulnerable groups, the landlocked developing countries deserve special attention. The Almaty Programme of Action, which was adopted in 2003, was a landmark document that set out five priority areas. The Sao Paulo Consensus, which was adopted in 2004 by the eleventh United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, recognized, among other things, that the landlocked developing countries were small and vulnerable economies. Those documents, together with the relevant General Assembly resolutions, constitute a significant achievement on which the Group of Landlocked Developing Countries is building in order to move forward in promoting its legitimate cause. In my capacity as Chairman of that Group, I appeal to the international community for sympathy and support for our endeavours. In order to strengthen unity and solidarity among the countries of the South, and as a follow-up to the 6 implementation of the Havana Programme of Action, adopted by the first South Summit in 2000, the second South Summit of the Group of 77 and China was held in Doha, Qatar, from 12 to 16 June 2005. The Doha Declaration and Plan of Action, which were adopted at the second South Summit, called for a more energetic effort to deepen and revitalize South-South cooperation, with a view to enhancing sustained economic growth and the sustainable development of the countries of the South. Last April in Jakarta, Indonesia, the Asian-African Summit was held with the objective of reinvigorating the spirit of the 1955 Bandung Conference and of charting future cooperation between the two continents towards a new Asian-African strategic partnership. That partnership, which was inaugurated at the Summit, constitutes an important building block for the further strengthening of South-South cooperation. I would like commend Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, for his tireless efforts to ensure the success of the High-level Plenary Meeting of the General Assembly. The Lao People's Democratic Republic highly values the outcome document adopted by our heads of State or Government, in which they reaffirmed the Millennium Declaration and their commitment to implementing effectively and fully the Brussels Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries and the Almaty Programme of Action: Addressing the Special Needs of Landlocked Developing Countries within a New Global Framework for Transit Transport Cooperation for Landlocked and Transit Developing Countries. Given the aspirations of the overwhelming majority of Member States, the second South Summit, held in Doha, called upon the Government of the United States to put an end to the economic, commercial and financial embargo against Cuba, which, in addition to being unilateral and contrary to the Charter, international law and the principle of good neighbourliness, is the cause of enormous material loss and economic damage to the people of Cuba. On the Korean Peninsula, we welcome the recent resumption of the six-party talks, which have yielded important progress. The Lao People's Democratic Republic expresses the hope that the concerned parties will further deploy joint efforts and undertake concrete actions based on the principles and commitments contained in the Joint Declaration of 19 September 2005 on the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free Korean Peninsula, thus contributing to the promotion of peace, security, stability and development cooperation in the wider Asia-Pacific region. In the Middle East, although the situation remains difficult and complex, a degree of progress has been made that ought to be further promoted. In order to achieve a comprehensive and lasting peace in the region, the question of Palestine in all its aspects should be resolved in accordance with international law and relevant United Nations resolutions. In this regard, the Lao People's Democratic Republic reaffirms its unwavering support for the legitimate struggle of the Palestinian people, under the leadership of the Palestine Liberation Organization, to exercise their right to self-determination, including their right to establish an independent State of Palestine living side by side with Israel. The situation in Iraq continues to be a matter of concern to the international community. It is our sincere hope that durable peace, security and stability can soon be secured in that country, paving the way for the Iraqi people to be truly the masters of their own future and destiny. The year 2005 marks the thirtieth anniversary of the proclamation of the Lao People's Democratic Republic, a historic event of great significance in the political life of the nation. In general, the national economy is continuing to grow at a sustained pace. The rate of growth reached 7.2 per cent in the period 2004- 2005. Foreign investment is on the increase, political stability, social tranquillity and security are assured and the living conditions of the people are continuing to improve. The multi-ethnic Lao people, while enjoying fundamental rights, including the right to believe or not to believe in any religion, stand firmly united in nation-building. Furthermore, the Lao People's Democratic Republic remains committed to implementing a policy aimed at establishing a State based on the rule of law so as to ensure freedom, democracy and the legitimate interests of its citizens, as well as of foreign residents and other foreigners living and working in the Lao People's Democratic Republic. Externally, the Lao People's Democratic Republic has vigorously participated in multifaceted regional and international activities aimed at fostering peace, stability, friendship and the promotion of development cooperation. One of the greatest events for the Lao 7 People's Democratic Republic was the historic hosting of the tenth Summit of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in November 2004, which was followed by the successful holding, from 24 to 29 July 2005, of the thirty-eighth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting, the post-ministerial conferences and the twelfth ASEAN Regional Forum. Those events reflect the great sense of responsibility of the multi-ethnic Lao people as a whole in the discharge of the country's chairmanship of ASEAN during the past 12 months. Furthermore, those accomplishments have significantly contributed to narrowing the development gaps within ASEAN member countries and fostering the realization of an ASEAN community. That community has three pillars: the ASEAN Security Community, the ASEAN Economic Community and the ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community, all of which are closely intertwined and mutually reinforcing for the purpose of ensuring durable peace, stability and shared prosperity in the region. ASEAN hopes that friendly countries and the United Nations will become more involved in the implementation of the Vientiane Action Programme and the ASEAN Development Fund for regional economic integration, particularly in the areas of human resource development, infrastructure, information technology and energy development. Peace cannot be achieved without development, and development in turn cannot be realized without cooperation among nations, with the United Nations playing an important catalytic role. The United Nations - the sole multilateral, universal Organization - cannot be strengthened, however, if it does not embrace, in equal measure, the concerns of all, including the small, vulnerable, and weak States, which make up the majority of its Members. In that respect, we should all remind ourselves that not only will our words and the principles we espouse be judged by future generations, but so, too, will the actions that we undertake to bring about development for the whole of humanity.A few weeks ago, a young Muslim lawyer in Singapore told me about a recent experience he had had in an East Asian airport. Unlike others holding Singaporean passports who were clearing immigration, he was told to stand aside. When he asked the reason, the immigration officer muttered that there were 'too many Mohamads' that day. Smiling to himself, the Singaporean waited patiently and peered around, wondering how long he had to wait. The officer then warned him to stand still. He suddenly felt a chill along his spine. Muslims all over the world are being profiled by security agencies. Since 11 September 2001, Muslims travelling to Western countries have been subject to all manner of interrogations and searches. Although the profiling is now done more subtly now, it continues. And in East Asia, profiling is increasing. When sudden threats appear, perhaps it is natural to expect a certain overreaction from the affected communities. After Pearl Harbour, all Japanese people living in America became suspect, including those born there. Many were interned. By today's standards, that was an affront. But at that time, it was widely felt to be a necessary precaution. Shocked by that reaction, Japanese-American leaders set out to prove their Americanness, for example by forming the Japanese- American 100th Infantry Battalion, which fought heroically in the European theatre. The travails of the Japanese-Americans were not unique. Tribalism is a basic human instinct. We may proclaim that all men are brothers, but we reflexively distinguish degrees of closeness. Divisions of race, language, culture and religion run deep in human society and emerge under stress. The ascendancy of the West in the past few centuries created tremendous stress in non-Western communities, upsetting all relationships and giving rise to a variety of responses, all of which sought to reconcile each communityís sense of self with the needs of a Western-defined modernity. In Asia, for example, the re-emergence of China and India on the global stage has been a prolonged struggle of reconciling transformation with tradition. That is the broader historical context against which the relationship between Muslims and non- Muslims in the world must be viewed today. It is a subject that concerns us all deeply in the United Nations. There are two evolving developments which feed on each other. The first is change within Islam itself; the other is the relationship between Muslims and non- Muslims in different parts of the world. Both require our close attention. The response of the Islamic world to the challenge of modernization will affect the development of the entire world in this century. In some ways, it is comparable to that of the Chinese response to modernization, and it will probably take much longer. The decline of the Ottoman Empire in the nineteenth century took place at about the same time as the decline of the Qing Dynasty in China. Both collapsed at the beginning of the twentieth century. After many 8 twists and turns, China has finally re-emerged onto the global stage with a bright future ahead of it. There are about as many Muslims in the world as there are Chinese. In contrast to China, however, the Islamic world is unlikely to re-coalesce in the foreseeable future. Once Ataturk refused the caliphate and with iron determination started reforming Turkish institutions on the Western model, the Islamic world lost its centre. From then on, different Islamic societies experimented with different approaches and moved in different directions. It has been a mixed story. The different responses of Muslim societies to the challenge of modernization are accompanied by a great ideological debate among political and religious leaders. Good governance has become a major issue, with calls for greater transparency and more democracy. In this debate, it is natural that some groups should look back to a romanticized period when the Islamic world was united and pristine and seek its re-establishment in the twenty-first century. Such were the ideas of the Muslim Brotherhood, which emanated from Egypt at the beginning of the twentieth century. The ideology of that movement continues to inspire Islamic groups in various parts of the world today. If only Muslims were to abide strictly by the teachings of Islam, there would be no corruption, Governments would be just and effective and Islamic societies would become strong again. In many Islamic countries at various times, these groups have been suppressed for being subversive, and those who funded them were thought to have ulterior motives. This struggle for the soul of Islam is an ongoing process. However, it is not a struggle unique to Islam. For more than 200 years, Europe was bloodied by religious wars, which ended only with the Treaty of Westphalia in 1648, which created the system of modern European States. But even then, there was still religious persecution, which led many Europeans to flee to the New World. In the twentieth century, the soul of Europe was torn by communism, fascism and anti-Semitism. It was precisely to overcome those divisions that the European Union was established by stages, creating the longest period of peace on that continent. How Islamic society evolves in the coming decades is mainly for Muslims to decide. Generally speaking, non-Muslims would have no standing to participate in this debate but for two factors which have become critical and which have strategic importance for us all. The first factor is the emergence of the ideology of Al-Qaida and its sister organizations, such as Al- Jamaía al-Islamiyah. This ideology is a malignant mutation of the ideas associated with the Muslim Brotherhood and other groups that argued for a return of Islamic society to an idealized past. It takes those ideas to an extreme and preaches hatred against non- Muslims worldwide, justifying violence against innocent bystanders even if they are Muslim. The suicide bomber has become a potent weapon in its armoury. The followers of this ideology will not hesitate to use weapons of mass destruction if they can get their hands on them. We have a duty in the United Nations to join in the global war against them. The second factor necessitating the involvement of non-Muslims in the Islamic debate is the growing Muslim diaspora in many non-Islamic countries. As minority communities, Muslims living in countries like France and Germany, for example, have to accept certain limitations in the practice of their religion. With growing religiosity in recent years, issues like the wearing of the headscarf have surfaced. What constitutes a reasonable compromise varies from country to country. For example, Singapore allows aspects of sharia law to apply to Muslims, including Muslim men being allowed four wives, although only under stringent conditions. It would be hard for non- Muslims to accept this in Europe. The fact is that while some human values are universal - and we should find more of them - many are not. We have to accept this diversity in the world. A greater tolerance of diversity in the world would create better conditions for peaceful cooperation between Muslims and non-Muslims and would influence the debate within Islam itself. If non-Muslims tar all Muslims with the brush of terrorism and non-Muslim majority communities treat minority Muslim communities as problem communities, the future will be troubled for all of us. In such a climate, Muslim extremists will gain ascendancy, and the terrorists will find fertile ground for recruitment everywhere. It is ridiculous to argue that terrorism is inherent in Islam. To do so is to play into the hands of the terrorists. That such views are increasingly being expressed in reputable journals and newspapers is 9 troubling. Of course one could find blood-curdling passages in the Koran and the Hadith, but these passages must be read in context. We find similar passages too in the Old Testament. As we would not, therefore, argue that terrorism is inherent in Judaism and Christianity, so we should not make Islam the problem. That would be a big mistake. There were periods in history when Islamic society was considerably more advanced than Western society. Equally, it would be a big mistake for Muslim leaders to allow Muslim extremists to make claims on behalf of Muslims worldwide without contest. This causes non-Muslims to suspect that Muslims are generally in sympathy with them. To be sure, there are genuine grievances that have to be addressed, like Palestine, Chechnya and the future of Iraq, but these are issues that are more political than religious. The strategy of the extremists is to polarize Muslims and non-Muslims worldwide, thereby widening their base of support. Muslim leaders have to counter this strategy. It is also essential for them to reach out to non-Muslim audiences as well. The recent bombings in London led to a strong anti-Muslim backlash at the grass roots that threatened the fabric of British society. This in turn put pressure on Muslim leaders in the United Kingdom to condemn the terrorists in clear terms. In the end, the fight against the terrorists has to be won within Muslim communities themselves. It is a battle for hearts and minds that requires Muslims to work together with non-Muslims against a common enemy. We have to make a concerted effort to understand each other better. With globalization, all societies have become multiracial and multireligious to a greater or lesser extent. The pluralism we hold as an ideal in the United Nations is not a choice; it is a vital necessity. In 1998, at its fifty-third session, the General Assembly declared in resolution 53/22 that 2001 would be the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. In 2001, at the fifty-sixth session, the General Assembly adopted the Global Agenda for Dialogue among Civilizations (resolution 56/6). And this year the United Nations sponsored numerous meetings on interfaith dialogue. A few months ago, the first Asia-Middle East Dialogue was held in Singapore to promote greater understanding between two important regions of the world. We need to translate our declarations of principle into everyday language and into practice. Are there limits to what politicians can say to win votes? Should religious leaders be allowed to preach hatred, even in close confines? What do we teach our children in school? What does all this mean to the immigration officer at the airport who does not know that Mohammed is the most common name in the world? Singapore, a cosmopolitan city-State with a multiracial and multireligious population, is particularly vulnerable. We have experienced ugly racial and religious riots before and have learned that racial and religious harmony should never be taken for granted. It has been necessary for the Government to involve itself in many aspects of ordinary life, including discouraging Christian missionaries from targeting Muslims for conversion, stopping mosques from sharply turning up the volume of their loudspeakers when calling the faithful to prayer, limiting the size of joss sticks which Buddhists and Taoists burn for their rituals and arresting those who incite racial and religious hatred. What may appear to be a small thing to one community can be a serious provocation to another. This has become the world we live in. We cannot ignore the diversity around us in our everyday life or the tribalism which is in our nature. We will continue to disagree on many things such as the nature of democracy, gender relationships, the death penalty, stem-cell research and what we can or cannot eat. The moment we dismiss those differences as unimportant, or lightly condemn those who disagree with us, the trouble begins. Therefore, as we strive to achieve the Millennium Goals in the United Nations - and they are worthy Goals - a key task for us is to accept, even celebrate, the differences that divide us in our daily lives. To paraphrase Pope John-Paul II, it is only because we are many that we are one, and the United Nations expresses that ideal.I bring warm greetings, Sir, from the Government and people of Solomon Islands, and I wish to congratulate the President on his election to lead the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I would like to assure him of Solomon Islands’ support and cooperation during his term in office as he guides the work of the Assembly over the next 12 months. My delegation would also like to commend and register its deep appreciation to his predecessor, our colleague, the Honourable Jean Ping, Foreign Minister of Gabon, for his invaluable contribution and able leadership of the proceedings of fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. 28 Solomon Islands also extends its gratitude to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his vision, dedication and leadership in making the United Nations relevant and responsive to today’s threats. This Organization rose out of the ashes of the Second World War with the sole purpose of ensuring that never again would the world allow crimes against humanity to flourish. Sixty years on, genocide, terrorism, HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and hunger continue to claim millions of lives annually. According to a recent World Health Organization report, preventable disease, such as malaria, claims more lives than today’s conflicts put together. Of 300 to 500 million clinical cases annually, 1.5 to 2.7 million lives are lost. In this connection, Solomon Islands suffers higher rates of malaria and maternal mortality than any other country in the Pacific region. My delegation is pleased to see the summit agree on the establishment and implementation of “quick win” initiatives, such as free distribution of treated bed nets and antimalarial medicines. But more needs to be done; a comprehensive malaria eradication programme on public and environmental health must be initiated and implemented simultaneously. Despite these overwhelming facts, the world continues to spend even more on military programmes and equipment. The lack of progress on disarmament and non-proliferation, with the continuing threat of terrorism, begs the question as to whether the world has indeed become safer, more stable and protected, as the founders of the United Nations Charter envisioned. It further raises the question whether international frameworks and cooperation agreements have, in fact, contained today’s threats. Solomon Islands condemns terrorism in all its forms. In this regard, we are embarking on a legislative process, with New Zealand’s support, to increase our national capacity in enhancing regional security arrangements through the Nasonini Declaration on Regional Security and the Honiara Declaration on Law Enforcement Cooperation, particularly as concerns threats posed by international terrorism and transnational crimes. In keeping with this year’s theme, “For a stronger and more effective United Nations: the follow-up and implementation of the High-level Plenary Meeting in September 2005”, we are faced with the challenge of continuing the reform process. As my Prime Minister pointed out last week during the high-level summit, we must not solve today’s problems with yesterday’s solutions, but rather with a new vision that will build a stronger multilateral system to confront threats and challenges in the twenty-first century. Solomon Islands notes and supports the Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1) as a starting point for change. Current reforms to rejuvenate the multilateral system must occur at three levels — international, regional and national. The forthcoming Doha process, beginning in December of this year, will provide another opportunity for the international community to equitably spread the fruits of globalization, take to task the imbalance that exists within the economic international system and address the challenges of vulnerable and fragile States. The Doha development agenda must accord stable and predictable market access to all least developed countries’ products, technology transfer and human resources development. For Solomon Islands to share the fruits of the multilateral trading system in a meaningful way, it must first address the domestic bottlenecks that impede its full participation, such as supply-side restraints and other “behind-the-door” complementary policies that are not conducive to a business-friendly environment. The Brussels Declaration and the Programme for Action for the Least Developed Countries will be reviewed beginning next year. The lack of implementation of the Brussels Programme speaks of the international community’s commitment to 700 million of the world’s most vulnerable persons. Solomon Islands is off track in terms of meeting its Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) obligation; however, as a least developed country in the Asia/ Pacific region, it is committed to meeting its MDGs and seeks international support and attention in this endeavour. Poverty has no boundaries, and we acknowledge and support the Jakarta Declaration. For the MDGs and other benefits to be realized and sustained, Solomon Islands will need to grow its economy. Solomon Islands also calls for a greater in- country presence on the part of the United Nations to work in partnership with us to meet the Goals. Solomon Islands supports the proposal to establish the Peacebuilding Commission. The Commission will play a difficult and important role in assisting countries that are emerging from conflict situations to reintegrate, reconstruct and rebuild State institutions in order to maintain peace, security and 29 economic stability. In that light, the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI) is a shining example from which the Commission could draw lessons. It has demonstrated that, with courage and determination, the principles and institutions of democracy and human rights can be safeguarded and protected. A two-pronged approach of law and order complemented by economic security and carried out in the spirit of true partnership will create an opportunity for peace to prosper. Solomon Islands also welcomes the Assembly’s endorsement of the concept of the responsibility to protect populations from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity, as contained in the summit’s outcome document. Solomon Islands would like to express its deep appreciation to Australia, New Zealand and our good friends and neighbours, the Pacific Island countries for their continued support and contribution to Regional Assistance Mission. We could not have done it without them, and I thank them. Solomon Islands needs to progress beyond the initial crisis of law and order, but the challenge remains to nurture the country and build an economy to sustain it. Per capita income in Solomon Islands has currently dropped to more than 20 per cent below the 1995 level. To repair that situation, Solomon Islands must address harmful past policies of economic mismanagement, a lack of fiscal discipline, faulty governance and capacity constraints at all levels. Solomon Islands is well endowed with natural resources and a young population that can form the basis of a good labour supply, but it lacks both human capital and physical capital, with poor infrastructure to lift productivity and deliver sustainable growth that is broad-based, rurally focused and people-centred. That is why the Government is initiating a strategy to attract and build capital. The strategy hinges on establishing a stable macroeconomic environment, creating simple business-friendly tax and regulatory regimes and improving infrastructure and good governance. With respect to establishing a credible fiscal policy, we have returned the budget to surpluses. Revenues have been enhanced. Expenditures have been tightened and prioritized. Monetary policies are being fine-tuned and aligned. State-owned enterprises continue to be reformed, with steps taken to remove barriers and improve efficient shipping networks, which are critical for island nations. Those initiatives will be coupled with a new draft investment law, a credible budget for 2006 and the introduction of a fair and simple tax reform bill, which will be submitted to the Parliament at its next sitting. Debt levels remain crippling, amounting to more than 100 per cent of the gross domestic product of the Solomon Islands. Talks with creditors have begun to establish a workable debt strategy. The innovative approach advocated by the Philippines of a debt-for- equity swap to finance MDG projects is worth looking into. Capacity-building in governance that is free from corruption is vital for rural development, health and education. Leadership and governance, which are critical for stability and economic development, are being improved by clarifying rules and expectations and by adopting an outcome-oriented approach. That will improve the transparency of public processes and the effectiveness of institutions. Solomon Islands acknowledges the contributions of Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Japan, the European Union, Taiwan, the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank, among other donor partners, in support of Government initiatives to rebuild our fragile and shattered State. Solomon Islands must consolidate the gains achieved in the past two years on the security and economic fronts and move forward constructively. Much is yet to be done. On climate change, the world continues to experience changing weather patterns and has seen an increase in the frequency and intensity of natural disasters. Small island developing States (SIDS), such as Solomon Islands, are more vulnerable and susceptible to natural disasters, and we call for the international community to renew its focus on, and concrete commitment to, the issue of climate change, in line with the summit’s outcome document. My delegation welcomes the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol in February this year and calls on those countries that have not yet ratified the Protocol to do so at their earliest convenience. In the light of the Asian tsunami of last December, it would be cost-effective for the world to invest in mitigation measures, in particular renewable energy resources. The Hyogo strategy of the Kobe Conference and the Mauritius Strategy of January this year provide an excellent starting point. Sadly, however, the Group of Eight meeting on climate 30 change did not take decisive action. For that reason, Solomon Islands, as a member of the Alliance of Small Island States, urges the Group of Eight to reconsider the issue, because the environment has an impact on the physical survival of small island developing States. Closer to home, Solomon Islands wishes to acknowledge the completion of the United Nations Observer Mission in Bougainville, Papua New Guinea, with the successful election in Papua New Guinea’s newly autonomous province of Bougainville. We wish our closest Melanesian neighbour every success in building on the political gains made so far, and we assure Bougainville of our commitment to all bilateral cooperative arrangements. Solomon Islands also acknowledges Papua New Guinea’s ongoing bilateral assistance to Solomon Islands. With respect to Security Council reform, Solomon Islands believes that the membership of the Council should reflect the political and economic realities of our time. In that regard, Solomon Islands supports the expansion of the Security Council and feels that a country such as Japan, which has strong bilateral links with Solomon Islands, should be accorded a permanent seat on the Council. Japan’s inclusion will contribute to bridging the divide between the multilateral institutions and Member States. This year marks the tenth anniversary of the Beijing Platform for Action. The results have been mixed. Solomon Islands believes that improving the welfare of women is an indispensable requirement for sustainable security. At the regional level, issues relating to the empowerment of women are being incorporated into the Pacific Plan, which will be discussed by Pacific Islands Forum leaders in October this year. The United Nations was founded on the principle of maintaining international peace and security. Over the years, some threats continue to receive more attention than others. The Anti-Secession Law enacted by the People’s Republic of China in March this year has threatened peace and security on the Taiwan Strait. The situation creates a security vacuum that, if left unattended, will continue to fester and will put in question the credibility of this premier multilateral institution. There is no mechanism to address such threats within the parameters of the United Nations Charter. Solomon Islands therefore renews its call to have the issue debated in the General Assembly. The time has now come for this body to allow Taiwan, a major player in the international economic system, to take its rightful place in the United Nations. The Assembly cannot continue to ignore the plight of the 23 million people of Taiwan. Solomon Islands regrets the manner in which the Assembly has dealt with the issue, allowing certain countries to dictate the agenda. With respect to the reform of the Secretariat, Solomon Islands would like to see the Secretariat reflect the diversity of its membership. The current recruitment process of having external, rather than in- country, examinations has deterred potential applicants from small island developing States from applying, given the associated expenses. In conclusion, Solomon Islands supports multilateralism, and I assure the President of our ongoing support for United Nations reform.I bring warm greetings from the people of the Republic of Vanuatu. At the outset, I wish to congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I assure you of my Government’s support for the work of the United Nations under your stewardship. I take this opportunity also to acknowledge, with deep admiration, the sterling dedication of your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, who meticulously steered the work of the fifty-ninth session to its conclusion. I would like also to pay tribute to the Secretary-General for his active role and for his resilience in continuing the work of United Nations reform. We come to the Assembly annually to reaffirm our faith and confidence in the purposes and principles of the Charter. This year is especially important, since leaders are meeting five years after the Millennium Summit to take stock of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Although the outcome document has been adopted, we are extremely disappointed with the omission of numerous paragraphs. The farcical ending of the negotiations resulted in a dilution of the quality of the final document. The United Nations must, in future, avoid becoming a rubber stamp for the powerful. The world is at a crossroads. Our meeting is taking place at a critical juncture. Civil and political strife, wars, poverty, diseases, famine, drought, natural disasters, terrorism, minority oppression and environmental degradation are affecting the lives of millions of people. The sacrilege of such human suffering is unbelievable and painful to bear. The United Nations must be able to do more and must respond more promptly to such situations. It must do so by improving its preventive-capacity mechanisms so as to minimize the devastating impact on peoples’ livelihood and to ease their suffering. We must ask, therefore, whether we are really doing enough for our peoples. Is this all about impressive speeches, rhetoric and pretentious, grandiose plans that detract from the real issues that need addressing? My Government is disillusioned by the lack of genuine goodwill and support that is being offered to the United Nations. I would like to reiterate my Government’s message to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. “The Achilles heel of the current structure is the imbalance of power in the United Nations system. It has become so chronic that it has weakened 2 the multilateral focus, cohesiveness and internationalism of the United Nations.” (A/59/PV.14, p. 25) The principles of democratization and good governance, so actively advocated and championed by some Members, must be reflected in the reorganization and decision-making process of the United Nations system. If we are to get back on track, the United Nations must be rejuvenated. It must be reinvigorated so that it can reassume its legitimate and central responsibility in addressing the causes of conflict, maintaining peace and security and promoting the development agenda. But if it is to do that, the Organization’s decision- making and other processes must be transparent and truly democratized. Some of us preach strongly on democracy the world over, yet are unable to practice and enforce those values when it really matters. We are now on the threshold of a new beginning, so let us not allow this new opportunity to pass. At the summit, I said that tolerance and respect must form the nucleus for any reform of the United Nations. Only by enforcing those values will we come to realize the true meaning of justice, equality and human rights. The diversity of the developing world presents huge challenges for us all. However, the strong nations must be able to muster the political will to effect changes. The big players need to transform their philosophy and their mindset, because they have been hindrances to the creation of an equitable system of good governance within multilateral organizations such as the United Nations. The United Nations remains indispensable for future peace and prosperity. Globalization has brought nations together; we are interlinked and interdependent, and that requires global cooperation and governance from all responsible Members of the Organization. Understandably, there are vested interests held by the powerful. That requires genuine cooperation and goodwill, and those interests and the role of the United Nations must converge in order to ensure compatibility with the international legal framework. My Government fully supports efforts to reform the United Nations system so as to ensure a stronger and more effective Organization. In this context, my delegation shares the views of other delegations on the need to revise the membership of the Security Council so as to ensure fair representation of Member States without affecting the authority of the Council. A more representative Council will bring openness and transparency, create confidence and improve understanding and cooperation. The restructuring of the Security Council membership is long overdue. Diversity is essential in that respect. I agree that terrorism is one of three main scourges confronting humankind today — the others being poverty and disease. My Government condemns those deliberate callous and inhuman acts that have taken the lives of innocent people. There is no just act of terrorism. We agree that we must work collectively in eliminating that deadly menace from the face of the Earth. But the fight against terrorism must be balanced and targeted so as to ensure that resources are equitably channelled into meeting the Millennium Development Goals. The global economic situation today discriminates against many of the developing economies. Unfair trading practices and the imposition of intrusive policies on national economies affect our economies by opening them up to unfavourable conditions that only favour the stronger nations. Such negative actions marginalize nations and peoples. Marginalization then breeds and incites resentment, fuelling the hatred that eventually creates fertile grounds for extremism to grow and flourish. We have agreed on the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission, which will also enable more work to be done to combat the spread of terrorism, in particular by identifying areas where international support and understanding are required. Although we are injecting many resources into curing the problem, we are not really preventing it from emerging. The world needs a spirit of pacifism if real peace is to prevail. In order to achieve that, the United Nations needs moral leadership — leadership that focuses on security and dignity for the human person. The post-Monterrey Conference era poses extreme challenges for the economic survival and socio-economic stability of many of the small island developing nations like Vanuatu. We urge our development partners to honour their commitments to reach the 0.7 per cent target for official development assistance (ODA). In this context we welcome the commitments from the United States of America through the Millennium Challenge Account. We also 3 welcome commitments by Qatar, the European Union and the People’s Republic of China. Furthermore, we look forward to the coming to fruition of initiatives by France and other countries. The pivotal role of trade as the engine for economic growth cannot be overemphasized, but, as many of my colleagues from the small island States and the least developed countries have stated, market access and special preferential treatment must be provided. Furthermore, many of us are restricted by inflexible and immoral conditions that inhibit new financing and development initiatives. We continue to call for trade and investment and labour export to help our economies to grow. My Government’s national development priorities focus on building the productive sector. The Government’s prioritized action agenda highlights the policy areas that we believe to be essential in meeting our development objectives. It is the catalyst for Vanuatu’s medium- to long-term strategic planning, which emphasizes the need to empower our rural population through infrastructure- and capacity- building initiatives. The development policy framework is consistent with achieving the MDG targets, and the development strategy is being refined to give equal consideration to our other international commitments and the Pacific Plan. We appeal to our development partners to assist us in the effective implementation of our strategy. A fundamental lesson to be drawn from Vanuatu’s reforms is that they have been forced from outside, without being adapted to our national circumstances. From Vanuatu’s perspective, externally driven reforms must be buttressed by an equal partnership that respects local traditions and cultures and the rights of all citizens, without disturbing the essential uniting mechanisms of society that have successfully held us together. Vanuatu embraces democracy and the concepts of good governance and transparency, but those far-reaching principles must be tailored to traditional systems without affecting their relevance and significance. With regard to the environment, we urge our development partners to actively support the effective implementation of the Mauritius Strategy. The challenges confronting island States are ominous, and I repeat the call that more recognition should be given to accommodate our natural characteristics and vulnerabilities. We also urge States that have not yet done so to act responsibly by ratifying the Kyoto Protocol as soon as possible. On the question of the shipment of radioactive materials and hazardous waste, improvements in safeguards and assurances should not have to await a calamity. Preventive measures must be the course of action to take. The risks posed by the forces of nature, coupled with increased terrorist activities, are too grave for enhanced safeguards to deal with. The world would be better off banning such shipments rather than endlessly trying to perfect safeguards approaches that, at best, only limit such serious risks. Complacency would be our greatest mistake. The Charter of the United Nations espouses the principles that continue to guide the Organization’s efforts in the process of self-determination. That right must be progressively advanced. The United Nations must be consistent and not lose sight of the fundamental right of self-determination for those who are working their way out of the shackles of colonial rule. Ruling and sovereign authorities must ensure that the process remains on track. Where the United Nations has failed to fully comply with the appropriate legal procedures, it is only proper that such instances be adequately addressed to allow justice to prevail for the victims. Circumventing the issue only exposes the dark history and raises serious questions about the credibility, relevance and integrity of the United Nations. Only in an open and consistent manner can we redress past failures and provide a stronger basis for the advancement of United Nations ideals. Such contradictions simply make a mockery of the fundamental principles of human rights and self- determination clearly enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. How can we call for respect for human rights, yet blatantly ignore the pleas of the millions calling out for justice? The United Nations cannot, and must not, continue to turn a blind eye to its own past failures. It is morally, politically and legally wrong to do so. The continuing disputes raised over the implementation of United Nations resolutions are clear 4 examples challenging the integrity and validity of the United Nations. We cannot ignore the calls of the West Papuans in their quest for justice. We urge the United Nations to act responsibly in revisiting the case of West Papua. However, we are encouraged by the Indonesian Government’s efforts to address alleged human rights abuses. We also welcome decisions empowering West Papuans to manage their own affairs in collaboration with the central Government. The United Nations must also explore various avenues to end the economic embargo imposed on Cuba. Countless resolutions have been adopted to no effect, and the Cuban people continue to be marginalized in the multilateral trading system. This is a critically challenging responsibility. Some may see it as an improbable task, but it must be addressed with genuine support and goodwill on the part of the relevant authorities and sovereign States. In conclusion, I hope that the Creator’s wisdom will prevail as we continue our journey. Despite all our differences and diversities, human security for all is our main goal and should remain the focus of the United Nations agenda. The cardinal question is, will Members allow the United Nations to undertake serious reforms in meeting the challenges ahead? And will the Organization be capable of guaranteeing a future of peace and prosperity that is not reserved only for the big players but will be enjoyed by all? Will the United Nations become a juggernaut for the stronger nations? A famous biblical verse reminds us about the fundamental wisdom of building on rock instead of sand. The future remains in our hands, and the Republic of Vanuatu will play its part. May our beloved almighty Creator bless us all.I wish at the outset to congratulate you on your election as President of the sixtieth session of the United Nations General Assembly and also for the excellent manner in which you and your Bureau are steering the work of this session. I would like to assure you of my delegation’s full support. I further commend His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, our Secretary-General, for the dynamic and sterling leadership of the United Nations. The theme of this session is germane to the proposals for reform of the Organization. There is the imperative of taking stock of its strengths and weaknesses so that we can create a better future. Within the context of this theme, the Secretary-General, through his report entitled “In larger freedom”, has made important proposals that will make the United Nations more effective and credible. The proposals aim at enabling the United Nations to provide the required leadership in the implementation of the global development agenda and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). My country, Malawi, has followed closely the debate on the report. I feel that, from the diverse opinions that have been expressed, a consensus is emerging on the need to implement United Nations reforms and make the Organization respond more effectively to the challenge of change. Let me, however, express the view that, in addition to the reform of the Security Council, there are other equally important reforms of the United Nations that are critical to the realization of the global development agenda. I will turn to these later. For the moment, it is critical that we remain focused so that all elements of the reform receive our undivided attention. Mr. President, let me assure you that Malawi appreciates the role played by the international community and the United Nations in the efforts to eradicate poverty and promote development and prosperity for all. The just-ended High-level Plenary Meeting is one such initiative that offers great hopes for the way forward. However, previous experience has taught us that a lot is generally said and promised within the United Nations, but little or nothing is delivered. It is my earnest hope that the outcome of this session will not turn out to be another talk show. Malawi faces serious problems in instituting an effective system of political and economic governance. 2 My country continues to face critical challenges in determining our political agenda, which in turn affect our development efforts. We still face extreme poverty, food shortages, hunger and malnutrition. HIV/AIDS continues to claim more lives. Malaria is still killing millions each year. Over and above these problems, we face mounting domestic and external debt, an unfair and inequitable global trading system and the prevalence of conflicts and political instability. We therefore feel that for any United Nations reforms to be meaningful, we need assistance in the areas of good governance. In Malawi, we are promoting good governance by pursuing sound macro-economic policies, reduction in public expenditure, bench-marking the activities and performance of the civil service and fighting corruption at all levels. We have also instituted effective reforms of the private sector, and through dialogue the business community is now responding positively to economic and social reforms. In many of these reforms, I can say that we have made a good beginning. It is for this reason that my Government welcomed the establishment of the African Peer Review Mechanism under the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) of the African Union. Our accession to the African Peer Review Mechanism is a manifestation of our desire to adopt policies and practices that emphasize accountability and transparency in public sector management. Malawi has made efforts to implement the Millennium Development Goals. Our report, entitled “Malawi and the Millennium Development Goals: challenges and achievements”, has been circulated. However, my country is facing severe constraints in implementing the MDGs because we are allocating a significant amount of limited resources to servicing external debt and for managing the HIV/AIDS pandemic, at the cost of the social and economic transformation necessary to fight poverty. Malawi, therefore, supports the proposal to find comprehensive and durable solutions to the external debt problem. In this regard, we welcome the recent proposal by the G-8 to cancel 100 per cent of outstanding debt owed by 18 countries, including 14 from Africa. I would like to appeal to all creditors to follow this noble example, because debt cancellation has the potential to assist the poor countries in achieving the MDGs and, hence, attaining national economic recovery and economic transformation. Another challenge for Malawi is that my country finds it hard to be integrated into the global trading system, partly due to the lack of products that meet high quality standards, but also due to an unfair and inequitable global trading system. We therefore join the appeal for the speedy completion of the World Trade Organization Doha Round of multilateral trade negotiations in order to assist poor countries, such as Malawi, to benefit from global trade. Furthermore, there is need to provide immediate duty-free and quota-free market access for all exports from the least developed countries, including the elimination of all non-tariff barriers, such as trade distorting subsidies and domestic support, especially in agriculture, by developed countries. In the African perspective, development efforts have also been heavily undermined by the prevalence of conflicts and political instability in many parts of the continent. Realizing this, we in Africa have taken bold and far-reaching initiatives to promote peace and security on the continent. For instance, my own country, Malawi, has participated in peacekeeping activities in Liberia, the Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I commend the role played by the United Nations Security Council and the G-8 in supporting the African Union’s initiatives in conflict resolution and management. I also wish to draw the attention of this Assembly to the fact that peacekeeping in Africa constitutes the bulk of the Security Council’s work. I therefore earnestly believe that the role of the United Nations in Africa can be enhanced by encouraging Africa’s representation in the Security Council. In that regard, Africa’s call for the expansion of the Security Council should be supported by the international community. The HIV/AIDS pandemic poses serious social and economic challenges to Africa. However, the General Assembly may be interested to know that Malawi is one of the few success stories in managing the HIV/AIDS pandemic. The people of Malawi have welcomed the provision of voluntary counselling and of free anti-retroviral drugs. For instance, since the middle of last year, we have established more than 30 anti-retroviral clinics throughout the country and have treated many people. We expect that by this time next 3 year, we will have been able to treat more than 80,000 people. I therefore welcome the call at the High-level Plenary Meeting to provide, as a priority, assistance for HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment in African countries on a grant basis. I also welcome the emphasis placed on the need to encourage pharmaceutical companies to make anti-retroviral drugs affordable and accessible in Africa. My Government appeals for more funding to enable us to adopt a holistic approach that takes into account the medical, economic, political and social impacts of HIV/AIDS on the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. I take this opportunity to commend all countries that continue to make contributions to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. The Fund has enabled Malawi to introduce free anti-retroviral treatment programme for those infected by HIV/AIDS. In terms of agriculture and food security, Malawi has not fared well this year. My country is facing severe food shortages owing to the drought that we have had since January this year. As a result of a very poor harvest, we shall require approximately 270,000 metric tons to feed some 4.2 million people who will be in need of food until the next harvest season, sometime in April or May next year. I therefore appeal to the world community to help us to obtain more food sources for our people. I am grateful for the pledges of relief food assistance made by our cooperating partners such as the World Food Programme, the British Government, the European Union, the Japanese Government, the United States Government, the Belgian Government and the Norwegian Government. We are also grateful to the Secretary-General for the special appeal he has made for Southern Africa. I am pleased to announce that the people of Malawi are also doing something to feed themselves. We have made provision in our budget to buy food for our people. We have also established a Feed-the-Nation Fund, through which people in Malawi from all walks of life are making voluntary donations to purchase food for the poorest of the poor. The response has been overwhelming. With a view to a medium- to long-term solution, we have adopted concrete policies aimed at reducing our dependence on rain-fed agriculture. We have established a full ministry responsible for water development and irrigation. We look forward to technical assistance from those countries that have expertise in the area of irrigation. Turning to the subject of United Nations reform, I wish to bring to the attention of the General Assembly an important aspect of reform of the Organization, concerning the determination of eligibility for United Nations membership. As members are aware, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights guarantees the right of all the world’s peoples to belong to the United Nations and that no country should be denied membership in the Organization. Malawi believes that the United Nations was founded on the principle of inclusivity in its membership. That is why we in Malawi call for the admission of the Republic of China (Taiwan) as a Member of the United Nations. That request is made on the premise that, following the collapse of communism in Eastern Europe and in the Soviet Union, the new States that emerged therefrom expressed their desire to become sovereign and independent Members of the United Nations. They were granted membership. That was a political decision. In the same way, when the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia broke up into the separate States of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia and Montenegro and Slovenia, each State was admitted into the United Nations. That also was a political decision. Czechoslovakia broke up into the Czech Republic and Slovakia, and each of those States was admitted into the United Nations. In South- East Asia, Singapore pulled out of the Federation of Malaya and became a Member of the United Nations. Later, East Timor broke away from Indonesia and was also admitted as a Member. Those were political decisions. The Government of Malawi is therefore puzzled that the Republic of China (Taiwan), which took a similar political decision, is denied membership in the United Nations. How can the United Nations stand for equity and justice when it is denying membership to more than 23 million people who contribute significantly to global trade and development? How can the United Nations justify its denial of membership to Taiwan when, in fact, the countries listed above were admitted? Why is Taiwan being discriminated against in the United Nations? 4 Unless those questions are honestly answered, observers will conclude that the United Nations is applying a double standard. The Government of Malawi believes that the United Nations should use the same standard to grant membership to the Republic of China. I therefore appeal to the United Nations, through you, Mr. President, to extend membership to the Taiwanese people in the same way as it has done for countries of Eastern Europe and South-East Asia. That would enable the dynamic and resourceful people of Taiwan to play their rightful role in global affairs, industrialization, trade and development. I believe that the admission of the Republic of China (Taiwan) into the United Nations would also bring credibility to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Long live the United Nations!I wish to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside over the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I am convinced that your talent will enable us to take useful decisions. You can count on the full cooperation of my delegation. I also thank the Secretary-General for his efforts to renew the Organization and his work on behalf of the international community. This general debate is being held after the summit to review the implementation of the Millennium Goals, in which many heads of State or Government participated, including the President of my country. The work accomplished by the President at that Meeting will help to overcome the difficulties facing the Organization. For the Argentine Republic, respect for the rule of law is an essential premise. We believe that democracy is a universal value that is not the heritage of any country or region in particular. Day after day, we strive to improve its quality and to ensure the rule of law and the impartiality and independence of our judiciary. Mr. Singh (India), Vice-President took the Chair. Respect for human rights, whose protective norms form part of our Constitution, is another of our concerns. In my country, promoting and protecting human rights is a State policy that is part of our democratic identity as a nation and therefore is one of the main underpinnings of our foreign policy. Defending the right to life and the right to dignity of men and women throughout the world does not allow half-hearted words or half-hearted solutions. That is due to the importance that human rights have acquired in the international arena as a factor in the preservation of peace, development and democracy, as well as in the cruel historic circumstances through which my country had to struggle. We can never devote too much energy to promoting and protecting the human rights of all peoples of the world. Intolerance, censorship, torture and cruelty, even when they are presented as excesses committed in the name of beliefs, deny the validity of the forum in which we are now speaking, and they will continue to do so as long as they exist. In the context of its lasting commitment to policies for social inclusion, my country, a few days ago, adopted a national plan against discrimination. It unconditionally supports the progress of the negotiations currently taking place in the Organization to achieve a comprehensive convention for people with disabilities and hopes that work on that convention will be completed in the course of the coming year. International solidarity can do a great deal for those deprived of their fundamental rights and freedoms, especially as nobody expects such torments to come upon them. That is why, from the start of the discussions on United Nations reform, we have taken a very active stance to strengthen and perfect the universal system for the protection of human rights, making sure that those rights occupy the central position that is their rightful place. There are few things in which men have not believed — as few as those things they did not expect. For that reason, in a country whose citizens were allowed to think that impunity is possible, those that survived must work to prevent history from being repeated. We therefore support the creation of a Human Rights Council as an essential organ of the United Nations and to give the issue of human rights the same importance as that attached to development and security. During the ongoing negotiations, Argentina will work decisively to establish an organ that can carry out vigorous and effective action to promote and protect human rights in all the world. Strengthening global justice is necessary to put a stop to massive human rights violations, genocide and crimes against humanity. Argentina is involved in the 27 fight against impunity for those crimes and unconditionally supports the International Criminal Court. We welcome the adoption of Security Council resolution 1593 (2005), which refers the situation of Darfur to the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court. That resolution represents a very important step in the strengthening of the institutions established under the Rome Statute. It is a historical precedent linked to the achievement of two main goals of the United Nations: peace and basic rights. Argentina, which in its past suffered systematic violations of human rights characterized by torture, forced disappearances and summary executions of its citizens, has taken decisive steps through its domestic legislation to put an end to impunity. Our Supreme Court recently ruled that the general amnesty laws entitled “Punto Final” and “Obediencia debida” were unconstitutional and that they were an obstacle to attaining a postponed but necessary justice. Thus, we join the efforts to ensure that those accountable for crimes against humanity are tried and punished. As the President of Argentina stated during the recent summit, Argentina unequivocally condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, regardless of the causes it invokes. Nothing can justify indiscriminate attacks on innocent civilians and non-combatants. We are strongly committed to fighting that grave threat to international peace and security. Our response to terrorism must be ethical and morally valid, and must therefore be carried out in full respect of the United Nations Charter, the rule of law, international law, human rights, refugee law and humanitarian law. Given that we have to protect others from fear, we must act in accordance with the principles of legitimacy and proportionality and with the support of international public opinion. Argentina, the current Chair of the Security Council’s 1267 (1999) Committee, responsible for monitoring implementation of the sanctions against members of the terrorist group Al-Qaida and the Taliban, believes that the United Nations has a central role to play in the coordinating the efforts and the development of international mechanisms. We must support those endeavours, particularly through the strict and full implementation of Security Council resolutions. This year, my country ratified the 1999 International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism. With that ratification, it became a State party to the 12 international conventions to combat terrorism. And we have just signed the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. In spite of the efforts made, there has been an increase in the number of attacks. That requires a careful review and assessment of the objectives, methods and approaches employed, as well as an important effort by the international community to bring conflicts to an end soon, eliminate aggressive inequalities and achieve a fairer, more rational world. There has recently been some important conceptual progress towards the completion of an international convention on terrorism. We hope that this instrument can soon be adopted. My country — which suffered two very serious attacks, against the Israeli embassy in 1992 and against the Argentine-Israeli Mutual Association (AMIA) in Buenos Aires in 1994 — is determined to shed light on those heinous and unjustifiable criminal acts. Identifying and punishing the culprits is our deeply felt duty to the innocent victims and their families. It is also the desire of the Argentine people. The United Nations is undergoing a reform process that must be transparent, thorough and adequate, and it must answer the urgent and undeniable demands of our peoples. All main organs of the United Nations should be thoroughly improved. The General Assembly, the principal deliberative and decision- taking authority, must find a way to ensure that its voice is heard throughout the world. The Economic and Social Council also needs to be thoroughly rethought and restructured to make it more effective. A vast majority has called for enhancing the transparency and the effectiveness of the Security Council. As part of the Uniting for Consensus movement, Argentina will work for a Security Council that includes new members only within the category of non-permanent members, because we believe that we should not create new privileges contrary to the democratic spirit that should reign in the United Nations. Council members should be accountable for 28 their actions, and that can be achieved through periodic elections. For its part, the Secretariat must continue its process of professionalization and universalization to better ensure its accountability and effectiveness. Peacekeeping operations are among the most effective tools of the United Nations to bring peace and security to troubled peoples. Argentina is strongly committed to these operations, in which it has participated since 1958. Currently, we are contributing to eight of them. In particular, I would highlight efforts being made in Haiti in the search for a peaceful and lasting solution to Haiti’s serious challenges. We have long known that the response to crisis does not end with the establishment of a peacekeeping operation. Because of this, we have established complex operations able to promote stable solutions in all fields: namely security; the rule of law; justice; institution-building; disarmament, demobilization and reintegration; social and economic development; human rights; and democracy. That is why we stress the importance of establishing a Peacebuilding Commission. Argentina supports the goals established at the Millennium Summit and at Johannesburg and Monterrey. Recent progress in development financing shows that while developing countries have made significant efforts to reform and streamline their economies, these efforts have not been accompanied by measures on the part of developed countries to fulfil the commitments adopted at those conferences. Once again, we urge developed countries to allot 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product for development assistance, to open their markets and to do away with subsidies. We support the Monterrey Consensus provisions on reform of the international financial system to adapt the system to the new challenges posed by the fulfilment of the Millennium Development Goals. We believe in the need to study and negotiate the creation of new international financial instruments that will prove more efficient in the ongoing fight against hunger and poverty. I turn now to two topics that are of utmost importance to Argentina: first, the international trade situation. As the summit outcome document that we have adopted (resolution 60/1) states, international trade is a fundamental tool for economic and social development. It is, therefore, imperative that we establish fair, equitable and rule-based international trade that is inclusive and gives priority to development. The ongoing World Trade Organization (WTO) negotiations in the context of the Doha development round are of key importance. It is essential for the WTO to promote a fair international trade system. Developed countries must eliminate protectionist measures in the form of subsidies, non-tariff barriers and arbitrary standards, which distort and limit commercial exchanges, especially in the agricultural sector. The sixth WTO Ministerial Conference, to be held in Hong Kong, is drawing near, and there is still a great deal to be done. We hope that it will enable us to increase the indirect benefits to be gained through growing participation by developing countries in international trade. Secondly, we must also deal with the question of external debt. International bodies must adopt effective, broad, equitable and lasting solutions to the problem of the debt of developing countries. The concept of sustainability of external debt must be redefined, bearing in mind the primary responsibility of the State to maintain and stimulate development in sectors such as health, education and promotion of employment. It is illogical to transform developing countries into relatively less-developed countries so that when the desperate moment arrives, the debt cancellation process can begin. In conclusion, I also wish to refer here to the question of the Malvinas Islands. Recovery of the full exercise of sovereignty over the Malvinas, South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime areas is among the national interests that are an essential component of Argentina’s identity as a democratic nation. All Argentines are strongly committed to the peaceful settlement of this dispute; this commitment is a priority of my country’s foreign policy and is enshrined in our Constitution. Argentina has repeatedly stated its willingness to resume negotiations on sovereignty, as took place between 1966 and 1982. I wish to conclude by reiterating that we have an opportunity to renew this Organization so that it is 29 better equipped to meet the numerous demands of humanity. Everything we can achieve today will result in benefits for future generations. We shall cooperate with other United Nations Members to that end with due modesty, as any party expecting the same level of commitment from others would cooperate.Please accept my congratulations, Sir, on your election to the presidency of this historic sixtieth session of the General Assembly. I wish you every success. I would also like to express my sincere thanks to the outgoing President for his dedicated work at the fifty-ninth session. I endorse the statement of the European Union (EU) presidency. The debate at last week’s summit highlighted one important point, namely, that peace, development, security and human rights are inseparably linked. One cannot address human rights and security without also addressing development. All of those issues are at the very heart of our policies. People are waiting for our solutions to the pressing problems of development. We must achieve the Millennium Development Goals. Of that we are acutely aware, both in Germany and in Europe. The EU plan to reach the 0.7 per cent official development assistance goal by 2015, and the Group of Eight (G-8) commitments made at Gleneagles, substantially strengthen the financial basis of our work. We are also willing to forge new paths by making use of innovative financing mechanisms. At the same time, frameworks establishing fair conditions for international trade are a prerequisite if poorer States are to share the benefits of globalization. The EU is leading the way with its “Everything But Arms” initiative, which grants the least developed countries duty-free and quota-free market access. In that context, we must do all we can to make the Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization, to be held in Hong Kong in December, a success. Only in that way can we bring the Doha round negotiations to a successful conclusion. We also know that excessive indebtedness curbs growth and development. The realignment of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative after 1999 has considerably reduced the indebtedness of some 27 States. Germany has to date forgiven €6.5 billion of debt and has earmarked a further €4 billion for the continuation of the HIPC initiative. Debt relief is, however, dependent on all creditors spreading the burden fairly among themselves. We are alarmed by the fact that commercial and State creditors outside the Paris Club are doing less and less to live up to their responsibilities. I would like to seize this opportunity to call for your support at the forthcoming annual meeting of the Bretton Woods institutions, for the G-8 proposal and for an extensive cancellation of debts — including multilateral debts — for the countries concerned. All of the foregoing emphasizes the great importance we attach to the global partnership for 33 development. That partnership is not, however, a one- way street. It also requires a commitment by partner States to put in place the conditions for development — that is, democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and anti-corruption measures. Climate protection and development are also closely intertwined. Of course, everyone must have access to energy. Nevertheless, all States must do their part to prevent the ominous advance of climate change. In late November the parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol will meet in Montreal. There, we will have the opportunity to adopt effective mechanisms to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases beyond 2012. That is precisely the policy pursued by the Kyoto Protocol, and it is a policy we will adhere to. This year two natural catastrophes — the tsunami in the Indian Ocean and Hurricane Katrina in the United States of America — have clearly demonstrated just how vulnerable our societies are to natural disasters. We have all learned just how important disaster prevention is. As host to the Third International Conference on Early Warning, which will be held in Bonn in March 2006, Germany hopes to contribute to making better use of and improving early warning mechanisms and thereby limiting the scale of the damage caused by such disasters. Here I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate our invitation to all Member States to join us in making the Bonn Conference a success. For years, United Nations engagement has been hailed all over the world as a welcome sign of protection and assistance, of peace and reconstruction. Last Sunday saw the first free parliamentary elections in Afghanistan under the new Constitution. The Government of Afghanistan, with a full complement of democratically legitimated institutions, is now prepared to assume responsibility for the further reconstruction of the country. By going to the polls, millions of women and men in Afghanistan have proved that they have opted for democracy. Our thanks go to the United Nations, which worked hard to make those elections possible. In his latest report on Afghanistan (A/60/224) the Secretary-General announced that the United Nations will remain committed to assisting the country after the elections. I heartily endorse that commitment; such help is indispensable. For even if the Bonn process, launched four years ago, has now been brought to a successful conclusion, the international community will still need to stand by Afghanistan. Germany, too, will continue to do its utmost to support the country. The President returned to the Chair. Ten years after the conclusion of the Dayton Agreement, and six years after the end of the Kosovo conflict, the situation in the Western Balkans has improved tangibly. Nonetheless, major progress is still required in the political, legal and economic fields. The people of that region must genuinely come to terms with their past, and the parties to the conflict must be reconciled. In that connection, we call for full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia in The Hague. The Middle East still faces great challenges. As its neighbours, we in Europe have a strategic interest in peace and stability in the region. We are convinced that only through reform, the strengthening of democracy and the rule of law can lasting stability be guaranteed. The free and fair parliamentary elections in Palestine and Lebanon are encouraging signs of change. The Middle East peace process has also gained new momentum over past months. We emphatically welcome the Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and the northern part of the West Bank. Now it is vital that Israelis, Palestinians and the international community do all they can to lay the foundations for political and economic stability in the Gaza Strip. Efforts should be focused on a two-State solution based on the road map. The objective remains a viable Palestinian State, living side by side with Israel within secure and recognized borders. The international community is united in its determination to help Iraq establish democracy and the rule of law. We want all Iraqis to be able to live free from fear and material hardship. The forces of terror and violence must not and shall not be permitted to win the upper hand. The Middle East needs a stable, prosperous Iraq. Here, too, the United Nations is making its contribution towards the process of political transition and reconstruction. That is why we have provided considerable financial assistance for the protection force whose presence allows the United Nations to work in Iraq. It is also why Germany has, at Iraq’s request, advised that country on constitutional issues. 34 The Iranian nuclear programme continues to be a major cause of concern. Past violations of international obligations, a lack of transparency in its actions, and insufficient cooperation with subsequent investigations have destroyed any confidence that the programme is for exclusively peaceful purposes. With support from the EU High Representative, Germany, France and the United Kingdom have worked with Iran on finding a way to restore confidence. Those efforts have received broad support from the international community. Tehran’s continued disregard of International Atomic Energy Agency decisions, however, is further weakening that confidence and the gains made to date are being put at risk for no good reason. We should emphasize that our concerns do not relate to Iran’s right to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. This has never been and will not be put in question. Our concerns do not relate to Iran’s right to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. That has never been and will not be called into question. We remain prepared to work on solutions which include objective guarantees that the Iranian nuclear programme can serve only peaceful ends. I appeal to Iran to refrain from taking unilateral measures and to return to the negotiating table. There is general agreement that the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is now more than ever a life-threatening risk to us all. It is thus all the more regrettable that no consensus could be reached on the inclusion in the outcome document of a chapter on non-proliferation and disarmament. If we want to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, in particular of nuclear weapons, all States must fulfil their obligations. At the same time, new momentum must be brought to the process of nuclear disarmament. In that context, I welcome the latest progress made by the six-party talks towards resolving the nuclear crisis on the Korean peninsula. It is a vital first step. Africa is in many ways a touchstone for and an example of an effective multilateral system. The close cooperation of the United Nations with the African Union, as well as with the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), has had a beneficial impact in Sierra Leone, Liberia, Côte d’Ivoire and, recently, in Burundi. The United Nations is also playing an equally important role in efforts to stabilize the Great Lakes region. Following the death of John Garang, the peace process in the Sudan requires an even greater commitment by all parties to implement the historic Nairobi peace agreement. The United Nations Mission in the Sudan (UNMIS), to which Germany has contributed personnel, is making a major contribution. However, we must not neglect other crisis areas, in particular Darfur. The African Union mission in Darfur has helped to stabilize the security situation in the area where it is stationed. The variety of problems facing us — poverty, social polarization, global population growth, inadequate water supplies and global climate change, to name only the most pressing — serves to highlight the need for concerted action. We must prepare the United Nations for the challenges of the twenty-first century. Over the past 12 months, reform of the United Nations has been intensively debated. Member States, the High-level Panel and the Secretary-General himself have provided valuable input. Some of their proposals are contained in the outcome document adopted at last week’s world summit. However, only when we have managed to implement those proposals will we be able to speak of true achievement. To be a success, the process requires the active participation of all Member States. The tasks that the summit has set the General Assembly must be tackled with speed and focus. At this session, the General Assembly must make a breakthrough towards the adoption of the comprehensive convention on international terrorism. It must also work on the creation of a Peacebuilding Commission. Sustainable peace requires more than merely restoring security. The post-conflict peacebuilding phase is particularly crucial. The sooner reconstruction can begin, and the better coordinated the peacemaking and post-conflict recovery efforts are, the better the chances of lasting stabilization. The summit took a vital step in that direction by deciding to establish the Peacebuilding Commission by the end of the year. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, in his report entitled “In larger freedom”, states that: “No security agenda and no drive for development will be successful unless they are based on … respect for human dignity”. (A/59/2005, para. 128) 35 If we wish to lend greater weight to the protection and promotion of human rights, we must also strengthen the relevant United Nations bodies and mechanisms. Germany therefore welcomes the decision taken by the summit to create a Human Rights Council which will replace the Commission on Human Rights. The General Assembly must now move fast to define the mandate and structures of the Human Rights Council. It must ensure that the new body enjoys greater legitimacy than its predecessor and that its working methods are more effective, especially when it comes to responding to acute crises. Allow me a last word. A glance at the trouble spots around the world makes it clear that we, the international community, face far more conflicts in the South than we do in the North. Key decisions on settling those conflicts are taken in the Security Council which, under the Charter of the United Nations, has primary responsibility for the maintenance of peace. Its composition, however, still reflects the world of 1945 and not that of the twenty-first century. Adjusting and expanding the membership of the Security Council by adding both permanent and non- permanent members thus remains essential. Any reform of the United Nations that does not include reform of the Security Council is not worthy of the name. The Security Council is in danger of losing its authority and legitimacy as long as entire continents and major contributors are not adequately represented. Germany and its partners Brazil, India and Japan therefore have submitted a proposal on reform of the Council. It is the only proposal that includes a comprehensive reform of the Security Council and its working methods. We are convinced that it is the only proposal capable of obtaining the necessary two-thirds majority in the General Assembly. Reform of the Security Council is an indispensable part of the overhaul of the United Nations. In last week’s summit document, we all pledged to swiftly advance those reforms. We do not need only progress; we need results. The time is ripe for radical reform. Let us use this session of the General Assembly to finally resolve this issue, which is so vital to the future of the United Nations.The conclusion of the summit last week marks the beginning of another busy year for the General Assembly and the Member States of the United Nations. The summit gave us an ambitious new agenda and in the spirit of multilateralism we must do our utmost to meet the goals it set out. Denmark intends to pull up its sleeves and contribute to that undertaking and I encourage others to do the same. In his impressive report “In larger freedom” (A/59/2005), issued in March, the Secretary-General 11 gave us the best possible basis for the necessary and profound changes the Organization must undergo. The spirit of the new interrelated reform agenda is captured in the report’s observation that “… we will not enjoy development without security, we will not enjoy security without development, and we will not enjoy either without respect for human rights” (A/59/2005, para. 17). With those words the Secretary-General identified the three pillars of the United Nations in the twenty-first century: security, development and human rights. The custodian of international peace and security is the Security Council. In October last year, members elected Denmark as a non-permanent member of the Security Council. We have — to the best of our abilities — sought to translate the trust bestowed upon us into action: Denmark holds the Chair of the Counter- Terrorism Committee; we work for improvements in United Nations peacekeeping by pursuing a holistic approach to the concept of peacebuilding; we advocate better protection for women and children; and we support a stronger emphasis on the rule of law and the need to end impunity. The Security Council must clearly demonstrate its will to enforce the decisions taken by it. If not, the Council loses credibility, and the international community loses its only forceful multilateral instrument. Targeted sanctions are an important instrument for achieving compliance with decisions of the Security Council and for compliance with international law in general. We must continue an intensive dialogue on how best to implement sanctions and how to follow them up to ensure the desired outcome. The approach must always include both carrot and stick — incentive and punishment. The United Nations plays a central role in efforts to fight terrorism and we support the Secretary- General’s outline for a comprehensive United Nations counter-terrorism strategy that will engage the whole United Nations system in the fight against terrorism. We will take an active part in its further development and implementation. We also welcome the new resolution on terrorism adopted by the Security Council (Security Council resolution 1624 (2005)). As Chair of the Counter-Terrorism Committee, Denmark regards itself as having a special responsibility in that field. We have given priority to enhanced cooperation between the relevant Security Council subsidiary organs dealing with terrorism, and we will continue to do so. We have also engaged in dialogue with parts of the United Nations family not previously involved in the fight against terrorism. The aim of that dialogue is to identify their role in helping States that would like to engage more actively in the fight against terrorism, but which lack the capacity to do so. We will continue our efforts to strengthen the synergies between relevant United Nations actors to further strengthen the counter-terrorism capability of the United Nations. Our efforts to fight international terrorism must be carried out with full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It is imperative to strike the right balance between, on the one hand, preventive and swift action against terrorists and, on the other, adequate safeguards for the individual, and not least for those who have been unjustly listed. The summit has sent an important political message about the dedication of Member States to fight terrorism, even if it was not as strong as we had wished. We must now make every effort, at the present session of the General Assembly, to reach agreement on a comprehensive convention on international terrorism. Any further stalling on that important issue will send the wrong message. The single most frightening scenario today is that of weapons of mass destruction in the hands of non- State actors. Such possession constitutes a danger to civilizations all over the world. Nobody can claim to be safe today. Everybody must acknowledge the danger and refrain from activities that increase the threat. We need a concerted effort in the field of non-proliferation and disarmament. The failure of the non-proliferation treaty review conference, held this spring, to produce an agreement and the lack of new commitments at the summit must not lead to resignation, but rather must spur us to redouble our efforts. At the same, time concerted action is needed to end illicit traffic in small arms and light weapons, which kill 500,000 people every year. Arms transfers must be transparent. Denmark strongly supports the adoption of an international arms trade treaty. Such a treaty must be legally binding, include all weapons and be United Nations-based. Denmark favours a holistic approach to peacebuilding. We believe the United Nations is well 12 placed to coordinate international efforts to assist countries emerging from conflict. Therefore, we have actively supported the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission. This new body will add value to the work done by various actors including the funds and programmes of the United Nations. I urge Member States to ensure that the Commission will be operational by the end of the year, as requested by the summit. It is a fact that conflicts in Africa continue to loom large on the Security Council’s agenda. The slogan “African solutions to African problems” must not lead to indifference from donors. We must increase our assistance to regional capacity-building and, at the same time, be prepared to provide the necessary human and financial resources for conflict prevention and peacebuilding efforts. To that end, Denmark is sponsoring a major capacity-building programme in Africa in close cooperation with the African Union and the Economic Community of West African States. The summit confirmed our dedication to fulfil the Millennium Development Goals through considerable donor commitments, as well as the need to pay particular attention to countries in Africa that are lagging far behind. Denmark will remain well above the 0.7 aid target and urges all donor countries to implement the goals decided by the summit. The responsibility, however, does not rest with donor countries alone. In order to ensure sustainable development the world’s poor countries must prioritize human development and respect for human rights, tackle national inequalities and curb corruption. In a closely interrelated and interdependent world, our collective security and prosperity depend critically on the success of our fight against poverty. We must continue to look for new ways to enforce international law and protect those in need. Promoting the rule of law must be one of the main objectives when devising peacebuilding strategies in Africa and when addressing democratic deficits elsewhere. The President returned to the Chair. Indeed, prosperity and security will occur only if and when we decide to respect and promote human rights. It is our obligation to address and to act on human rights violations wherever they occur, and we must do so in a spirit of cooperation and understanding. It is our common duty to measure every Member State’s actual performance against the universal standards of human rights, including when that means naming and even shaming. Otherwise, we risk undermining important norms of human decency and behaviour. All Governments must remember that they are in office for the people and not for themselves. For those reasons, Denmark strongly supports the establishment of the Human Rights Council as a permanent, principal organ of the United Nations, as well as the overall strengthening of the entire United Nations human rights machinery, including the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Sixty years after the creation of this Organization, we should give human rights the necessary attention and priority in order to meet the expectations of the people, whom we are meant to serve. The grave crimes against humanity committed in Darfur serve as a reminder to the international community. Impunity is unacceptable. Some argue that we face a dilemma every time a country emerges from conflict. They argue that the pursuit of justice clashes with the pursuit of peace. However, peace and justice are not contradictory but, in fact, complementary. The precedent created by the referral of the Darfur situation to the International Criminal Court is promising. It is a major step forward in the fight against impunity and bodes well for the pursuit of international justice. Lastly, let me briefly address the call by the Secretary-General and Member States, including Denmark, for management reform. The Secretary- General must be given the necessary discretionary powers, accompanied by accountability and independent oversight. We need to modernize the way we work so as to enable the Organization to meet its share of the priorities set out at the summit. The coming months will be crucial. The outcome of the summit must be implemented. We will be faced with many difficult but important tasks. They will have to be solved in a true spirit of international cooperation. We must strengthen this great institution. It has a vital role to play in the world of today. Denmark will spare no effort in doing its share.At the outset I would like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. I have known you personally for a long time as a very skilful and highly professional diplomat and I wish you every success in making new achievements in that highly responsible post. I would also like to express our appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for the competence and dedication with which he guided the work of the fifty- ninth session of the General Assembly. While it is too early to assess the impact of the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1) adopted at the High-level Plenary Meeting, I will venture to say that the path leading up to it was thorny, if not challenging, at times. Azerbaijan has always been and will remain committed to the purposes, principles and values enshrined in the United Nations Charter and other landmark documents. Respect for the norms and principles of international law and diligent observance of international obligations by Member States serve as indicators of their adherence to those values and principles. Azerbaijan fully supports a collective approach to security. We are committed to taking concerted action, in conformity with the United Nations Charter, to remove threats to peace and security, foster sustainable 24 economic development and support democracy- building and protection of human rights. We reaffirm our determination to continue the reforms that will eventually improve the functional capacity of the United Nations and its decision-making processes, especially with regard to crisis and conflict management. Since our accession to the United Nations, the Organization has been closely associated in our society with our hopes for the liberation of the territories of Azerbaijan occupied by Armenia. Although the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) is deeply involved in the settlement process, the prompt response of the Security Council to the occupation of the territories of Azerbaijan and the adoption of four Security Council resolutions — 822 (1993), 853 (1993), 874 (1993) and 884 (1993) — still gives us hope for the peaceful settlement of the conflict in and around the Nagorny Karabakh region of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The principles unanimously adopted by the Security Council in those resolutions continue to be the basis for the settlement of the conflict. Last year the General Assembly’s consideration of the agenda item entitled “The situation in the occupied territories of Azerbaijan” played a crucial role in attracting attention to the dangerous practices carried out by Armenia in the occupied territories of Azerbaijan. As for the negotiation process itself, I must admit that we are now at a critical juncture where the chances for resolution of the conflict are cautiously optimistic. The Government of Azerbaijan remains committed to the peaceful settlement of this protracted conflict, based on respect for the norms and principles of international law, the implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions and related OSCE documents and decisions. We expect that the Armenian side will take a similarly constructive approach and will not miss this window of opportunity. There is no room for illusions. Azerbaijan will never compromise its territorial integrity. Only the return of all the occupied territories to Azerbaijan will help restore our trust and confidence in Armenia and its declared intention of establishing good-neighbourly relations with Azerbaijan. Such a step would remove the label of aggressor from the Government of Armenia — a label it inherited after it occupied the territories of Azerbaijan — and allow both parties to benefit from the opportunities the settlement of the conflict will bring. We are ready to provide security assurances for the Armenian population of the Nagorny Karabakh region of Azerbaijan. As for the status of the region, it is necessary to create favourable conditions for the secure and dignified return of the expelled Azerbaijani population to the Nagorny Karabakh region and to other occupied territories, to establish normal living conditions there and to provide opportunities for economic development for both communities. Once the agreement is achieved, for both political and legal guarantees of its implementation we will need the international community’s support for the deployment of multinational peacekeeping forces, demining, the restoration of communications, the rehabilitation of lands and the provision of security guarantees for the population in the Nagorny Karabakh region of Azerbaijan, including the creation of local police forces in the region for both Armenian and Azerbaijani communities. Last but not least, I should like to make a point on conflict resolution. It concerns the issue of the communication of Armenians living in the Nagorny Karabakh region of Azerbaijan with Armenia and that of Azerbaijanis living in the Nakhchivan region of Azerbaijan with the rest of the country. We suggest that the so-called Lachin corridor — which should be called a road of peace — be used by both sides in both directions, provided that security on the road is ensured by the multinational peacekeeping force in the initial stage. The road’s importance extends beyond the practical benefits of direct transport communications between Armenia and Azerbaijan; the road should be considered, first and foremost, as the path leading to peace and cooperation in the South Caucasus region. Today, from this rostrum, after the recent meeting of the Presidents of Azerbaijan and Armenia, held in Kazan on 26 August 2005, I urge the Armenian side not to miss this opportunity to move the negotiation process forward with the assistance of the Co-Chairmen of the OSCE Minsk Group, in accordance with the key understandings reached in the Prague process. Azerbaijan believes that development reinforces democratic transformation, the rule of law and respect 25 for human rights. We agree that it is urgent and important to achieve the international development agenda. The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) remain an indispensable part of that agenda and represent measures of States’ contributions to and impacts on global efforts in their quest for a better existence. Cooperation in the areas of debt, assistance and trade can open up new opportunities for development financing and can reinforce national efforts to mobilize needed resources. Here, the special development needs of Africa deserve serious attention. Azerbaijan therefore welcomes the recent decision by the Group of Eight Governments to cancel the debt of heavily indebted poor countries. We also consider official development assistance to be an important investment in self-sustaining development. We firmly believe that, if aid is to be effective, greater interagency coordination is required at all levels. The United Nations Development Group and the United Nations Resident Coordinator have a critical role to play in this field. We fully support the strengthening of both structures. Yet another area requiring increased cooperation is international trade. Addressing issues related to improving market access and terms of trade as well as overcoming supply side constraints can revive the Doha round. Azerbaijan believes that the 2005 world summit will renew the sense of urgency to build strong political will and a coherent policy approach aimed at creating a more favourable multilateral trade system during the forthcoming ministerial meeting of the World Trade Organization, to be held in Hong Kong. In the meantime, we believe that the development challenges of landlocked developing countries should be effectively addressed, bearing in mind the recently adopted Asunción Platform for the Doha Development Round. We recognize the crucial role of regional organizations, including United Nations regional commissions, in enhancing regional cooperation to promote sustainable development. Azerbaijan places emphasis on the development of transregional transport and communication lines and makes its contribution through the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan oil pipeline and the Baku-Tbilisi-Erzerum natural gas pipeline. We also look forward to the building of a new Baku- Akhalkalaki-Tbilisi-Kars railroad. Azerbaijan is committed to poverty eradication and has identified it as an overarching goal in its development strategies. Although we are encouraged by the implementation perspectives presented in the report of the Millennium Project, we highlight the need for assistance to complement the efforts of national leadership, especially in the areas of capacity-building, science and technology and environmental protection. The achievement of the Millennium Development Goals requires not only public investment in infrastructure and human capital, but also investment in improving governance, which includes an efficient, properly resourced and adequately staffed institutional system as well as political accountability, transparency and participation. Azerbaijan attaches particular importance to progress in this area. In recognition of the central role of good governance in poverty reduction and development, we have formulated additional national MDGs to address governance issues. Specific targets in that area include, inter alia, reform of the overall State system of public administration, legislation and policy by the year 2015. Recognizing the destructive effects of natural disasters on the sustainable development of countries and communities, Azerbaijan, as a disaster-prone country, believes that efforts aimed at disaster mitigation should place particular emphasis on awareness-raising programmes and on the development of early warning capacities. It is clear that national ownership of the design, implementation and coordination of humanitarian response and transition programmes in both post- disaster and post-conflict situations is essential to ensure the desired impact and the sustainability of such programmes. However, there is a need for the efficient sharing of responsibilities between national authorities and international humanitarian and development actors, particularly in protracted humanitarian situations with mass displacement and limited national capacities to tackle all existing problems. Humanitarian assistance and funding should not be limited to providing immediate responses to crises; they must take into account long-term needs in the transition phase. Promoting human rights and the rule of law has been an integral part of our national development strategy as a result of our conviction that the full enjoyment of human rights, while a goal in itself, serves as a foundation for sustainable development. We 26 need to increase our ability to deal with human rights challenges and to adequately respond to them, particularly in times of conflict and crisis. In conclusion, I would like to assure the Assembly that Azerbaijan will remain committed to the ideals that are the foundation of the Organization, and to express my confidence that at this critical juncture for multilateralism, the international community will spare no effort to make the United Nations more efficient and more relevant to the needs of its Member States.This is the first time that a representative from the island of Barbuda has had the honour to address the General Assembly. For my country, the nation of Antigua and Barbuda - and, more important, for my fellow Barbudans - this is indeed a historic and significant milestone. The Government and the people of Antigua and Barbuda have full confidence in the multilateral system, and in the United Nations as the primary instrument of multilateralism. Further, we believe that only through cooperation at the international level can micro-States like Antigua and Barbuda begin to address the global threats and challenges that jeopardize our existence, our way of life and our ability to make progress. Antigua and Barbuda attaches great importance to the work of the United Nations and to the outcome of the collective decisions of the family of nations. We look forward to safeguards for small developing States in all stages of multilateral processes, and specifically in the outcome document of the 2005 world summit (resolution 60/1). Taking stock of the achievement of the objectives of the outcome of major United Nations conferences and summits is a task we approach with trepidation. 15 Antigua and Barbuda is attempting to achieve and sustain a decent standard of living for our people and for future generations. Our progress report is a mixed one, tinged with both hope and frustration. We are hopeful because we have achieved a lot with our meagre resources. In the face of severe economic hardship, we have managed to achieve a literacy rate of over 90 per cent among young people aged 15 to 25 years. Access to primary and secondary education is mandatory and is provided free of cost by the Government to all students aged 5 to 16. All public school students are provided with school uniforms and the required textbooks free of cost. To accommodate our expanding student population, only this week we commissioned a new school on my island of Barbuda. Poor people need access to the necessary resources so that they can take charge of their own development. That is why the Barbudan people are extremely proud of what we consider to be a very progressive land policy for the ownership of land on our island. The Barbuda Lands Act, which is scheduled to be introduced in Parliament shortly, stipulates that all land on Barbuda be owned in common by the Barbudan people. In the area of health care, we in Antigua and Barbuda have a national medical benefits programme that provides low-cost access to health-care services and prescription drugs. Our child mortality rate is among the lowest in developing countries, and our nutrition level for children aged 5 years and under is among the highest. The promotion of gender equality and the empowerment of women has been a priority area for Antigua and Barbuda. We signed and ratified the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, and are currently working on the ratification of the Convention's Optional Protocol. With regard to the Millennium Development Goal pertaining to the empowerment of women, Antigua and Barbuda has made noteworthy strides. Our first woman was elected to Parliament in the last general elections. Our Speaker of Parliament and our President of the Senate are women, and there are two women in our Cabinet. Concerted efforts have been made to promote women's political participation at all levels. In spite of such progress, however, we continue to experience a high level of frustration with regard to development. That is because the progress we have made thus far is at risk of being wiped away. As a middle-income small island developing State, we are continually handed the sharp edge of the sword to hold when it comes to a number of issues of international development. It is as if we were being punished by the international community for having achieved some measure of progress with very meagre resources and despite severe external challenges. The Monterrey Consensus represents a pact between developed and developing countries, the objective of which is the scaling up of financing for development. Yet there is nothing in the Monterrey Consensus that so-called middle-income countries can benefit from. We have fulfilled the responsibilities accorded to Governments of developing countries as stipulated in the Monterrey Consensus. We continue to go beyond those responsibilities to consolidate the principles of accountability, transparency and good governance in laws we introduced in Parliament in the seventh month of the first term of the incumbent Government of Antigua and Barbuda. All of that took place against a backdrop of a declining trend in the flow of official development assistance (ODA) to the Caribbean region. It is necessary for international agreements on financing for development, such as the Monterrey Consensus, to include all developing countries, and not sideline those that have achieved some measure of progress. Our frustration with the Monterrey Consensus, and with financing for development in general, would not be so acute were it not been for the brutal challenges we face in other areas that are potential engines for economic growth and development. We have been forced to ask ourselves if a pro- development trade regime is something the international community really wants. Our neighbours in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) have been dragged through brutal trade battles, struggling to keep alive their agricultural sector, namely, the banana and sugar industries. The Caribbean Community has for years been lamenting the importance of those two sectors to the livelihood of our people. A pro- development trade regime would not amputate the feet of such small vulnerable players and leave them to haemorrhage. And that is exactly what has transpired with regard to our banana- and sugar-producing CARICOM neighbours. 16 As if that were not enough, we in Antigua and Barbuda now find ourselves under attack in yet another sector. Last week, during the 2005 world summit, the Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda (see A/60/PV.4) spoke of the need for us to seek the intervention of the World Trade Organization in the dispute with the United States over Internet gaming. With trade in agriculture proving continually difficult for developing States in general, and for small island States in particular, the services sector is just about the only option we currently have for diversification. For Antigua and Barbuda, the tourism sector has been good to us, but it is extremely volatile, and our high levels of environmental and economic vulnerability necessitate strategically identifying other options for economic growth and development. One such option is Internet gaming. But due to the unfair trade practices of highly developed countries, notably the United States, we are finding it increasingly difficult to realize development benefits from Internet gaming. In addition to that, the principle of special and differential treatment for countries with special needs, such as small island developing States, is under perpetual assault by highly developed countries. After careful consideration and evaluation, we are forced to conclude that there is nothing tangible for small developing States in the Monterrey Consensus. We are losing the battle on the issue of trade, and so we attempt to hitch our proverbial wagon to foreign direct investment as a means of stimulating economic growth and development. But once again, our efforts meet with frustration. Why? Because of unsustainable debt. Our experience has shown that highly indebted countries find it extremely difficult to attract private international finance. The international community now realizes the importance of debt reduction and debt forgiveness to development. We urge that the situation of heavily indebted middle-income countries be given serious attention by the international community. If more is not done to address the debt problem of middle-income countries, we risk reversing our development gains. Instead of a reduction, the net result may actually be increasing levels of poverty. Antigua and Barbuda fully supports all efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). With regard to environmental sustainability, small islands like Antigua and Barbuda face the challenge of very limited land space and fragile ecosystems, and are highly vulnerable to natural disasters and the effects of climate change. Compounding those challenges is our heavy dependence on the natural environment to support our tourism product, which accounts for almost 80 per cent of our gross national income. Two thirds of the island of Barbuda is merely a few feet above sea level. Threats to our natural environment are threats to our very way of life and existence. We therefore welcome paragraphs 51 to 53 in the 2005 world summit outcome document on the issue of climate change. The devastation wrought by the increased intensity of hurricanes has set us back years, even decades, on the development scale. Antigua and Barbuda stresses the need for policies to mitigate the effects of hurricanes and other natural disasters on small developing States, as well as the establishment of an effective system of long-term support for countries recovering from disasters. International drug trafficking has major security implications for our islands. Drug traffickers often use our shores and surrounding waters as trans-shipment points for their illegal cargo, resulting in an increase in the criminal element within our fragile societies. Those criminals operate within very sophisticated networks that are beyond the reach and capacity of our resources. It is a situation that puts the security of the entire region at risk. This is one area that begs for greater international attention. Antigua and Barbuda is in agreement with many of the recommendations to strengthen the United Nations, as contained in the outcome document of the 2005 world summit. We support those reform proposals, the objective of which is to make the United Nations more democratic, increase its legitimacy and enhance its work. At a time when multilateralism is coming under attack, we, as small developing States, remain ever mindful of the need for the United Nations. We share equally in the quest for peace and security and are heartened by the growing recognition that there can be no peace and security without development. We call for further and unambiguous acknowledgement of the security-development nexus and for the economic development of all countries to be accorded equal priority as international peace and security.I wish to extend warm greetings of iokwe from the people of the Marshall Islands as we gather for the sixtieth session of the Assembly. I am honoured to speak on behalf of President Kessai H. Note, who had to leave New York ahead of schedule due to an urgent matter at home. Sixty years have passed since a visionary course of action was charted recognizing that freedom, justice and peace in the world are based on the inherent dignity, equality and inalienable rights of all. The world has felt the direct impact of the United Nations, and we have good reason to be grateful. Critics notwithstanding, our Organization has served the global community and has touched every aspect of our lives. The Marshall Islands is grateful for the United Nations, for without it, how could a small remote island nation express its concerns, be heard, and be on common ground with the rich and powerful? Five years after we made a unanimous commitment to peace, liberty and sustainable development, we have gathered here again to take concrete measures. We approved last Friday an instrument that the Secretariat and the General Assembly can build upon in streamlining the United Nations and in meeting the many new challenges of the twenty-first century. All aspects of life in the Marshall Islands have been profoundly affected by its extraordinary history, which encompasses a Pacific war and the legacy of nuclear testing. Its remoteness, size and vulnerability continue to limit opportunities for the economic growth of the Marshall Islands. In finding ways to work together for the betterment of the population, traditional leaders and representatives of our national and local governments, non-governmental organizations, and private and public sectors convened last month in a special retreat - an opportunity for everyone involved to build trust and to think and work together in crafting a shared vision that can and will ensure the prosperity of the people. We continue to move beyond words to action. We continue also to engage actively in regional activities in the Pacific, including through our regional organizations, such as the Pacific Islands Forum. A great deal of work has been done in the development of the Pacific Plan, a strategy for broader regional cooperation based on the key goals of economic growth, sustainable development, good governance and security. The Plan will be presented to Forum leaders when they meet next month. It will also be discussed at our small island States meeting, which the Marshall Islands chairs. In the international arena, we continue to reaffirm our solidarity with the Alliance of Small Island States. We are grateful for the support of the General Assembly in its endorsement of the Declaration and Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, adopted at the Mauritius International Meeting last January. The Strategy requires quick and practical action to address the unique challenges facing the sustainable development of small island developing States. The Marshall Islandsí small resource base, limited market access, fragile environment, vulnerability to climate change and variability, as well 25 as the high costs of energy, along with issues related to infrastructure, transportation and communications, are among the many constraints we face within the existing international economic environment. Our vulnerability to environmental and economic events continues to impede our opportunities for development. Our development efforts will be in vain if the results are reversed by continued degradation of the environment and depletion of natural resources. We are pleased that the Kyoto Protocol has now entered into force. However, some major emitters remain outside of it. A more inclusive international framework needs to be developed for stabilizing greenhouse-gas emissions beyond 2012, with broader participation by all major emitters - developed and developing countries. Climate change is a serious and long-term challenge that has the potential to affect every part of the world. It is time to undertake concrete actions and measures at all levels. In that context, we welcome the progress made in terms of the establishment and development of an all-hazard early warning system. United Nations international efforts were very swift and effective in the wake of the devastating tsunami in the Indian Ocean and, more recently, following Hurricane Katrina in the southern United States. We hope that the international community will not act so humanely only in the aftermath of natural disasters but also in the context of the far less dramatic, but no less crucial global actions needed to mitigate climate change and arrest sea-level rise before it is too late to act and the people of the Marshall Islands and others become environmental refugees. On health issues, the Marshall Islands continues to face the challenges associated in dealing with major diseases such as diabetes, influenza, bird flu, SARS and the risk of the rapid spread of HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases. Despite the difficulties we face in addressing these challenges, we are proud of, and grateful for, the involvement of the traditional leadership, which has contributed to the substantial progress made at the local and national levels. We are in the final stages of completing the HIV/AIDS National Strategic Plan. Our ambition to carry out this task is strong, but we cannot do it alone. The support of the international community is extremely important to help build our capacity; to strengthen our human resources; to help us implement effective public education programmes that will encourage behavioural change among the high-risk groups in our population; and to provide technical assistance to facilitate prompt access to the Global Fund and other financial sources to combat HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, diabetes and malaria. We have integrated family planning and maternal and child health programmes into reproductive health services, and we fully support the initiatives on accessibility to reproductive health services under the Millennium Development Goals. On sustainable development, the Marshall Islands has established a task force to ensure that the Millennium Development Goals are fully integrated into our national strategy. One challenge we continue to face is the need for human and technical resources, but, despite that and other challenges, we are determined to work towards achieving the Goals. During this, the first policy year of its first implementation cycle, we recognize the important precedent set by the thirteenth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development as to how future cycles could be conducted and what type of outcomes could be expected. The Marshall Islands is working hard to improve access to freshwater, develop environmentally responsible waste management systems and provide affordable and renewable energy sources. Our programme would be impossible without the continued support of the international community and development partners, for which we are always grateful. One issue that continues to haunt the people of the Marshall Islands is the effects of nuclear weapons testing. When people in most parts of the world talk about nuclear devastation, they tend to think of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. However, few are aware that the Marshall Islands experienced the equivalent of 1.6 Hiroshima-sized bombs every day during the 12 years that numerous nuclear weapons were detonated and tested in our country. Interestingly, this took place while the Marshall Islands was part of the United Nations Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. We would like to emphasize the need for full resolution of this issue based on the changed circumstances that have come to light and the new information gathered from recent scientific and medical studies on radiological safety, clean-up and the 26 malignant effects of radiation on health. I call on the international community to support the Marshall Islands in this endeavour. The Marshall Islands has experienced the far- reaching and invasive effects of a nuclear testing programme on the most intimate and personal levels: from home islands no longer inhabitable to the illness and death of many of our friends and families. We can prepare our health system to deal with this burden, but we can never remedy the human and emotional toll that this has had and continues to have on us as individuals, families, communities and as a nation. Concerning disarmament and non-proliferation, we believe that sustainable peace and development will not be achieved without major steps towards disarmament. Reiterating our firm commitment to the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, we look forward to strengthening its implementation, including through future review conferences. As a nation whose single most important productive sector and key export are its fisheries, the state of the worldís oceans and fish stocks and how these vital resources are being exploited remain our utmost concern. We recognize the importance of the Convention on the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean. We remain seriously concerned about instances of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing within our exclusive economic zone. The continued assistance of the international community is needed in building capacity for monitoring and surveillance in this regard. The global threat the world faces today is a challenge of a different nature from anything we have had to deal with before. We recognize how poverty, environmental degradation and the abuse of human rights undermine human security. We welcome the recent adoption of the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. We continue to cooperate closely within the Pacific region to ensure that effective regional action is taken to combat threats to our peace and security. We have taken steps to combat money-laundering and the financing of terrorism and to implement the twelve core anti- terrorism conventions and relevant Security Council resolutions. In our global effort to counter terrorism, agreeing on the definition of terrorism is one of the many issues that requires serious consideration and resolution. Concerning the Middle East peace process, we commend the determination and strong resolve of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in his effort to reinvigorate the Middle East peace process by fulfilling Israelís pledge to withdraw from the Gaza Strip. Concerning the International Criminal Court, we welcome its progress in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Uganda and Darfur situations. We are also pleased with the entry into force of the agreement between the International Criminal Court and the United Nations. We continue to call on all States to strengthen the rule of law around the world by ratifying the Rome Statute governing that Court. Bearing in mind the phrase 'we the peoples' in the Preamble to the Charter, Marshall Islands believes that if the United Nations adheres to the principles of universality and self-determination, it must not exclude the 23 million people of the free, democratic and independent nation of Taiwan. As a free and prosperous country, Taiwan has much to contribute to the peace and security of the Western Pacific, and we reiterate our full support for the ongoing quest of the people of Taiwan to be granted membership in this family of nations. Denying membership to a free and democratic nation and condoning the presence of repressive States is a flagrant violation of basic democratic principles. In a world divided by chasms between the rich and the poor, between the powerful and the powerless, differences of interest are certain to shape all our reform efforts and perpetuate a contradictory and divided Organization. We share the aspirations of a United Nations guided by the following values and principles: belief in multilateral cooperation, the imperative of prevention, respect for the rule of law and human rights, solidarity with the poor and suffering, concern for the rights of women and the children of the world and their future, and for the health of Planet Earth. We reiterate our support for reform and expansion of the Security Council, using a criteria-based approach based on factors such as economic size, population, commitment to democracy and human rights, financial contribution to the United Nations, contributions to peacekeeping and record on counter- terrorism and non-proliferation. 27 The Marshall Islands will continue to participate in this sessionís important debates on how to reform and strengthen the United Nations as an institution and how to ensure that it effectively addresses the threats and challenges of the twenty-first century. We assure you of our full cooperation towards the goal of a strong, effective and accountable Organization.The sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations is cause for inspiration, concern and action. It is a source of inspiration because 60 years of collective action for peace and development is an anniversary to celebrate. And what better time to do so than on the International Day of Peace? It is a cause for concern because the challenges, far from diminishing, have continued to grow, and we have not reached a consensus on a whole range of essential reforms. Some important components are missing. It is a call for action because all of us here have recognized that the United Nations remains an indispensable instrument and because change is still needed. We have no choice: we must move forward. But we have come a long way. Two years ago, the United Nations was in a sorry state indeed; the situation in Iraq not only had divided the membership but had left deep scars within our institution. That is why I pay tribute to the Secretary-General for having established the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, whose report (A/59/565) has truly revolutionized how all of us think about the Organization’s future. Jeffrey Sachs and his colleagues also delivered to us a remarkable document on “Investing in Development” — development that Canada has done so much to promote ever since the era of Lester Pearson. In “In larger freedom” (A/59/2005), the Secretary-General summarized that work with clarity and discernment and set out an ambitious plan for us. We have not adopted all of his recommendations — far from it. We could have, and should have, done better. The summit is by no means the end of the debate. To the contrary, we have a mandate to continue our efforts and to make this sixtieth-anniversary year a year of reform. We are all aware of the risks of unilateralism or piecemeal multilateralism. But we are not sufficiently aware that humanity’s future lies in accepting the inextricable links among security, development and human rights. To predict the future is to understand the past, so it behoves us all to look back over the 60 years of our Organization. The contribution of the United Nations to the progress of humanity is indisputable. The Organization’s successes, more than its failures, show us the path to take so that we can meet current and future challenges. Let us not forget that in 1945 the whole world was rising from ruins and States were determined that that would never happen again. So it is not surprising that the first objective expressed in the Charter of the United Nations centred on security so as to “save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind”. We have known the horrors of war over the past 60 years, but we have avoided descending into the hell of a third world war. How did we do that? At the United Nations, the super-Powers had no choice. Under the aegis of the Organization, they concluded major disarmament and arms control agreements. In sum, the role played by the United Nations in ending the stand off between East and West is one of the greatest successes of the past century. (spoke in English) Sixty years ago, the nations meeting in San Francisco set the second objective: to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small. The founders of the United Nations foresaw that if we were to avoid the conflicts of the past, the world of tomorrow needed to be more human. With that in mind, Canada’s John Humphrey worked hard to help draft the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 14 We have become ever more demanding about the protection of human rights — including women’s rights — as well we should be. We are duty-bound to prevent or combat flagrant violations, which still plague the world. The Commission on Human Rights has played a key role in that respect, but its serious shortcomings unfortunately eclipse its valuable contributions, necessitating its replacement. Mr. Mwakwere (Kenya), Vice-President, took the Chair. History shows that democracy and human rights go hand in hand. The United Nations has entrenched human rights through a series of legal instruments that Governments concluded under the Organization’s aegis and has extended a range of protections, such as conventions on eliminating discrimination against women, on children’s rights and against torture. The United Nations remains a key forum for debating human rights failures around the world. And it is in that area that the Organization has played a leading role in changing global culture, fostering the acceptance of new standards and setting criteria for judging Governments’ actions. That is another remarkable success for the United Nations. The third objective of the Charter called on Members to establish conditions under which justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained. For 60 years, the United Nations has been at the heart of a vast network of bilateral and regional treaties covering nearly the gamut of international relations. In so doing, the Organization has helped to bring about an infinitely more integrated world where interactions among peoples take place in a predictable fashion and within a defined regulatory framework. This global legal framework is the foundation of peace. Where the framework has not yet taken shape, conflicts multiply. The world needs the United Nations to perfect this tremendous asset. The fourth objective of the Charter touched at the heart of our debate today on the Millennium Development Goals, calling on members to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom. That message was prophetic at the time. The founders of the United Nations already foresaw that beyond the massive destruction of 1939 to 1945, a fundamental poverty afflicted almost every country and region in the world — a poverty that had to be fought unwaveringly. Today, we salute their hope and their desire to create a better, safer and more prosperous world. Among the surest ways in which to create that type of world are the growing participation of women in economic, civil and political life and the emergence of a middle class, both of which justify hope for real progress on the road to growth. Those promising trends need to be accelerated. The United Nations has played a fundamental role on that front. Its specialized agencies and affiliates have helped set development objectives and have delivered the bulk of international aid. Thanks to those efforts, the world is a better place to live in today. And today, five years after the Millennium Development Goals were adopted, the United Nations is where the world’s nations recall their common commitment to development, with a keener understanding, since the Monterrey summit, of the obligations that we all must bear. With respect to the four major objectives of the Charter, comparing ideals against reality inevitably brings disappointment. For each major step forward, there have been many failures, in particular the absence of a collective will to adapt our institution to current needs. Where are we now, and what do we need to do to better respond to our hopes? The starting point is clearly the document (resolution 60/1) approved by heads of State or Government last week. That document is a foundation on which, with a great deal of political will on the part of all Members, we can think of renewing the United Nations. In any case, we have a working framework for the years to come. I am especially pleased that the document includes strong references to development and to the values and principles that inspire us. The declaration also provides clear, important directions on United Nations management, transparency and accountability. But we need to go much further in that direction. I would now like to address some of the points raised in the declaration. First is the “responsibility to protect”. In recognizing that responsibility, this body has taken a step that goes beyond utterances of “Never again” — a step that brings us closer to making 15 genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity things of the past. We now need to implement it. Secondly, with respect to the Human Rights Council, Canada is disappointed that members did not show greater courage. We have not established the Council; we have only the mandate to work on that issue this year. We need such a Council because it will help us take an in-depth look at situations of concern to us, such as that in Iran. Canada’s position is clear: the Council must be a permanent body, with members elected by a two-thirds majority, on the basis of specific criteria, and it must provide for a system of peer review, starting with the countries that will sit on the Council. I am pleased, however, that the High Commissioner for Human Rights will have a bigger budget. (spoke in French) Thirdly, let me turn to the Peacebuilding Commission. Here again, our work is unfinished. A reference to a sequential relationship between the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council could have been a solution to the question of relations between the Commission and existing bodies. The fourth point is global health. The United Nations must make every effort to protect threatened populations. HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria still plague the world, to our collective shame. We have a shared responsibility to eliminate those diseases; we can and must do better. We need to prepare for pandemics, including avian flu, on which Canada recently hosted an international meeting of health ministers. Fifthly, with respect to terrorism, the attacks that took place this past summer in London, in Egypt and elsewhere make it more necessary than ever that there be a global convention in the war on terror. But we must also bear in mind that the overall global security architecture must be strengthened, from light weapons to weapons of mass destruction, including the whole range of disarmament and arms control measures. We can certainly be heartened by the progress that is being made in the Middle East, Haiti, the Sudan and Afghanistan, high-priority regions for Canada and where United Nations action is often exemplary. But that success remains fragile, and the commitment of the United Nations must continue. Sixthly, concerning the environment, if we want to leave future generations a planet that is a healthy place to live, we need jointly to manage its environment. In less than two months, Montreal will play host to a climate-change conference that should represent a milestone in terms of our common thinking and action in the face of that phenomenon. We will be discussing the progress made in implementing the Kyoto Protocol and new possibilities for action in the decades to come. Let me conclude with a few thoughts on what the final document does not say, or at least does not say well. First, on disarmament, it is deplorable that a United Nations outcome document could contain not one paragraph on disarmament and non-proliferation at a time when we are debating Iran’s and North Korea’s nuclear programmes. Secondly, on women’s rights, it is deeply regrettable that the document could not even reiterate as forcefully the commitments made 10 years ago in Beijing or Cairo on women’s rights and gender equality, despite the fact that they lie at the very heart of the Millennium Development Goals. All Member States need to implement their provisions and move from promises to action. Thirdly, on the International Criminal Court, Canada regrets the absence of any reference in the document to the International Criminal Court, as well as its silence on commitments to end impunity. It is imperative that the United Nations address the issue of impunity. Two years ago, when the Rome Statute came into force, the Secretary- General clearly stated that “the time is at last coming when humanity no longer has to bear impotent witness to the worst atrocities, because those tempted to commit such crimes will know that justice awaits them”. We urge all States to sign and ratify the Rome Statute. Together, we will break the cycle of impunity, and justice will be done for the victims of such crimes. We are meeting in New York today to help solve humanity’s problems. But while this Hall has witnessed too many unresolved debates and far too much costly inaction, the challenges and problems we discuss lie far afield. Over the years we have confronted grave challenges in the Sudan, Haiti, Kosovo and Rwanda, and in many other places. In some cases, we can hold 16 our heads high; in others, we need to recognize, and learn from, our mistakes and failures. I think we have charted the course, but we still have far to travel.The delegation of the Republic of Sierra Leone wishes to express its profound appreciation for the significant contribution of the President of the General Assembly at its fifty- ninth session to the work of the Assembly and to congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the leadership of this body at its sixtieth session. You and your predecessor will always have a special place in the history of the United Nations as Presidents of the General Assembly at the height of the Organization’s reform process. The United Nations was founded on the principle of multilateral cooperation for the maintenance of international peace and security. For 60 years, it has been the focus of its Members — rich and poor, big and small — for carrying out that critical responsibility. Today, for many of its Members, the Organization is the great hope, not only for the achievement of peace and security, but also for the attainment of every objective of human aspiration, particularly development, human rights, freedom and democracy. The United Nations was designed to serve the world of the aftermath of the Second World War — a world different in many ways from today’s world. That is why my delegation has welcomed with total commitment reforms in the United Nations system to reflect the realities of today’s world, and we will continue to participate fully in the reform process. We welcome the outcome document (resolution 60/1) of last week’s summit and applaud the negotiations that led to its adoption by consensus. The success of those negotiations indicate that, in spite of our differences and individual sovereign interests, Member States recognize that we have more things in common than things that divide us and that, for a better world, common interests must enjoy precedence over individual interests. The rhetoric that has accompanied the outcome document has been impressive and reassuring, especially for developing countries and countries in conflict or emerging from conflict. If those soothing statements are matched by action, this year’s United Nations summit and General Assembly session will have a landmark effect on the Organization and on the world. We are optimistic that it will. This is the last Assembly session before the completion of the withdrawal of the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL) at the end of December. UNAMSIL has achieved successes that are unique in the history of United Nations peacekeeping efforts. Sierra Leoneans will forever remember the positive difference that the Mission made in their 2 country’s crisis and in their lives. For that, we can never sufficiently thank the United Nations and the entire international community for coming to our rescue and for standing by us when we could not stand alone. In particular, we are profoundly grateful to countries that contributed troops to UNAMSIL and countries that financially supported the Mission. With a tremendous feeling of relief, we welcome the proposal to constitute an integrated United Nations office to succeed UNAMSIL, with the objective of supporting Sierra Leone in continuing to address critical areas of concern, including the causes of the conflict, consolidating the peace, human rights, development, legal, judicial and governance reforms, the rule of law and security. That measure has allayed the fears of Sierra Leoneans that UNAMSIL’s departure would create a security vacuum and would mark the end of programmes associated with the Mission. We eagerly look forward to yet another success in the United Nations peacekeeping experiment in Sierra Leone. Today, the Organization is preparing to transform its peacekeeping functions in Sierra Leone to meet some of the post-conflict needs of the country. That is a landmark decision that could serve as a model for effective coordination of strategies and programmes among the United Nations, its agencies and programmes, and organizations and development partners in countries emerging from conflict. We note with interest that the architecture and plans for the operation of the new integrated office were based on close and extensive cooperation among relevant parties of the United Nations Secretariat and various United Nations agencies and organizations that constituted the country team. Sierra Leone hopes that that process of consultation and cooperation will continue. We urge the United Nations Mission to work closely with existing national institutions and with other initiatives that we have set up over the past five years to tackle post-conflict problems. We have no doubt that the new office will provide a “guinea pig” for the work of the proposed United Nations Peacebuilding Commission, to which we will spare no effort to lend support. As members are aware, it is not enough to establish these short-term yet essential post-conflict bridges; what we desperately need is the mobilization of resources, including those required for capacity- building for sustainable economic and social development. The objective is not merely to ensure that Sierra Leone and other countries emerging from conflict do not slide back into conflict; rather, the ultimate objective must be to ensure that Sierra Leoneans do not remain in abject poverty. The creation of the Peacebuilding Commission will be in consonance with the views expressed by my country’s President five years ago when, from this rostrum at the Millennium Summit, he spoke about the imperative of adaptation by the United Nations. He pleaded with the Organization to continue to adapt and equip itself to deal with the perennial problems and new manifestations of human insecurity and underdevelopment. He also spoke about some of the ways in which Sierra Leone had tested the capacity of the United Nations to adapt itself to respond to local and global challenges. The three main elements — development, peace and security and human rights — highlighted in the Secretary-General’s report entitled “In larger freedom” (A/59/2005) and in the outcome document (resolution 60/1) of last week’s High-level Plenary Meeting are all interrelated. However, as the document states, development is a central goal by itself. That is why no one should be surprised at the importance that Sierra Leone — a poor country emerging from a devastating conflict — attaches to the development cluster of the outcome document, including the section on ways in which to meet the special needs of Africa. The people of Sierra Leone continue to attach importance to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and to the commitments our heads of State or Government made in the Assembly five years ago. The principal purpose of the just-concluded High-level Plenary Meeting was to renew our determination to fulfil those commitments. The General Assembly would be interested to know that the food security objective of ensuring by the year 2007 that no Sierra Leonean goes to bed hungry is consistent with, and directly linked to, the MDGs; so are the objectives embodied in our Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. We are determined to continue to work with our development partners to achieve those objectives. For the overwhelming majority of us, “freedom from want” means the collective national and international responsibility to eradicate extreme 3 poverty, the collective responsibility to ensure that people in all regions of the world enjoy, first and foremost, their human right to food, basic health care, education, clean water and other amenities that sustain life. As we see it, “freedom from fear” means the collective responsibility of all States to remove and eliminate threats to the safety and security of people everywhere, such as the illicit traffic and use of small arms and the accumulation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. “Freedom from want” and “freedom from fear” also imply the responsibility to accept without reservation the relationship between disarmament and development. Furthermore, “freedom to live in dignity” implies the collective responsibility of all States to ensure that their peoples are treated with dignity. This includes the protection of all the economic, social, cultural, political and civil rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In our view, that responsibility implies cooperation and assistance where necessary to enhance the capacity for prevention and protection. In this connection, Sierra Leone is grateful for the assistance it continues to receive from the United Nations in the field of human rights. Sierra Leone has continued to make giant strides in all areas of human endeavour since the end of armed conflict in 2002. Since then, presidential, parliamentary and local elections — the latter ushering in a revival of local government that had been dormant for nearly 30 years — have been held in conformity with democratic principles and practice. We are now preparing for the 2007 presidential and parliamentary elections to consolidate further our gains in the democratic process. Sierra Leone believes that children are the best investment to ensure a bright future for our country. Consequently, we hold the view that development and respect for human rights start with them and that the Millennium Development Goals are a critical tool for achieving those goals. That is why we have increased the space devoted to education, as indicated by enrolment figures that have jumped from 659,503 in the 2001-2002 academic year to 1,158,399 in 2003- 2004 — this in a country whose total population is 5 million. We believe that the sound administration of justice, in particular strict adherence to the rule of law and human rights, is indispensable to attaining durable peace and political stability. Accordingly, the Government has re-established civil authority throughout Sierra Leone through the reopening and strengthening of judicial and law enforcement institutions, and we are in the process of establishing a national human rights commission. Two transitional institutions, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which has just published its report, and the Special Court, have contributed immensely to the peace process. It is the Government’s intention to implement the Commission’s recommendations, to which we attach great importance as a crucial instrument of durable peace. Let me take this opportunity to appeal to the United Nations, the international community and our friends to support the Special Court to enable it to accomplish its mandate. There is no doubt that the United Nations and the international community have made important strides in addressing impunity. However, it is our belief that the international community should do more than support the international tribunals, truth and reconciliation commissions and other mechanisms of a transitional justice system. It is our fervent hope that the process of peace and reconciliation in Sierra Leone will not end with the report of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission or the end of the work of the Special Court. Reconciliation would be incomplete without addressing the special needs of the victims of the heinous crimes that were perpetrated on civilians during the armed conflict. I solemnly appeal to the international community to assist us in supporting victims of war crimes and crimes against humanity. Within its limited resources, the Government has made every effort to address the special needs of the victims of the heinous crimes committed during the 11-year rebel armed conflict. But we need international support for these victims through, for instance, the Special Fund for War Victims envisaged under the 1999 Lomé Peace Agreement and the National Commission for War-Affected Children. This address would be incomplete without reference to the security situation in the West African subregion. While Sierra Leone is enjoying relative peace and stability and the capacity of its security forces continues to be enhanced by the International Military Advisory and Training Team, there is still an air of uncertainty in the neighbourhood and the 4 subregion. Because of the porosity of the borders and the historically fluid nature of the conflict in the subregion, we will feel safe and secure only in a conflict-free region. In the light of this, I would like to appeal to the United Nations, the international community and our friends to continue to support measures to resolve the conflicts that have plagued the subregion for so long and diverted scarce resources and energy from development. But let me remind members about the imperative of recognizing the fact that the achievement of lasting peace requires wholesome measure for the entire subregion. In particular, we recommend a subregional approach by the United Nations, the African Union, the European Union, the Economic Community of West African States and other interested parties to post-conflict activities, including disarmament, demobilization and reintegration, security-sector reform and post-conflict peacebuilding. Finally, at the time of the debate of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly, we should be reminded that the United Nations is and should remain at the centre of efforts to harmonize activities to attain its common objectives. This Organization belongs to us all and operates in the larger interest of all its members. Let this sixtieth anniversary be a time for recommitment to the principles and purposes of the Charter, a time for renewed determination to build on the successes of this great Organization.Actually, we have no reason to celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations. The chaotic, unequal and insecure world in which we are now living is not much of a tribute to those who gathered on 26 June 1945 in San Francisco to found the United Nations. From the conclusion of the Millennium Summit in 2000 until today, more of the world’s children have died of preventable diseases than all of the victims of the Second World War put together. The aggression against Iraq was launched, not just without regard to, but even counter to the opinion of the international community. That happened just two and a half years after having solemnly proclaimed at the Millennium Summit that “We are determined to establish a just and lasting peace all over the world in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter” (resolution 55/2, para. 4). The General Assembly could not even meet to discuss it. The Security Council was ignored and then had to undergo the humiliation of docilely accepting a predatory war that had earlier been opposed by a majority of its members. There is a clear explanation for the current state of affairs, which is that the order enshrined in the Charter pertained to a bipolar world and to a balance of power that no longer exists today. “We, the peoples” — as the Charter says — must bear the burden of a unipolar world, in which a single super-Power imposes its whims and selfish interests on the United Nations and the international community. Therefore, trying to get the United Nations to function in conformity with the principles and purposes enshrined in the Charter is make-believe. It is not possible. And it will not be possible as long as third world countries, which make up the majority of the world, fail to unite and fight together for their rights. Were the United States Government to comply with Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), adopted on 28 September 2001, and to the international conventions on terrorism, it would extradite the terrorist Luis Posada Carriles to Venezuela and release the five young Cuban anti-terrorist fighters who have been subjected to cruel and unjust imprisonment for seven years. Had the United States Government allowed the United Nations to act in accordance with the Charter, the Iraqi people would not have been invaded so that they could be robbed of their petroleum, the Palestinian 21 people would exercise sovereignty over their territory and Cuba would not continue to be blockaded. Nor would there be billions of illiterate people or 900 million starving human beings in the world. That explains the failure of last week’s summit, which was convened to assess compliance with the modest commitments entered into to fulfil the Millennium Development Goals and which ended as a pitiful imitation of what should have been a serious and committed debate concerning the grave problems currently besetting humankind. It was a complete farce. It was of no interest to the powerful. Their selfish and hegemonic interests run counter to the aspiration for a more just and better world for all. The scandalous pressures and blackmail brought to bear on Member States, after the United States Ambassador brandished the stick and attempted to impose 750 amendments on the outcome document, will go down in history as the most eloquent evidence that a new world and a new United Nations must be built, with respect for and recognition of the right to peace, sovereignty and development for all, without genocidal wars, blockades or injustice. The final negotiations, from which most United Nations Members were excluded, and the outcome document that was adopted, in which issues of vital interest for our peoples have been omitted, is a vivid illustration of what we are talking about. While we await the day in which that new world and the new United Nations can become a reality, we, the peoples, will continue to fight and, through our resistance, win once again the rights currently denied to us. The powerful only talk about interventions and preventive wars, about imposing draconian conditions or the most efficient ways to control the United Nations, while attempting to legitimize concepts such as the so-called responsibility to protect, which could be used one day to justify acts of aggression against our countries. Let us spell this out clearly: today there is no right to peace for the small. We as Cubans understand this very well, and we rely on the solidarity of peoples, on our united front and on our weapons, which have never been used except to defend just causes. Our brothers and sisters in Africa know this well. We are not pessimists; we are revolutionaries. We do not surrender or conform. Today, more resolutely than ever, we affirm that “we, the peoples” will overcome.Mr. President, on behalf of my delegation, allow me to congratulate Mr. Jan Eliasson on his election to preside over this session of the General Assembly. I should like also to take this opportunity to pay tribute to his predecessor for the exemplary manner in which he guided the work of the fifty-ninth session of the Assembly. Allow me also to thank the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his inspiring report entitled “In larger freedom: towards development, security and human rights for all”. It was 40 years ago today that the Maldives was admitted to the membership of the United Nations. We are very proud of that milestone. We were then the smallest country to have joined the United Nations, a fact which led to questions being asked in some quarters as to the viability of full membership for small States and their ability to assume it. We survived the so-called mini-State debate, thereby reinforcing the concept of the sovereign equality of all States, regardless of size. We also survived the cold war without losing the peace and stability that have been so essential to the social and economic progress of our people. But today we are facing a much more challenging task and much more serious questions about the economic viability of the country, whose economy has been devastated by the Indian Ocean tsunami. Compared to other affected countries, the loss of life and property damage in the Maldives were small in absolute numbers. But in proportionate terms, we are the worst-affected country. Some 62 per cent of the gross domestic product has been destroyed. More than 7 per cent of the population is internally displaced. The social and economic infrastructure was damaged or destroyed in over one quarter of all inhabited islands, 12 of which are now nothing but rubble. Given the nationwide scale of destruction, timely assistance from the international community was crucial in dealing with the emergency relief requirements. We thank all nations, peoples and organizations for their generosity. I would also like to extend a special vote of appreciation and thanks to President Bill Clinton, the United Nations Special Envoy for Tsunami Recovery, for his commitment and leadership in coordinating international efforts to assist affected countries with the recovery. We are particularly grateful for his continued engagement, given that nearly nine months after the tsunami, the situation in the country has not eased. There are still major funding gaps in the national economic recovery programme. An economy which had grown at an average of 8 per cent per annum during the past two decades is now forecast to contract by 3 per cent. Rising oil prices, unforeseen tsunami- related expenditures and tourism revenue shortfall are creating significant financial pressures requiring, for the first time in our history, budget support from donors. As a small country, the Maldives lays great store on assistance from the international community for its survival. We hope that our appeals for assistance will result in the extension of the support that is required to tide us over the current blip in the economy. It is ironic that just six days before the tsunami struck, the Assembly had voted to begin a transition period for the Maldives for graduation from least developed country status. While we recognize the achievements of our people through their diligent efforts and the support of the donor community, it is vital that trade preferences and other concessions not be phased out through graduation before the country recovers from the extensive destruction caused by the tsunami. The tsunami that struck the Indian Ocean was a grim reminder of the ferocity of the elements and the helplessness of communities exposed to natural disasters. Just as we support the establishment of a tsunami early warning system for the Indian Ocean, our thoughts are also with the millions of people in the United States, India, China, Japan and elsewhere who recently have faced extreme weather events which brought unprecedented death, destruction and pain. Our hearts go out to those in New Orleans affected by Hurricane Katrina. 17 One cannot overstate the importance of protecting the environment and saving lives. There is no longer a frontline comprising only small low-lying island States. Indeed, climate change can cause destruction anytime and anywhere. Prevention is the only option when there is no cure. We hope that the Kyoto Protocol will be implemented with full effectiveness. Small States have the narrowest margins of safety and the least ability to mitigate or overcome environmental catastrophes. We would like to assert the critical importance of the early and effective implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Small Island Developing States. Not only is the Maldives seeking to build back better after the tsunami but we are also going through a historic transformation of the governance structures of the country. The Agenda for Democracy and Reform being pursued by the Government focuses not only on making the Maldives a twenty-first century democracy, but also on strengthening human rights protection. With the acceleration of the Government’s reform programme over the past two years, sweeping changes have been brought to the political landscape of the Maldives. Political pluralism has been strengthened by introducing, for the first time in the country’s history, a multiparty system. The country is also undertaking unprecedented legal and judicial reforms aimed at a comprehensive modernization of the criminal justice system in order to bring it into compliance with international norms and standards. A Constitutional Assembly is in session to draw up a modern democratic constitution to embed liberal democracy in the country and strengthen adherence to international standards in civil liberties and the protection of human rights. Just last week, the Maldives signed on to the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. We are already committed to full transparency and openness in safeguarding human rights in the Maldives. We believe that the engagement of the international community is one of the strongest safeguards in protecting human rights. We have already acceded to a number of conventions on human rights and we are confident that the measures currently under way in the national reform programme will enable us to fully comply with and become parties to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. To recall Sir Winston Churchill, it would not be enough to say that we will do all that we can. Rather, we would like to say that we will do all that is required, and then some, to ensure that our people live in larger freedom, as envisaged in the United Nations Charter. We are mindful that under Article 2, paragraph 7, of the United Nations Charter Member States are not required to submit matters within their domestic jurisdiction for settlement in United Nations forums, but the Maldives believes that its aspirations to build a modern and mature democracy are important enough to be articulated before this Assembly. Moreover, given our limited resources and dearth of technical expertise, the support of the international community is vital for the success of the ambitious democracy project being pursued by the Government. We are indeed encouraged by the initiative to establish a Democracy Fund. I gratefully acknowledge the support being extended to us by the United Nations system and our bilateral partners in this historic enterprise in the Maldives. Today, on the occasion of the fortieth anniversary of the admission of the Maldives to the United Nations, my President wrote to the Secretary-General thanking him and the United Nations membership for their collaboration and support over the past four decades on matters of crucial national interest to the Maldives: we recall the support given by this Assembly to the requirements of protection and security of small States; we acknowledge the important role played by the United Nations membership in advancing efforts to protect the global environment; and we are gratified by the assistance that we are getting towards the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Already we are on track for attaining most of the MDGs. We hope that the outcome document of the High- level Plenary Meeting (resolution 60/1) will expedite the march of countries towards attainment of the MDGs and towards conquering disease, despair and deprivation. The July bombings in London and other incidents of terrorism have shocked and horrified us. We hope that measures agreed upon to combat international terrorism, strengthen peace and international security, promote peacebuilding and strengthen the United 18 Nations machinery on human rights protection will be followed up effectively. Sound multilateralism is crucial to our quest for a better world in an age of globalization. It is therefore important that the effectiveness of the United Nations be strengthened. We welcome the proposals made by the Secretary-General on all aspects of United Nations reform. While we recognize the need for comprehensive reforms, we hope that the reforms of the Security Council will be completed before the year’s end in order to enable it to reflect more fully the realities of the twenty-first century. Our support of the Group of Four proposal is based on those considerations and we hope that there will be wide support for it. We have consistently expressed concern about conflict and tension in the Middle East. We are encouraged by the Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip. We hope that this will be a first step in the movement towards a just and lasting peace in the Middle East. In conclusion, allow me to reiterate the firm commitment of the Maldives to the principles and purposes enshrined in the United Nations Charter. We will work with the other members of the international community to uphold and promote those lofty objectives. We seek a world, as envisioned 60 years ago in the United Nations Charter, of all peoples living in larger freedom, free from want, free from fear and with the dignity that God almighty bestowed on all of us.The outcome document adopted at the High-level Plenary Meeting (resolution 60/1) serves as a map by which we navigate in seeking to improve the lives of the many peoples of the world; it may be imperfect, but it is our task as leaders to provide a vision of a better world and to lead our peoples towards the achievement of that vision. The outcome document spells out this vision, and we should use it much as one uses a map when navigating the destiny of our respective nations. In this respect, Nauru looks to the United Nations as the global leader in reaching this vision of a better world: a world in which human rights are collectively recognized and defended, terrorism in any form is eliminated, peace and security is promoted and maintained, and poverty is eradicated. We therefore applaud the effort to strengthen the work of the United Nations through management reform. This should improve the delivery of the global services that this Organization is expected to provide. Equally important is the need to reform the Security Council, to recognize that international developments since the establishment of that body many decades ago now demand a more democratic representation of the global family in an expanded Security Council. The earlier these reforms are implemented, the earlier the work of the United  4 05-51226 Nations can be further improved, with commensurate benefit to the people whose interests we all serve. Nauru is in the unenviable position of having lost its earlier status as a donor country, with much of its wealth lost through mismanagement and, in particular, corrupt leadership. We therefore speak with some experience when we note with encouragement the decision by the United Nations to implement management and structural reforms to improve, amongst other things, transparency and accountability for the greater good of Member countries and the peoples we represent. Nauru itself is undertaking significant economic and political reforms as it recommences the nation- building process. These include the design of a national development strategy, the public consultative phase of which has just been concluded; it will be presented to the donor community in November this year. We hope that the international community can participate, not by driving the development agenda for the people of Nauru, but by accepting the vision of our people as that to be implemented by Nauru with the support of its development partners. The development agenda for developing countries, particularly those with fragile and vulnerable economies, must be designed by those on whose lives that agenda will have an impact and not by external parties that have a different agenda. We believe that the thorough consultative process within which the national development strategy is being designed is in itself an exercise in democracy. The views expressed by government and non- government agencies and by community, faith and other leaders, is testament to the strength of democracy in Nauru. To turn a blind eye to this process by driving a development agenda not envisioned by the people is not only dangerous to the development needs of the people it should serve, but a threat to democracy itself. We hope that the United Nations itself will have a leading role in assisting the rebuilding of Nauru and in achieving the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. We reiterate our call for a United Nations presence in Nauru for this purpose. Nauru also calls upon the developed world to match its rhetoric with action when it comes to meeting the development needs of the developing world, through development financing and/or debt relief. It is simply not good enough to be targeting the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals by 2015 without making available the resources to fund that effort. The developed world has an obligation to share its resources with the developing world by ensuring it meets its own target of official development assistance expenditure of 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product, and to achieve it promptly, if the developing world is to achieve the Millennium Development Goals within 10 years. The decision not to consider the question of the people of Taiwan is a gross dereliction of duty by this Assembly. There are 23 million people on Taiwan who are being denied the right to be recognized and protected by this Organization. The United Nations has a role in assisting and facilitating constructive dialogue to ensure a future of peace for the people of Taiwan and the rest of that region. Peace and security in the Taiwan Strait is peace and security in the Asia-Pacific region. I am very hopeful that Member States will recognize and accept the appeal by the good people of Taiwan at the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. God bless the Republic of Nauru and God bless the United Nations and the peoples of the world. We shall proceed with God’s will first. We live in an age of unpredictable threats, against which there may be no airtight security measures. Tragedy could strike in the form of a deadly epidemic. It could be the handiwork of terrorists, like the attacks against New York City on 11 September 2001 or the Bali bombings of 2002. It could be a convulsion of nature, like the tsunami that demolished the Indonesian province of Aceh and nearby Indian Ocean Rim areas, or the storm tide that drowned New Orleans and much of Louisiana recently. On the tragedy of New Orleans, we extend our deepest condolences to the American people. We Indonesians know too well the enormous suffering that a natural catastrophe can bring. In Aceh alone, the tsunami of 26 December 2004 killed outright some 130,000 individuals. It destroyed 220,000 homes and displaced 572,000 individuals. Some 100,000 persons are still missing and presumed dead. The death toll would have been higher were it not for the quick and vigorous response of the international community and the United Nations. For that, the Indonesian people 29 are deeply grateful. The outpouring of sympathy and solidarity, as well as humanitarian assistance from all over the world, deeply touched us. Eleven days after the tragedy, we hosted in Jakarta a special summit of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) on the aftermath of the earthquake and tsunami. At that summit, world leaders and the United Nations Secretary-General, as well as representatives of multilateral institutions, worked out a system of coordination and division of labour in attending to the stricken countries. Pledges were made of urgently needed assistance. A decision was reached to develop a multi-nodal early warning system covering the Indian Ocean Rim countries. Within ASEAN, an agreement to establish stand-by arrangements to mitigate natural disasters was concluded last July. Those efforts were reflected in General Assembly resolution 59/233, initiated by ASEAN and sponsored by more than 130 United Nations Members. The reconstruction and rehabilitation of Aceh got off to an early start as the emergency relief phase was completed ahead of schedule. A master plan for reconstruction and rehabilitation was then devised. An agency for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of Aceh was established and given broad powers. Through the World Bank’s Multi-Donor Trust Fund and bilateral mechanisms with donors, we have instituted a strict system that guarantees transparency and accountability in the disbursement of funds. Rehabilitation and development, however, cannot run smoothly without peace. And for many years there has been no peace. Before the tsunami, Aceh saw three decades of armed conflict caused by perceived economic injustices. Many Acehnese felt that they were not being given a fair deal by the central Government. As the conflict raged and took a heavy toll on human life, a vicious cycle was at work: violence impoverished the people, and in their poverty many resorted to violence. In the spirit of reform and in a democratic environment, efforts to address the problem of Aceh through dialogue and reconciliation were initiated in 2000. Those efforts led to the signing of a final agreement in Helsinki last month. That was the silver lining in the cloud of 26 December; it opened the eyes of both sides to the hopelessness of the situation without peace. It helps that there is international support for the peace process. At our invitation, the European Union and ASEAN contributing countries have provided monitors for the implementation of the peace agreement. In a way, it has created a precedent for the collaboration of two regional organizations in peacebuilding. The decommissioning and destruction of rebel weapons are working according to the peace agreement. The former rebels are back in the fold of the unitary Republic of Indonesia and are fighting on the same side as the Government in the struggle against poverty. Peace and development in Aceh are the fruits of reform and democratization, which are pervading all of Indonesia. Starting this year, all local officials, governors, regents and mayors are directly elected by the people. Whereas the former rebel leaders once sought power through the bullet, they can now seek their legitimate aspirations through the ballot. Since 1998, we have enhanced our political institutions through constitutional amendments. We have overhauled our legal system, and we are adopting high standards of good governance in the corporate and public sector. We have pursued vigorous campaigns against corruption. We are now pursuing an economic strategy that is pro-growth, pro-poor and pro-job. We are strengthening the export sector, promoting investments to create jobs and speeding up rural economic development. In a few weeks, we will put in place a social safety net that will cushion the impact of high oil prices on the poor. We are on target with our Millennium Development Goals on poverty reduction. Wherever there is social unrest in Indonesia, we bring justice and foster dialogue and reconciliation, as we did in Aceh. In the same spirit of reconciliation, Indonesia and neighbouring Timor-Leste have reached out to each other so that both nations might together close a painful chapter in our shared history. Together, we have established a commission of truth and friendship, tasked to bring about exposure of the truth and acknowledgement of responsibility for the human rights violations committed prior to and immediately after the popular consultations held in Timor-Leste in 1999. The commission started its work last August. 30 The fledgling democracies of the two countries stand a better of chance of succeeding if they work together in a spirit of reconciliation, friendship and cooperation, complementing the prosecutorial justice that has been carried out in Indonesia and Timor-Leste. With our other closest neighbours in South-East Asia, we are striving hard to become an ASEAN community that is at peace with itself and all others — a prosperous ASEAN living in harmony within the community of caring societies that we have long envisioned. We hope to see ASEAN play a pivotal role in the evolution of a new equilibrium in the Asia- Pacific region that will consolidate the peaceful engagement of regional Powers with one another. Today, ASEAN already serves as the driving force towards the development of an East Asian economic community. We Indonesians love to build bridges. Last April, we served as host to the representatives of 106 Asian and African countries, many of them heads of State or Government, for the Asian-African Summit of 2005. During that historic Summit, we put in place the cornerstone for a bridge of cooperation across the Indian Ocean — the New Asian-African Strategic Partnership — on behalf of the 4.6 billion people of the two continents. Through the Partnership, both continents will intensify their political solidarity, economic cooperation and socio-cultural relations, including technical cooperation and human resources development. The establishment of the Partnership was the most meaningful way in which we could observe the Golden Jubilee of the 1955 Asian-African Conference held in Bandung, which heralded the emergence of many new sovereign nations from the shadow of colonialism. In those formative years of ours, we sought to reform international relations through the United Nations. Today, we feel called upon to seek reform of the United Nations itself, for we are faced with the formidable challenges of development, security and human rights — three challenges that are interlinked and interdependent and that cannot be addressed separately. We therefore need a United Nations that is more effective and efficient and more democratic and accountable to its Members — an Organization with a balanced focus on those three challenges. We need a reformed Security Council that is more democratically representative. As the Asia-Pacific region is home to more than half of the human race and is the cradle of ancient civilizations and religions, we in Indonesia feel that it should have more seats on the Council. Moreover, we must do away with the right of the veto. We cannot afford to exclude global disarmament and non-proliferation from our agenda. We are not rid of the danger of nuclear annihilation. At the same time, developing countries must be allowed to engage in the peaceful use of nuclear energy to hasten their development. We need a Peacebuilding Commission to help countries in conflict make the transition from war to durable peace. The Commission must work in coordination with the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council, under the mandate of the General Assembly. With regard to the fight against terrorism, we hope that a comprehensive convention can be concluded soon. International cooperation to address this problem should include efforts to deal with its root causes. We also hold that no human right may be sacrificed and that no international law may be violated in the fight against terrorism. We in Indonesia believe that interfaith dialogue and cooperation to empower moderate voices can significantly reduce violent radicalism. That is why we have sponsored and hosted Asia-Pacific and Asian- European dialogues on interfaith cooperation. We urge that the Economic and Social Council be empowered to effectively review and coordinate international cooperation for development. The envisaged Human Rights Council must uphold human rights as universal, indivisible and interdependent. It should be free from politicization and double standards; instead, it should promote dialogue as well as concrete cooperation. It should be a subsidiary body to the General Assembly. Finally, no effort aimed at United Nations reform can be complete unless it affirms and makes a reality the central role of the General Assembly as the main deliberative body of the United Nations. It may not be realistic to hope that these reforms will be realized this week or in the months to come. We 31 the Members of the United Nations are not sufficiently in concert to achieve an early breakthrough. But we who desire reform must keep faith and persevere. For three decades, armed conflict smouldered in Aceh, until it became clear to both sides that the only way out of a tragic situation was the way of peace. For more than three decades, Indonesian reformists struggled against the crushing weight of an authoritarian regime, until it became clear that our only way out of the Asian crisis was through democratic reform. We do not know when the moment of truth will come for the United Nations. We hope that it will come, not in the wake of a crisis, but at the dawning of a more enlightened time. Above all, we must never lose hope in the Organization’s capacity for reform, its perfectibility. We must keep on working — even harder than before. Then, when the moment of truth comes, we will be ready to seize the opportunity.At the end of the first five years of the third millennium, this Organization must go through a phase of maturity after sixty years of life, enough time to have formed a collective understanding of the major problems still facing mankind and to find the most effective ways to address them. Recent facts show that this is the reality that we shall have to deal with for some time in the future. There are many challenges facing the United Nations, both internal and global problems. By way of illustration, I should like to refer to two of those challenges: one internal, namely, the much-needed democratization of this Organization and the other external, the problem of poverty, which is the most important, growing and alarming problem of 36 contemporary society. I should like to invite all delegations to give these two problems careful thought. Democracy, at the current stage of human development, is the highest form of political organization. Democracy, owing to its very nature and as a vital condition, implies the equal exercise of rights as the ideal way to reach the best possible living conditions. What is valid for one country taken individually applies even more to organizations in which many sovereign nations are represented, all with equal rights. The United Nations is the most emblematic case in the modern society of nations. As a result, it should be the true embodiment and example of the equal exercise of democratic rights. If we agree on this basic principle, one question immediately comes to mind: is this Organization a democratic institution? Are its practices useful, as we have seen in very recent decisions adopted by a small number of Members in a document presented in the first meeting? Is this a useful example of a transparent democratic exercise on the part of the sovereign nations represented here? The answer, regrettably, is a resounding “no”. On the contrary, what we have seen is a dangerous process in which oligarchies are being built, where a small group of countries usurp the right to take decisions without taking into account the vast majority of countries that ultimately represent the overwhelming majority of the global population. This is what usually happens with matters affecting the fate of billions of human beings. For those reasons, when we talk about reform, the first thing to do is to define the nature of this reform, which can have no other goal than the democratization of this Organization. That means giving decision- making power in fundamental matters to the General Assembly and ending once and for all the Organization’s oligarchic and, very often, autocratic practices, which diminish its authority in the eyes of the world. In our humble but firm opinion, this is the major challenge the Organization faces internally. Its very existence depends on the successful resolution of this issue. We have no doubt about that, and let us not doubt it. In the external sphere, the most important challenge lies in the agonizing escalation that daily traps millions of human beings living in poverty. Poverty — as we have heard here in many statements — is the result of an unjust system of distribution of the earthly goods of men that therefore denies men any spiritual value. It is an unfair system of distribution that stems from a distorted matrix whose dominant force is a ruthless thirst for profit and in which growing wealth is based on the expansion and deepening of poverty. This is the reality that we see day after day, not only, to the surprise of many, in the so-called poor countries, but also in countries where opulence is obscenely on display, every second, through the mass media, attracting millions of people who are trying to improve their living conditions, only to crash into a wall raised by those who preach market freedom and the free movement of capital but who do not tolerate the movement of human beings except when they are needed as a labour force to further expand their wealth. This is the painful truth that the tragedy of Katrina has revealed. It is a painful reality that has profoundly shaken all of those for whom nothing about human beings is strange, wherever it may occur. These problems should have become the focal points of the entire document that was approved in a strange “consensus” — a word I do not hesitate to place between quotation marks. Little attention has been paid to this drama. But the drama is there; it is boiling across the world. That generates instability, because if there is one thing that human society is not made for, it is suicide. It seeks desperate forms of survival, and that is why, as the great Peruvian Cesar Vallejo said once, it lights its captive torch and prays angrily. These are days of suffering but also days of anger in many parts of the world, and that generates instability. If we want stability in the world, let us apply social justice, a new system of distribution among regions and a new system of solidarity for distribution within nations that cannot be limited to charity or assistance often delivered under humiliating conditions. There are many ideas that bring us to this meeting, I am sure. On some of the most important problems we have already defined our position in previous statements. We will continue doing so in this session. For the time being, we would simply add a basic item: how difficult it is to realize man’s democratic dream when man finds himself prevented from satisfying his most basic conditions for a life of 37 dignity: health, nutrition, a roof over his head and the opportunity to enjoy basic rights. We trust in the wisdom of the peoples and the new leadership that through its voice speaks for silent millions. We trust in the struggle of those who, as the great Martí said, have thrown in their lot with the poor of the earth. Thus some day, in the not-so-distant future, we will find ourselves in a better world, with a life worth living and a United Nations strengthened by the essential values of men and women of dignity, who are the majority on this planet.Allow me first, Sir, to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I should like to avail myself of this opportunity to express from the very bottom of the Peruvian heart our sincere feeling of solidarity with the women and men of the United States who have suffered as a result of the natural disasters in Mississippi, Alabama and other southern states. Their suffering is shared by us, just as we would share suffering anywhere in the world. I am sure that the faith and hope of the people of the United States will enable them to overcome this tragedy. A year ago in this forum (see A/59/PV.5) I spoke of the need to face, with vision and realism, the new challenges now facing us, the developing countries in particular. On the one hand, our countries are becoming part of the globalization of production, trade, financial flows, the digital telecommunications revolution, and the spread of values such as democracy and human rights. At the same time, however, the world is fragmented by an increase in social inequities, the proliferation of civil wars, the collapse of States, genocide, terrorism, transnational crime and environmental degradation. These contradictory trends of globalization on the one hand and fragmentation on the other, call into question the governance within States and within the international system, and ultimately call into question international collective security itself. Peace and security and the stability of the global system are not related only to political, military and strategic issues. Peace and security also have social and economic components. Poverty and exclusion conspire against peace, security and democracy. Social exclusion triggers violence and instability, renders democracy fragile and leads to national and international fragmentation. That is why we must agree on action to confront these contradictions. That is the main commitment that we as States undertook at the recent High-level Plenary Meeting on the Millennium Goals, and that is what the United Nations and the multilateral system as a whole must tackle next. That is why I am highlighting the two main axes along which these commitments must develop. I refer to security on the one hand and development on the other. While each country is responsible for its own development, it must be recognized that development encounters obstacles at the international level that call for new partnerships and new forms of association. These must go beyond the assistance-based paradigm characterizing much so-called development assistance. And, more important, they must overcome the asymmetry that currently prevails in relations between developed and developing countries. On the one hand, developing countries are being asked to commit to open their markets, to foreign investment regimes and to reforming their public administrations. We agree with all of that. But there is no matching solid commitment that developed countries will, as promised, allocate 0.7 per cent of their gross national product (GNP) for cooperation. Nor — even less — do we see obstacles to foreign trade being dismantled. The new partnership for development has to overcome adverse factors for developing countries and eliminate obstacles such as rigid intellectual property standards, the speculative volatility of global capital, the lack of foreign investment, subsidies, the debt burden, and, above all, the absence of genuine special and differential treatment in trade negotiations for developing countries. This is not only about receiving assistance to reduce poverty; it is also about a new association for development that will make it possible to generate employment and create wealth. Implementing this new partnership would fulfil Millennium Development Goal 8 and the commitments made in the Monterrey Consensus. That is why it is necessary for the Doha round to be completed next year. That is tremendously important. As the Millennium Declaration recognizes, a very important cross-cutting element in the partnership for development is assuring the sustainability of the environment. As proof of our commitment, I was proud  8 05-51226 some days ago to deposit the instruments of ratification of the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants and the Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure for Certain Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade, both of which are intended to reduce the negative impact of pollution. As it carries out its development agenda, the international system must strengthen collective security to confront threats such as terrorism, nuclear proliferation, and organized transnational crime. This year again, we have been shaken by acts of terrorism perpetuated all over the world. Peru suffered from, and combated, terror for many long years, and expresses its solidarity with the victims of these criminal acts. We reiterate our firm condemnation of all acts of terrorism and restate our commitment, through mutual cooperation, to prevent, combat, punish and eradicate terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. Peru appeals to the Assembly not to continue to delay the adoption of a comprehensive counter-terrorism convention. For my Government, international peace and security is a prime objective, and we have adopted the following measures in that context. First, Peru is promoting the limitation of defence spending at the regional level in order to release resources for social investment. The first decision I adopted on my Government’s first day in office was to cut back military expenditure in my country by 23 per cent in order to allocate it to food, health, education and social investments. Progress in this field has been significant; there are agreements with Chile, Colombia and Ecuador to craft and implement standardized methodologies to reduce our military spending. Secondly, Peru was an advocate of the creation of the South American Zone of Peace and Cooperation and the Andean Zone of Peace, which have been recognized in Assembly resolutions 57/13 and 59/54, respectively. Thirdly, Peru participated actively in formulating the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. Fourthly, Peru is participating in peacekeeping operations by providing troops, staff officers, military observers and equipment. To increase our contribution in this area, Peru has signed a memorandum of understanding under the United Nations Stand-by Arrangements System, which includes army, air force and navy units. Currently, Peruvian Blue Helmets are participating in peacekeeping operations in Eritrea- Ethiopia, Liberia, Côte d’Ivoire, Burundi, the Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as well as in Cyprus and Haiti. We cherish peace. For all these reasons, Peru is a candidate for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the term 2006-2007 in the elections to be held during this session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. I should like here to express Peru’s deep gratitude for the majority support for our candidacy; we now enjoy the widest possible support from Latin American and Caribbean countries as well as from our brother countries in Africa and Asia, the Arab League States and countries of Europe and of Oceania. This generous support encourages us and strengthens our commitment to work with dedication and responsibility in the Security Council. We are grateful for this opportunity and the support offered by countries worldwide for our candidature for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for 2006-2007. Australia is a founding Member of the United Nations, and we have long supported this Organization’s important role in world affairs. The United Nations has many achievements to celebrate in its sixtieth year. Equally, the sixtieth anniversary places the shortcomings and indeed the failings of the United Nations under a microscope for all to see. In approaching this occasion, the United Nations and its Members have been presented with a challenge: to find practical and workable ways to bring greater security and prosperity to the people of the world through a reformed United Nations system. This has not been easy. The reform agenda is simultaneously vast and urgent, with agreement on approaches difficult — at times impossible — to achieve, as the recent summit process made clear. Australia welcomes the summit’s progress in some important areas, particularly the agreement to establish a Peacebuilding Commission to assist fragile States, a field of endeavour where Australia has long been active in its own region, as I have outlined in previous addresses to the General Assembly. We also welcome the fact that States have agreed for the first time that the international community, through the United Nations, has the responsibility to act to protect populations from gross and systematic violations of human rights. We also welcome the call for early conclusion of a comprehensive terrorism convention and early entry into force of the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. We are pleased that, on development, the Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1) recognizes what already underpins Australia’s approach to development assistance: that good governance, sound economic policies, anti-corruption measures and trade liberalization are critical elements in fighting poverty and promoting economies and stable communities. Australia has a proud record of assistance in these areas, further underscored by our announcement last week of an increase in Australia’s overseas aid allocation to about 4 billion Australian dollars by 2010 — a doubling of aid from 2004 levels — as well as generous contributions of 10 million Australian dollars to the Democracy Fund and 3 million to the Peacebuilding Fund over three years. As a nation that strongly supports an ambitious outcome of the Doha round of multilateral trade negotiations and recognizes the crucial importance of this to developing countries, Australia also welcomes the pledge and challenge put forward by President Bush a week ago (see A/60/PV.2): that the United States is ready to eliminate all tariffs, subsidies and other barriers if other nations do the same. But alongside these welcome outcomes, many questions and, in some cases, vast disappointments remain. On arms control and non-proliferation, we have absolutely nothing to show — an extraordinarily poor outcome given a contemporary global security environment in which proliferation threats are so clearly evident. The outdated ideology that too many delegations brought to negotiations was a damningly deep reflection on the intergovernmental process at the United Nations. We did not grasp the opportunity provided by the largest-ever gathering of world leaders to produce a political declaration defining acts of terrorism. How can some nations continue to assert that the deliberate maiming and targeting of civilians is sometimes justified? How is it — after atrocities in Sharm el-Sheikh, Istanbul, Jakarta, Riyadh and on a daily basis in Iraq — that some continue to employ double standards, deceiving themselves into believing that such terrorists could ever be considered to be “freedom fighters”? This is not an argument about the merits of a particular cause. It is about the moral imperative to outlaw behaviour that offends civilization. We were disappointed that the summit missed the opportunity to make progress on Security Council reform to ensure that the Council’s membership and 5 functioning match the priorities and the realities of this century. While the summit resolved to create a Human Rights Council, the outcome document is disappointingly short on detail. A new Human Rights Council must overcome the credibility deficit that plagues current human rights machinery and that sees some of the most egregious human rights abusers elevated to positions of leadership. Australia will participate constructively in negotiations on the shape of this new Council. We will also more than double — to $650,000 — our contribution to the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. Finally, the management reforms agreed at the summit are a step in the right direction, but they are just that — one step. The Secretary-General needs more authority and flexibility to manage the United Nations. And — as recent inquiries have highlighted in sobering detail — the United Nations accountability, audit and oversight systems must be massively strengthened. It will not be easy, but we must address anew our failures. The summit heralded an historic shift in our thinking on humanitarian intervention, showing a willingness to embrace a new mindset, one which addresses our responsibility to watch out for each other in times of need — our collective “responsibility to protect”. Too often the world has stood by watching humanitarian disasters unfold before international machinery has creaked into action. In Somalia, Bosnia, Rwanda and Kosovo, action taken was too little, too late. Today, the situation in Darfur epitomizes those shortcomings. As the Summit Outcome makes clear, all States have a responsibility to protect their own population from egregious crimes such as genocide and crimes against humanity. Where a population is suffering serious harm, and the relevant State is unwilling or unable to stop this, the principle of non-intervention should yield to the collective responsibility to protect. The Security Council must now rely on this new consensus to respond more effectively to humanitarian crises. We have a responsibility to react faster to situations of compelling human need, and we must do more to help countries rebuild, recover and reconcile after conflicts or disasters. In the last year we have seen the people of Afghanistan and Iraq exercise restored democratic rights. The international community must continue support for their transformations, help them to leave behind the experience of brutal dictators and narrow regimes, and ensure that progress and democracy take root. Ceding any ground in Iraq or Afghanistan to the tyranny of terrorism and the violent suffering it brings would be a backward step in our global campaign, a campaign we continue to fight but have not yet won, as the July terrorist attacks in London and the ongoing terrorist menace in South-East Asia and elsewhere make clear. There remains an urgent need for nations to come together to confront terrorists in the battle of ideas, contest extremist ideologies, and build greater and more productive dialogue between faiths and civilizations. Australia is doing its utmost in our region to tackle terrorism and the ideology that feeds it. United Nations machinery must also play a part. Many Member States still need assistance to implement United Nations counter-terrorism standards and build their counter-terrorism capabilities — the kind of outcomes Australia is already pursuing in cooperation with its regional partners. Leaders made some progress in this direction last week but did not adopt the Secretary-General’s counter-terrorism strategy. Australia welcomed the General Assembly’s adoption of the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism in April this year. Our Prime Minister, John Howard, signed that Convention for Australia at the summit. It is now imperative that we redouble our efforts to conclude a comprehensive convention against terrorism during this session of the General Assembly. Closing the gaps in the counter-terrorism legal framework is an essential complement to our concerted efforts to prevent future attacks and to prosecute those who commit terrorist acts. Effective international efforts to criminalize such acts are a vital step forward. The world today is confronted by a menace not envisaged at the time the Geneva Conventions were drafted — terrorist organizations and their foot soldiers, like those captured in Afghanistan, who bear arms on a battlefield but pay no heed to the laws of 6 war, fight for no regular army, wear no uniform and bear no recognizable insignia. Just as international law evolved to deal with a scourge of another age — piracy — so today a comprehensive convention against terrorism is needed to help deal with these perpetrators of terrorist acts. The summit was a lost opportunity on disarmament and non-proliferation. Multilateral non- proliferation regimes are being tested now by a small minority of Governments that flout the norms and standards observed by the rest of the international community and which in doing so imperil the security of us all. A dangerous new dimension to this global challenge is the known ambition of terrorists to acquire weapons of mass destruction. It is therefore imperative that we take practical action against proliferation as it occurs, through innovative measures such as the Proliferation Security Initiative that complement and reinforce multilateral regimes. Earlier this year I saw firsthand the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons be thwarted by a few countries determined to prevent consensus. Australia — together with the overwhelming majority of States — remains unwavering in its support for the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and we will continue to take a leading role in universalizing the Additional Protocol on strengthening nuclear safeguards, making it a precondition for the supply of uranium to non- nuclear-weapon States. It is not acceptable, in the current global climate, that we have not started negotiations on a fissile material cut-off treaty, a treaty which would reduce the risk of leakage of fissile material to proliferators or terrorists and would buttress nuclear disarmament gains made to date. I am pleased to be chairing the Comprehensive Test-Ban Treaty Article XIV Conference this afternoon, looking for ways to accelerate that Treaty’s entry into force. A firmer and more active Security Council role on the issue of weapons of mass destruction is also sorely needed. Australia is a committed and long-term supporter of the United Nations and of the vital role that it can play in promoting international peace and security. We have a proud record of contributing to United Nations activities, funding and debates, extending back to its formation in 1945. But we are not an uncritical supporter. The need to reform the United Nations has been a consistent theme since I first addressed the General Assembly at its fifty-first session in 1996. Such a need is all the more compelling today. The reality is that there continue to be States failing or in precipitous decline for no reasons other than poor leadership and poor governance — with disastrous results for human lives. What does it say when the international community proves to be unwilling to act when misrule has caused life expectancy to plunge in what was one of Africa’s most promising countries — from around 63 years in the early 1990s, to just under 34 years in 2004? Would today’s United Nations be able to prevent another Rwanda? We and the publics of the world expect much of the United Nations, and rightly so. The stakes are too high in this complex and challenging security environment to accept anything less. We all have a part to play. There was some welcome progress at the summit; but where we have fallen short we must acknowledge it and be ambitious in pursuing more meaningful reform. Large challenges loom before us. We should approach them with a degree of realism. Australia does not believe that the United Nations is the answer to all the problems of the world. But the Organization does have a role to play. When we call on the United Nations, it must be able to fulfil that role effectively and expeditiously. The publics of the world expect nothing less.We congratulate you, Sir, on your election and wish you every possible success in the ongoing reform process. The celebration of the sixtieth anniversary is an ideal moment to reiterate my country’s commitment to the goals and principles of the United Nations. We express our support for the task of reforming the Organization. Colombia’s adherence to multilateralism is based on its active participation throughout the United Nations process, from the signing of the Charter in San Francisco on the June 26 1945 to today, with many of its agencies present in my country supporting our national policies to solve the problems we face. It is a source of pride that many Colombians have left their mark on the Organization. It is worth mentioning, among others, former President Alberto Lleras Camargo, one of the first and most fierce and efficient defenders of the principle of legal equality between States. He was also a champion of common defence, which compels democratic States to come to one another’s defence should one of them be the victim of aggression. Colombia had the privilege of presiding, through Eduardo Zuleta, over the opening of the first session of the General Assembly. His vision of the Organization is as valid today as it was 60 years ago, as you, Sir, recently acknowledged in your speech to the Assembly. The diversity and evolution of thought are human gifts. To exercise those faculties, it is necessary for States to guarantee democratic opportunities that allow each individual to contribute to and compete in the quest for the collective good. There can be no room for any form of ideological stasis, which would discourage emulation, fail to recognize intelligence, and paralyse creativity in the search for solutions to people’s problems. Recognizing diversity and the evolution of thought is the source of our vocation for pluralism. It guides the struggle against terrorism that we have carried out with democratic conviction for three long years. Now that dictatorships are expressions of the past and democracy is an indestructible paradigm, it is time to review certain concepts that are becoming obsolete and must be replaced with more useful and contemporary ones. The mindset that characterizes Governments as being of the left or of the right is a simplistic view that produces a polarized political atmosphere. It has triggered irreconcilable emotions and sensitivities that are inconsistent with the actions of our Governments and threaten the unity of our countries. I dare suggest that, in their place, we use five parameters to qualify our democracies. They are security with a democratic scope; the effective protection of public freedoms; transparency as a factor of confidence; social cohesion as a principle of democratic sustainability; and the independence of institutions. With these parameters, we can define a democracy as institutional or only skin-deep; as governed by judicial order or by personal whim; as progressive or backward, inclusive or exclusive. Colombia is working on a concept of democratic security, enshrined in global security. We call it democratic because it differs from the doctrine of national security that was applied in the continent and used to suppress freedoms, punish democracy, stigmatize the opposition and frustrate dissent. Our security is aimed at deepening democracy. We have gone to great lengths to ensure that this process of re- establishing security is recognized as a democratic value by all schools of thought. We are determined that security shall be provided on equal terms, efficiently and transparently, to those closest to the Government, as well as to its most hardened opponents. In Colombia, the security problem has been the product of the weakness of the State in facing criminals. We wish to reconfigure the equation and to finally have a State that is strong enough to guarantee Colombians the effectiveness of their freedoms and protect them from all threats. Given a democracy that is deep-rooted and without ambiguities, no violent action can enjoy a veneer of legitimacy; on the contrary, it must be disqualified and branded as terrorist. We therefore express our solidarity with those who have suffered from the actions of terror. For three consecutive years, the number of homicides, kidnappings and other terrorist crimes has fallen in Colombia. We have not yet won the struggle against terrorism, but we are winning it. That victory 22 will bring peace and progress to our country and, with illicit drugs uprooted from our soil, the world will feel great relief. To that end, we need the participation and support of the international community. The opposition in Colombia has always had safeguards, but today those guarantees are truly effective thanks to democratic security. Colombia has always embraced the cause of human rights, but those are now enjoying more tangible respect thanks to democratic security. While strengthening citizen’s confidence in their institutions, the concept of security that we profess and practice requires those who opt for violence to cease hostilities and prepare to negotiate a lasting peace. The decisive and firm action to thwart those who practice terror, along with a generous policy for those who choose to abandon armed intimidation, have allowed the demobilization and reintegration of 20,000 out of some 50,000 terrorists. The Government’s door remains open to negotiation so long as the agreement on cessation of hostilities remains accepted. We need the world to support our plans for reintegration. I ask members to imagine the magnitude of the challenge. We have 20,000 former combatants — a number that could double in coming years — individuals who have hitherto lived by the gun and are accustomed to killing. What better contribution could there be to peace than the definitive rejection of illegality? To that end, we need the world’s help in providing new opportunities for rehabilitation and social integration. We are implementing a law on justice and peace, which is applicable to all terrorist groups. By comparison with earlier Colombian laws and those of other countries, our law raises the bar in terms of justice and reparations for victims. We have increased fumigation to rid our country of the illicit drugs that finance terrorism, and we are optimistic with regard to manual eradication. By the end of 2005, some 30,000 hectares of illegal crops should be destroyed. We require greater support from the international community in order to provide our peasants with alternative opportunities. Democratic security has allowed investors to regain their confidence, and we have begun to see early signs of declining unemployment. In that way, we will find the resources to face yet another challenge — that of overcoming poverty and building a nation based on total social cohesion. Our social policy is framed by a long-term vision and short-term goals under constant review, in keeping with the Millennium Development Goals, the fulfilment of which we reaffirmed yesterday in this Hall. I wish to cite three of the seven chapters of our social policy. The educational revolution is an axis of social cohesion and the road towards equality, the redistribution of income, and the opening of new channels for social mobility, without which democracy will remain incomplete. Promoting a country of owners emphasizes the financing of medium, small and micro enterprises in order to overcome the barrier of access to credit, a hateful form of discrimination that hinders democracy. Comprehensive social protection, which in three years’ time will provide health insurance to all people living in poverty, has allowed us to register progress in the provision of child nutrition, to ensure access to education and to improve the well-being of the elderly. This year, 500,000 families will be involved in Colombia’s programme — poor families that receive a State subsidy to feed and educate their children. In the near future, that number will rise to 1 million, in addition to the increase budgetary efforts undertaken under the aegis of the educational revolution. In 2006, 10 million children will benefit from our nutrition programmes, and 570,000 elderly citizens will receive stipends to cover their most pressing needs. Our social policy also comprises ongoing efforts to strengthen alternative development programmes in order to allow us definitively to overcome the problem of illicit drugs. Through such programmes, the international community has a unique opportunity to contribute to and implement the principle of shared responsibility. The “forest-keeper families” programme, involving some 33,000 families committed to maintaining their areas free from drugs and to supervising the recovery of the tropical forest, as well as a programme to provide care to the displaced and reintegrated, will cost Colombia some $300 million dollars next year. We stand firm in the fight against terrorism and in our conviction that a sustained and permanent victory depends upon the success of each individual country in 23 the struggle for social cohesion. In projecting our security policy as a mainstay of the State, we believe it to be intrinsically linked to the ongoing improvement of the social conditions of our people. The distinction between authority and social policy is erroneous. Peace stems from authority, but lasting peace will require us to weave a social fabric of equity. Let this be an opportunity to draw attention to the threat of rising oil prices and the lack of energy alternatives for poor countries that are net importers. There are already signs of disturbance that could lead to grave disruptions of institutional stability. Ignoring that problem could raise greater obstacles in our fight against poverty and prevent us from achieving the Millennium Development Goals. Many countries, including brotherly countries in Central America and the Caribbean, require immediate action to help finance the supply of fuel and the development of new fuel sources. I would like to reiterate the gratitude of the Colombian people for the effective presence and solidarity of the United Nations in our country. We hope that the debate on the issue of reform will further strengthen multilateralism. We also hope that the Organization will emerge strengthened from that debate, in order that it may effectively promote institutional democracy governed by progressive and inclusive legal processes in every country comprising the community of nations. Led by the United Nations, contemporary diplomacy must become more austere in its spending and rely more upon the Internet and modern communications than on travel, in order to avoid becoming a heavy and debilitating burden upon countries and to ensure that the resources saved on organizations, expenditures and contractors can truly reach communities in need. I wish to reiterate that the issue of austerity vis-à-vis world diplomacy is absent in our approach to United Nations reform, and we should include it. Every country, as well as the United Nations, as our universal Organization, can contribute to making these hopes a reality and to bringing peace, security and comprehensive development to our peoples, thereby reaching the goals we set for ourselves for the early years of this century. Our warm regards go out to the people of the United States, which has been battered by Hurricane Katrina. We wish to express our resolute solidarity with those who have been its victims. It is our hope that, in a few days, relief and rescue experts from Colombia will be on the ground in affected communities in the United States. We are all committed to one task, namely, meeting the social goals of the millennium.A few days ago, this Hall was the venue of an unprecedented landmark, a historic gathering of a large number of heads of State or Government who converged to review and assess implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, to renew their commitment to the United Nations and the principles of its Charter and to underline their faith 10 and conviction in the valuable contribution of the international Organization which, by promoting the principles of peace, security and prosperity, is building a better world — a world free of the problems and challenges currently afflicting the international community and forming a threat to world peace and security. Those problems and challenges include terrorism, poverty, hunger, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the spread of contagious diseases, environmental degradation and the persistent and flagrant violation of human rights. The international gathering was an acknowledgement that multilateralism is the only viable option for addressing those issues and challenges, whose implications and dangers transcend geographical borders. Therefore, because of their nature, no country can confront them alone. Although Kuwait welcomes the adoption of the outcome document (resolution 60/1) of the High-level Plenary Meeting, we express our disappointment that it did not include the issues of disarmament and non- proliferation. We hope that the international community will reach a consensus regarding the importance of full and non-selective implementation of all disarmament treaties, particularly the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, whose three main pillars are nuclear disarmament, non-proliferation and the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. The international community must redouble its efforts to totally eliminate all weapons of mass destruction. We hope that the commitments and obligations agreed upon will be duly implemented. Kuwait, for its part, will fulfil its obligations and comply with all relevant international conventions, treaties and United Nations resolutions. We hope that the next few years will see significant strides in the efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals by 2015 and that our joint efforts will result in the streamlining of international cooperation and coordination mechanisms. In that context, Kuwait wishes to commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his efforts and initiatives to reform the Secretariat with a view to enhancing its accountability and transparency and improving the performance of United Nations staff in order to meet the demands of the constantly changing international environment. Kuwait is actively participating in the ongoing consultations on the reform of United Nations organs such as the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the Security Council. We hope that a consensus will eventually be reached on Security Council reform that will achieve our common goal: improving the Council's role and effectiveness, so that it can fulfil its Charter mandate, which is the maintenance of international peace and security. Council reform should also ensure broader representation of regional groups, including in particular Arab and Islamic representation, which would make Council resolutions more transparent and effective. The phenomenon of terrorism has become a direct and immediate threat to international peace and security. Its dangers have spread to affect many countries throughout the world. The 11 September 2001 attacks in the United States of America, the events currently unfolding in Iraq and the recent bombings in London and Sharm el-Sheikh have provided indisputable proof that terrorism neither is associated with, nor specifically targets, a particular race, religion or culture. Therefore, the responsibility for combating terrorism is collective and must be shouldered by all Member States without exception. While the State of Kuwait reaffirms its principled position rejecting terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, we wish to emphasize the need to combat terrorism within a framework of international legitimacy that recognizes the legitimate rights of peoples and brings about justice and stability. We also stress the importance of commitment and adherence by Member States to the 12 international conventions on terrorism, as well as to the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, which Kuwait signed last Friday. We believe that that is the ideal way to eliminate this phenomenon, to curb its effects and to tackle its root causes. In that regard, the State of Kuwait reaffirms its support for the proposal put forward by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud of the fraternal Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, to establish an international centre to fight terrorism. We believe that such a centre would put in place an effective mechanism for collecting and exchanging information on this phenomenon. Iraq continues to find itself in a critically difficult situation of instability and insecurity because of the almost daily terrorist attacks mounted by terrorist groups, including the vanquished fleeing remnants loyal to the former Iraqi regime. Those terrorist attacks 11 largely impede the efforts of the Iraqi Government to rebuild in the wake of the devastation left by the former regime as a result of its hostile policies towards its own people and neighbouring countries. The State of Kuwait continues to lend support to our brothers in Iraq with a view to rehabilitating and rebuilding their country. Our approach stems from our belief that stability in Iraq is ultimately in the interest of stability in this vital region of the world and would have positive implications for its security and progress. We are fully confident that the fraternal people of Iraq will eventually overcome this difficult period in their history and that they will persist in building democratic institutions, in adopting the text of their new constitution and in laying the ground for the forthcoming legislative elections. In the same vein, we wish to stress Kuwait's commitment to the unity, sovereignty and political independence of Iraq. The State of Kuwait looks forward to establishing solid fraternal relations with the new Iraq on the basis of mutual respect, good- neighbourliness and adherence to bilateral agreements, to the relevant United Nations resolutions and to the resolutions of international legitimacy, as they constitute the fundamental pillars of the new and future relationship between the two brotherly countries. Furthermore, we welcome the Iraqi Government's determination to try the leaders of the former regime for all the crimes against humanity that they have committed against the people of Iraq. The trials should also cover the crimes committed against the Kuwaiti people, including the invasion of the State of Kuwait and the killing of Kuwaiti prisoners and third-country nationals. Kuwait reaffirms its full support for the struggle of the Palestinian people to attain all their legitimate political rights. Kuwait demands that Israel move forward in fulfilling all its commitments and obligations under the relevant United Nations resolutions, primarily Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 1515 (2003), in accordance with the principle of land for peace and the provisions of the Arab peace initiative, the bilateral accords it signed with the Palestinian Authority within the framework of the peace process, and the road map, with all its provisions and obligations. Israel must also end its policy of oppressing the Palestinian people, dismantle the separation wall and release all Palestinian detainees. The State of Kuwait views the Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip as a first step to be followed by additional measures to be taken by Israel to end the occupation, in compliance with the relevant United Nations resolutions and in preparation for the establishment of an independent Palestinian State on Palestinian national soil, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. Kuwait hopes that the Israeli withdrawal will lead to the resumption of peace efforts in the region to ensure full Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Syrian Arab Golan to the borderline of 4 June 1967 and its withdrawal from the rest of the Arab territory in southern Lebanon. Thereafter, a settlement should be reached through negotiations among all parties concerned to establish a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the region — a peace that would be enhanced by making the Middle East region, including the Gulf region, a zone free of weapons of mass destruction. In view of Kuwait's keen interest in the maintenance of security and stability in the Gulf region and given our close ties with the brotherly United Arab Emirates and with the friendly Islamic Republic of Iran, we support the position of the member States of the Gulf Cooperation Council regarding the three islands of the United Arab Emirates. It is our hope that the two countries will agree on a negotiation mechanism to resolve their dispute over the three islands, in accordance with the principles and norms of international law and good neighbourly relations. It is our sincere hope that the resolutions on the promotion of sustainable development adopted at numerous international meetings and conferences convened by the United Nations and other organizations, as well as those goals in the High-level Plenary Meeting's outcome document, will lay the groundwork for a new partnership between the developed and the developing nations, thus contributing to the stability and the growth of economic relations among those States. We also hope that those resolutions will help create a balanced and fair international trading system in which each party assumes its responsibilities. To create that kind of partnership, the economic structures of the developing countries need to be strengthened and the developed countries should fulfil 12 their pledges to provide financial and technical assistance and alleviate and cancel the debts of the poorest countries. They should also remove trade restrictions and tariffs on products made in poor countries and give those countries access to technology, enabling them to fully participate in the new economic system. All these measures would help put their peoples on the right track to development and prosperity. In that context, the State of Kuwait is proud to have honoured all its international obligations. It will continue to support economic development programmes in developing countries through the Kuwait Fund for Economic Development. For the record, the Fund has so far extended $12 billion in development assistance to more than 100 countries in various regions of the world. Kuwait will also strive to ensure the stability of global oil markets, with a view to maintaining the pace of development and economic growth for all. As we observe the sixtieth anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations, Kuwait remains hopeful, confident and optimistic about the role of the United Nations and its capability to deal with international issues that pose a threat to world peace and security. To that noble end, the international community must rally behind the United Nations and forge ahead at an even faster pace. We look forward to sincere and meaningful cooperation and partnership to tackle the current challenges. Furthermore, we must strive to create a future characterized by the values and ideals of freedom, justice and equality which, together, underpin security and stability across the world.The recently concluded High-level Plenary Meeting has rekindled the hopes and aspirations of humanity for enduring peace, security and development. The outcome document (resolution 60/1) is a testimony to our shared vision, collective wisdom and renewed commitment to global partnership to address the most pressing challenges of the twenty-first century. The commitments to eradicate poverty, to resolutely fight against terrorism and to bring about the timely reform of the United Nations as the pivot of multilateralism, can be achieved and translated into action only by our working together. The outcome document has reaffirmed the world’s topmost priority — combating terrorism — as the most pressing global issue. Terrorism is not just the problem of a few countries; it is a threat to world peace and stability. In today’s interconnected and interlinked world, terrorism does not remained confined within geographical borders. Its reverberations have been felt far and wide. As every act of terrorism defies basic human values, we must deal it with resolutely, firmly and comprehensively, without double standards or selective interpretations. As a country that has been suffering from senseless and brutal terrorism for a decade, Nepal unequivocally condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and supports the early conclusion of a comprehensive convention against international terrorism. 14 His Majesty the King’s commitment to multiparty democracy is unflinching and total. His Majesty is determined to re-energize multiparty democratic institutions by restoring sustainable peace and making democracy meaningful, mature, cultured and refined. To that end, we will be holding municipal elections by April 2006, to be followed by national parliamentary elections within two years. That will be an important step forward in re-energizing our democratic institutions through free and fair elections. I urge the countries and organizations which support democracy to come forward and help us to conduct free and fair elections. His Majesty’s Government is ready to welcome international observers for the elections. Democracy has been sustained not only as a system of governance but also as a way of life in all parts of the world. The beauty of our planet lies in its diversity. We reaffirm the acknowledgement in paragraph 135 of the outcome document that, while democracies share common features, there is no single model of democracy. Sovereign countries and peoples must be allowed to have every right to choose the system of democratic governance that is suitable to their needs and aspirations. His Majesty King Gyanendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev recently stated that the use of force alone is not a solution, and that the solution rather lies in talks. We are convinced that lasting peace can be achieved only through dialogue based on trust and confidence. But any overture must be credible and sincere enough to dispel all doubts and suspicions surrounding it. This is our principled position: to work with all constitutional forces in efforts towards establishing durable peace and stability in our country. His Majesty’s Government has initiated programmes to alleviate the plight of people suffering as a result of conflict. The Government has accorded top priority to implementing programmes for broad- based economic growth, social inclusion, anti- corruption efforts and the speedy delivery of essential services to needy people. Special relief package programmes are being carried in an integrated manner to the areas hit by conflict; these include food, shelter, health, education and the rehabilitation of persons internally displaced due to terrorist violence. International peace and security can be maintained only in an atmosphere of mutual understanding, trust and confidence. Nepal has always stressed that the international community must make genuine efforts for the general and complete disarmament of all weapons of mass destruction, including biological, chemical, nuclear and radiological weapons, in a time-bound manner. However, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and slow progress in global disarmament negotiations have weakened hopes for a safer and more secure world. We firmly believe that regional mechanisms, including the establishment of United Nations regional centres for peace and disarmament in various parts of the world, can make a significant contribution to global disarmament efforts by enhancing confidence-building. Our commitment is reflected in Nepal’s ardent desire to relocate the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific to Kathmandu at the earliest possible date and to continuously pursue the Kathmandu process as a part of the world disarmament campaign. The role of the United Nations in peacekeeping, peacemaking and post-conflict peacebuilding has assumed great significance over the years. Nepal has been continuously participating in United Nations peacekeeping operations since 1958 and has already contributed more than 50,000 peacekeepers to 29 United Nations peacekeeping missions. With its current deployment of around 3,500 peacekeepers in 13 peacekeeping missions, Nepal ranks among the top five countries contributing troops to the United Nations peacekeeping missions. The sacrifice of the lives of 54 Nepali peacekeepers in the service of humanity in difficult conflict zones around the world stands as testimony to their dedication to the cause of world peace. Nepalese Blue Helmets have earned international repute for their dedication, discipline, impartiality and professionalism in the discharge of their duties. This is reflected in the inclusion of a Nepali peacekeeper in the United Nations team that went to Stockholm to receive the Nobel Peace Prize, and in the several excellent honours and awards that have been accorded to them, the most recent being in the Central African State of Burundi. Over the years, our peacekeepers have also been involved in peacebuilding, reconstruction and rehabilitation exercises in various United Nations missions. 15 Nepal welcomes the establishment of a Peacebuilding Commission as an intergovernmental advisory body. This, we believe, will be instrumental to United Nations efforts in effecting sustained recovery and reconstruction and will provide guidance and assistance in laying the foundation for lasting peace in countries emerging from conflict. The Commission’s mission, objectives and goals should be clearly defined; there should be equitable representation from among the troop-contributing countries; and the Commission should be adequately funded. Nepal is unswervingly committed to the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter and its contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security. After almost two decades, Nepal is seeking non-permanent membership of the Security Council for the period 2007-2008; we have an earnest desire to contribute to the Council in its important role in the maintenance of international peace and security. I take this opportunity to renew our appeal to Member States for their invaluable support to Nepal in the elections slated for next year. Nepal is fully committed to the protection and promotion of human rights. We view all human rights as universal, indivisible and interdependent. I wish to reiterate His Majesty’s Government’s commitment to the implementation of human rights instruments and international humanitarian law through the strengthening of national human rights institutions and through full cooperation with United Nations human rights mechanisms. The human rights situation in Nepal needs to be properly understood in the context of the unabated violence perpetrated by the terrorists. The tendency to equate the constitutional duty of the Government to protect the lives and property of ordinary citizens with that of the dreadful acts of the terrorists needs to be corrected. The terrorists have exceeded all norms and values by resorting to the most heinous acts of violence, indiscriminate killings, the maiming and abduction of innocent civilians, kidnapping and the forceful recruitment of children as soldiers and extortion and intimidation of the civilian population. We have been providing asylum to more than 100,000 Bhutanese refugees on humanitarian grounds for a decade and a half. His Majesty’s Government has shown its honesty and sincerity and has walked the extra mile for the solution of the refugee problem through a bilateral process. We strongly believe that sincere implementation of bilateral agreements will lead to a lasting solution of the problem. We believe that a lasting solution to the refugee problem will have a salutary impact on Nepal-Bhutan relations, which emanate from monarchical cultures. Nepal’s peace and stability have a great bearing not only on its own people but also on its neighbours and on South Asia and beyond. A stable, peaceful and prosperous Nepal, small in size but strategically located, can greatly contribute to maintaining sustainable peace, stability and prosperity in the region and beyond. The world has seen that peace and stability in the world community cannot be guaranteed without the peace, stability and prosperity of smaller and vulnerable States. Therefore, the international community must come forward to help countries with special needs, such as least developed and landlocked developing countries, to help them achieve peace, stability and prosperity. The new international financial and development architecture should, therefore, address the legitimate interests and aspirations of those countries. We call upon the developed countries to augment the level of official development assistance (ODA) and to provide better market access, increased foreign direct investment and substantial debt relief measures to alleviate the hardships of developing countries, especially the least developed and the landlocked ones. We urge the international community to come forward with technical assistance to meet the special needs of the small, landlocked and fragile States with special challenges emanating from terrorism and natural disasters. Nepal’s location between the two fastest-growing economies — India and China — provides us with tremendous opportunities for economic growth and development. We have proposed Nepal as a transit point between our two neighbours, acting as a bridge between them to realize their full economic potential. Nepal firmly believes that only a strengthened and revitalized United Nations can address the multitude of challenges of the contemporary world. Timely reform and necessary restructuring of the United Nations, preserving and promoting the centrality and sanctity of the principles and purposes enshrined in the Charter, are needed to make the world body more robust and vibrant. Nepal has always looked 16 to the United Nations as a torchbearer for peace, security and the dignity of nations. It is also our firm view that United Nations reform should give more emphasis to strengthening the Organization’s role in promoting international cooperation for the economic and social development of Member States, particularly the developing countries. Nepal has consistently supported the reform of the Security Council, including its method of work, to make it more representative, transparent and accountable, in order to reflect present-day realities. We have also maintained that the General Assembly, as the principal deliberative organ of the United Nations, needs to be further strengthened. The six-decade-long journey of the United Nations has been arduous and at times even tumultuous. It has seen high expectations, deep frustration and the harsh realities of realpolitik but has never floundered or wavered from its noble objectives. This year marks the fiftieth year of Nepal’s membership of the United Nations. Since we joined the United Nations, on 14 December 1955, Nepal has cherished its association with the world body and has played an active role in its activities. The Nepali people are proud of their association with the world body and are celebrating the occasion in a special way befitting its significance. Nepal acknowledges its sincere appreciation of the United Nations and its various specialized agencies for their most valuable contribution to our socio-economic development endeavours. We reaffirm our solemn pledge to the Charter of the United Nations and renew our unwavering commitment to make the Organization more equitable, credible and relevant to face effectively the challenges of the twenty-first century.Let me start by extending to the President my sincere congratulations on his election to the presidency of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. I can assure him that in fulfilling his challenging and responsible duties, he will have the support and full cooperation of the delegation of Hungary. Our tribute and thanks are also due to his predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, who served us with exemplary devotion and honour. Effective multilateralism remains an important objective of the foreign policy of Hungary. Therefore, we are pleased to see the United Nations standing ready to face the emerging threats and challenges by making efforts to adapt its activities to the realities of our contemporary world. The United Nations has served for 60 years as the core institution for collective security. In our global and interdependent world we have to acknowledge that development, peace, security and human rights form an indispensable foundation for the security and well- being of our times. My Government is particularly pleased that issues such as the fight against terrorism, international protection of human rights, the proposed Human Rights Council, the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission, the reform of United Nations management, as well as challenges related to development, have found proper reflection in the recommendations of the summit. International terrorism continues to be a major threat to our societies. The recently experienced horrors of terror are sowing the seeds of instability all over the world. Hungary, along with its partners in the European Union and NATO, strongly condemns all forms of terrorism. Measures taken in the course of combating terrorist forces, however, must always remain in conformity with basic international standards, in particular with human rights and refugee and humanitarian law. We believe that the United Nations needs to accord top priority to the fight against the scourge of terrorism. My country is keen to see the elaboration and adoption by the General Assembly of a comprehensive convention on terrorism, which would, among others things, give the proper legal definition of terrorist acts. Freedom, democracy and human rights should constitute the basic framework of life for every individual. We know from experience that they are not granted automatically; they must be won and enforced through hard and persistent efforts. It is of paramount importance therefore that essential human rights- related activities, such as servicing the treaty implementation machinery or monitoring undertaken by the special procedures, are given their due share in the funding provisions of the United Nations regular budget. Driven by the objective to promote democracy in the world, the Government of the Republic of Hungary has established the Budapest International Center for Democratic Transition. The Center is set to provide assistance for democratic reforms drawing upon the experience of countries that have recently undergone political, economic and social transition. These nations, having had to face and address the challenges of transition in the recent past, can probably best serve as helping hands to countries in need in this regard. It is in the same spirit that Hungary warmly welcomes the establishment of the United Nations Democracy Fund. The Budapest International Center for Democratic Transition will be eager to coordinate its activities with the Fund in the framework of a close cooperative relationship. Hungary finds the resolution to establish a new United Nations mechanism dealing with the rights of persons belonging to national, ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities to be highly encouraging. The appointment of an independent expert on minority 11 issues is an important step in the right direction. The United Nations however still has a long way to go in meeting the full scope of its responsibilities with regard to the international protection of minority rights. Educating young generations about the lessons of the past is an essential tool to combat discrimination and intolerance. For this reason a day of Holocaust remembrance has been introduced into Hungarian school curriculum. It is in that same spirit that Hungary supports the proposal to place Holocaust remembrance on the agenda in the United Nations General Assembly. Hungary recognizes that development is a central goal by itself and is ready to reaffirm its commitment to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable development and global prosperity for all. As a new European Union member, Hungary is ready to gradually increase her official development assistance. The European Union recently made important decisions in support of Africa’s development efforts. We reaffirm our commitment to contribute urgently to meeting the special needs of that continent. We are encouraged to see that after so many years of wars and violence, democratic changes are bearing fruit for the peoples of the Western Balkans. It is more than promising that the political and economic perspectives offered by the European Union and NATO are the main driving forces today for the countries of this region. In order to find lasting solutions to the yet unresolved challenges of the Western Balkans, it is crucial to tackle the basic issues of security and stability in their broader regional dimensions. Regardless of its future status, it is vital that Kosovo be transformed into a viable entity, capable of exercising firm administrative control with a stable law and order situation and a transparent, dependable economy. Given the turbulent history of the Balkans, no long- term solution is conceivable without establishing harmonious inter-ethnic relationships. Well-defined and strictly implemented minority rights are the primary precondition for peace, stability and prosperity both in Kosovo and in the broader Western Balkans. The Middle East conflict has wide-ranging implications on global peace and security, on the prospects of the world economy and, last but not least, on the fight against international terrorism. Hungary is of the firm view that the road map, based on the two- States principle, still gives us the best chance for reaching a just and lasting solution. The implementation of the Gaza disengagement plan by the Government of Israel has been a step of truly historic proportions. Thus, the Middle East peace process has been given a new lease on life, but its sustainability is subject to further consistent, bold measures by both sides. In order to maintain the momentum, Israel needs to return to the road map, while the Palestinian National Authority has to demonstrate its own commitment to the peace process by carrying out the long overdue internal reforms and, most importantly, by eradicating terrorism and taking the law and order situation under effective control. The continued instability in Iraq is a matter of grave concern. Hungary strongly condemns the acts of violence and terrorism in Iraq, which aim to undermine the process of reconstruction and political normalization. In spite of the alarming security situation and the obvious internal instability, the political transition in Iraq is making progress in line with Security Council resolution 1546 (2004). The approval of the recently drafted constitution is indispensable to carry on the political process. Further consistent efforts are required to properly engage all Iraqi communities in building a united, stable and democratic country. Let me reiterate Hungary’s continued commitment to provide assistance to the people of Iraq in their efforts to build a democratic and prosperous country that will soon take its due place in the family of democratic nations. Hungary viewed the successful presidential elections last October as an important milestone on the way to political stabilization in Afghanistan. The parliamentary elections held only days ago marked a further major step leading to the establishment of proper democratic institutions in that country. Hungary is proud of the humanitarian assistance it has provided to the people of Afghanistan, as well as of the contribution it has made to facilitate the process of political stabilization. My country is ready to undertake further commitments in order to assist the Afghan people in rebuilding their country in peace and security. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction along with their means of delivery continues to undermine international peace and security. The threat 12 that terrorist groups and non-State actors will acquire nuclear, biological and chemical weapons is a major concern to us all. At the last session of the General Assembly, Hungary expressed its strong support for the full implementation of Security Council resolution 1540 (2004), and called on all States to establish effective national export controls. We have noted with satisfaction that a great number of Member States had submitted comprehensive reports on their national measures serving the aim and purpose of the resolution. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) is still a cornerstone of international peace, security and stability. The 2005 NPT Review Conference, however, failed to live up to our expectations. The international community needs to fulfil its responsibility in preserving the integrity of the Treaty while promoting its universal character. Recognizing the grave threat posed by biological weapons, Hungary will work together with other nations in the run-up to the upcoming Biological and Toxic Weapons Review Conference. Hungary will strive to explore opportunities to strengthen the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention. My country remains committed to the Ottawa Convention banning landmines. We will have destroyed all equipment under the provisions of the Convention by the end of 2005, well in advance of the deadline. At the current session, beyond the wide range of issues to be tackled, we have to make important decisions to put on track the implementation of the outcome document adopted by the High-level Plenary Meeting of the General Assembly. If we are guided by a sense of common responsibility and firmly anchored realism, the momentum for reform will be maintained. The delegation of Hungary stands ready to work in partnership with other delegations to make this happen.It is an honour for me to extend to His Excellency Mr. Jan Eliasson my sincere congratulations on his election to the presidency of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. Let me also pay tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, for his extraordinary dedication and leadership during the fifty-ninth session. I also wish to express my Governmentís sincere appreciation to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, for his tireless efforts aimed at strengthening multilateralism and upholding the purposes and principles of the United Nations. Five years ago, at the Millennium Summit, world leaders reaffirmed their faith in the United Nations and its Charter as indispensable foundations of a more peaceful, prosperous and just world. While there has been progress in some areas, much remains to be done to bring about the full realization of the ambitious Goals set forth in the Millennium Declaration. The promise of a global partnership to realize the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) remains unfulfilled for the vast majority of the peoples of Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean, where a total of more than one billion people still live below the poverty line. For the Caribbean region in particular challenges remain in the area of trade, where the erosion of tariff preferences for primary commodities such as bananas and sugar have been extremely prejudicial to the socio-economic development of many countries of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). The Caribbean region has also been affected by the HIV/AIDS pandemic, which has killed over 20 million men, women and children worldwide. The implicit threat to economic and social stability, human development and security cannot be underestimated or denied. The target of devoting 0.7 per cent of gross national income to official development assistance (ODA) also remains an elusive goal, although there have been encouraging signs recently, such as the commitment made by the Group of Eight (G-8) at the Gleneagles summit and the commitments of other developed countries to meet that target by the year 2015. Those commitments were reiterated in the 2005 outcome document (resolution 60/1) of the High-level Plenary Meeting. At the same time, we have been increasingly confronted by humanitarian emergencies caused by devastating natural disasters, with the resultant internal displacement of people. Once again, we wish to express our sympathy to the Government and the people of the United States of America in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. In our own CARICOM subregion, we remain particularly vulnerable to the devastating effects of hurricanes. In the light of the extensive damage inflicted on the sister island of Grenada last year, we urge the United Nations, the international community and donor agencies to give priority attention to the CARICOM subregion in the areas of disaster preparedness and post-recovery assistance. The rise of global terrorism, the threat of the proliferation of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons and the concomitant prospect of them falling into the hands of non-State actors have emerged as issues of extreme urgency. The spread of small arms and light weapons - the weapons of choice in many intra-State conflicts - also poses a threat to the security of many countries. In that regard, CARICOM is particularly concerned about the increasing incidence of violent crime caused by the presence of illegal firearms and their association with the illicit drug trade. The confluence of all those interconnected threats and challenges, as daunting as this may seem, can and must be countered and effectively addressed. We must therefore demonstrate the political will and the commitment to act collectively to develop national and regional strategies with renewed resolve at the global level to support robust multilateralism, with a strong and effective United Nations at its centre. No one State, no matter how powerful, can act wholly by itself to resolve those common problems. There is also simply no legitimate alternative to the United Nations ó no comparable multilateral institution where all member States meet, deliberate, advance and harmonize their views and interests and negotiate and adopt instruments for collective action to the benefit of all. Last week, in adopting the outcome document, we agreed to a road map, as it were, of measures required to reorient the United Nations to meet todayís challenges. Even as we reaffirm our faith in the United Nations and our commitment to more robust multilateralism, and even as we work towards a more effective United Nations through the implementation of 8 the outcome document, we must recall that the main purpose of last weekís Meeting was to review the progress made since the Millennium Summit adopted the MDGs, five years ago. Indeed, it is the overall improvement in the lives of all our peoples, in whose name we are gathered here, by which history will ultimately judge or condemn us. Permit me, therefore, to offer some views on issues that Trinidad and Tobago considers paramount, and on the principles that should serve as a guide for our future deliberations. Those must of necessity include the following: the imperative of recommitting ourselves, as a matter of priority, to the full realization of the development goals and objectives that have emerged from major United Nations conferences and summits, including the MDGs; greater democratization of all United Nations organs and related bodies, in terms of both their composition and their mode of operations; strict observance of the rule of international law and justice; and respect for the commonly shared values on which the United Nations is founded. Development must remain central to the agenda of the United Nations. Trinidad and Tobago supports the increased attention of the international community towards Africa in overcoming its developmental challenges and in providing that continent with the increased resources needed to enable it to fully implement the New Partnership for Africaís Development (NEPAD). We welcome in particular the commitment contained in the outcome document to the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. We call for the full and effective implementation of the commitments, programmes and targets contained in the Mauritius Strategy, adopted at the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island States. Trinidad and Tobago has demonstrated remarkable strength and resilience in the face of a global environment characterized by rapid economic, social and other changes. We have embarked on the road to developed-nation status and hope to reach our goal by the year 2020 or earlier. Our Vision 20/20 includes the evolution of a technologically driven, knowledge-based society, a highly productive and globally competitive economy, and the provision of a standard of living comparable to that of the developed world. To achieve that vision, the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago is developing its human capital by creating a virtually seamless educational system from the primary to the tertiary level, with increasing emphasis on information technology and other related subjects. In this way we will ensure that our young people can become an integral part of the global labour force, with the necessary skills to compete locally, regionally and internationally. Our development agenda is not centred solely on the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. It is, as my Prime Minister stated from this very rostrum one year ago, 'part and parcel of a pan-Caribbean agenda to which we are irrevocably and solidly committed - [and in which the] development of Trinidad and Tobago and CARICOM are intertwined'. (A/59/PV.10, p. 8) We therefore remain committed to the integration of the Caribbean region through the instrumentality of CARICOM. To that end, Trinidad and Tobago has provided substantial financial and economic assistance to our CARICOM neighbours through a variety of mechanisms, including capital market activities, direct foreign investment, debt relief and direct bilateral assistance. We have also provided extensive hurricane relief as well as assistance to the private sector in CARICOM to strengthen their export capability. As an energy surplus country, Trinidad and Tobago has, through its own Petroleum Stabilization Fund, made financial assistance available to CARICOM countries to the tune of some $48 million per annum ó and this without any conditionalities. No development or security assessment in our subregion would be complete without consideration of the grave political, economic, social and security crisis that confronts the Haitian people. We look forward to the holding of free, fair, democratic and inclusive elections in Haiti and to the installation of a truly democratically elected Government in that nation, so that Haiti can once again sit in the Council of CARICOM. Trinidad and Tobago and other CARICOM States remain committed over the long term to securing the 9 progress and future of the Haitian people. We therefore urge the United Nations system and the international donor community to provide the necessary support to Haiti in the post-election period. Effective assistance, the disbursement of funds pledged and the release of other resources will ensure the progress of a nation currently overwhelmed by daunting challenges. In the area of disarmament, we share the disappointment of many Member States at our failure to demonstrate the necessary political will to ensure the consensus adoption of agreements leading to tangible and substantive results at the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and in the outcome document. Trinidad and Tobago reiterates its condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, and it is committed to doing its part to eradicate that scourge from our world. In that vein, we look forward to the early conclusion of a draft comprehensive convention on international terrorism. In addition, we welcome the action taken by members of the international community to combat terrorism, but we would wish to reiterate that the human rights and the civil and political rights of individuals must be respected in the course of any counter-terrorism actions taken by Member States of the international community. As a small island developing State, we face difficulties associated with the evils of the drug trade and the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons. As a result, it is becoming increasingly difficult to stem the tide of criminal activity within our society. Trinidad and Tobago believes that an international order based on the rule of law must be observed in relations between and among States. This fundamental pillar is indispensable for the proper functioning of the international system. In their relations, States must have regard, at all times, for the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and of international law. We reaffirm in particular those principles relating to the sovereign equality of all States Members of the United Nations, non-interference in the internal affairs of Members, respect for their political and territorial integrity, the right of peoples to self-determination, and recourse to peaceful means for the settlement of disputes. We also reaffirm the important role of the General Assembly in the development of international treaties. Trinidad and Tobago expresses its deep regret at the failure of the outcome document to include any reference to the International Criminal Court or the question of impunity. In that regard, we call on all States Members of the United Nations to become parties to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court in order to ensure that it becomes a truly global instrument for the trial of those accused of committing crimes that affront the conscience of all humanity. My country welcomes the cooperation between the International Criminal Court and the United Nations, which was highlighted earlier this year when the Security Council decided to refer the situation in Darfur to the Court. We look forward to increased opportunities for collaboration and cooperation between these two important global institutions in putting an end to such crimes and to the culture of impunity that has for so long accompanied them. Trinidad and Tobago reaffirms its commitment to the reform and strengthening of the United Nations. We share the view that the reform of the United Nations must seek to reinforce and consolidate the democratic foundation upon which this Organization was built. We are of the view that cardinal to the reform agenda must be the revitalization and restoration of the role and authority of the General Assembly, as the chief deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of the United Nations. Trinidad and Tobago supports the comprehensive reform of the Security Council. In that regard, we wish to underline the importance of the adoption by the international community of a comprehensive set of reform measures. It is imperative that expansion should proceed on the basis of making the Council more representative of the general membership of the United Nations. It should contribute to a greater democratization of its functioning. It should impart greater legitimacy and transparency to its decisions, and it should be achieved through the broadest possible consultation. Trinidad and Tobago also looks forward to participating in discussions on reform of the United 10 Nations human rights machinery and on the pending issues relating to the Peacebuilding Commission. Trinidad and Tobago commends the Secretary- General for his ongoing efforts to enhance the effective management of the United Nations. An efficient, effective, well-resourced Secretariat which is accountable to the General Assembly is indispensable to achieving the objectives of a strengthened Organization. Trinidad and Tobago welcomes the Secretariat and management reform proposals contained in the outcome document as a first step towards a necessary thorough debate and discussion, and we look forward to participating actively in these negotiations. It is imperative, however, that these proposals meet the test of viability, that they have the sanction of the established intergovernmental process and that they do not individually or collectively seek to derogate, diminish or further marginalize the role of the General Assembly. As we embark on the path of implementation of the outcome document, we must spare no effort to ensure that the future of the United Nations is not compromised by the exigencies of the moment. Institutional renewal, a strengthened United Nations and a robust multilateralism must allow us to forge a truly effective global response and commitment to the common threats and challenges that confront us. Trinidad and Tobago pledges to do its part to make the United Nations a more effective instrument in the common service of all our peoples.I wish to congratulate you most warmly, Mr. President, on your unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session and to assure you of my delegationís full support. May I also express our profound appreciation to your distinguished predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping of Gabon, for the effective leadership he provided during the fifty-ninth session. I am most delighted and indeed honoured to address this Assembly for the first time as President of the Republic of Namibia. I stand before you with the democratic mandate given to me by the people of Namibia during our presidential elections in November 2004 and following my inauguration on 21 March 2005. At the same occasion, we celebrated 15 years of our national independence, which, as the Assembly will recall, was brought about by a long and bitter struggle waged by the people of Namibia under the leadership of the national liberation movement, SWAPO, with wide international support, and thus culminating in the implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978). I recall these important events in our history to underline the fact that Namibiaís nationhood is directly linked to the United Nations. In this regard, allow me, therefore, on behalf of the Government and people of Namibia and indeed on my own behalf to express our sincere appreciation and gratitude to the men and women of the United Nations family, who stood side by side with us until final victory was achieved. As we mark the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations, it is indeed proper and fitting to reflect on the achievements and setbacks of our Organization since its inception. In this exercise, we must be guided by an honest and objective analysis of events along the path we have travelled so far. In this connection, I would like to take this opportunity to commend our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, most sincerely for his tireless efforts to strengthen the United Nations system through the proposed reforms. Indeed, the challenges we face today require renewed commitment and visionary leadership to ensure efficient and effective service delivery to all humanity. When we address the crucial issue of the reform of the United Nations system, we must be guided by the principles of democracy, equity, justice and fairness for all. At the centre of this overdue exercise must be the compelling need to serve all our people better, regardless of their race, religion or status of development. With specific reference to the Security Council, genuine democratization and reform can take place only when all its members are accorded the same privileges - including the veto power, which is currently enjoyed only by a few member States, who use it for national self-interest. That creates resentment and mistrust from those who are negatively affected by the abuse of veto power. It is against this background that African States adopted the Harare Declaration in 1997, in which they 20 demanded that the veto power be abolished. However, if the veto power is maintained, it is only logical that new permanent member States who join the expanded Security Council must of necessity be accorded the same rights and privileges. Otherwise, such reform will be cosmetic at best, and meaningless at worst. On this very crucial matter, Namibia fully stands by the Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration, as reaffirmed by the Fourth Extraordinary Summit of the African Union, held in Addis Ababa on 4 August 2005. We collectively maintain that the African continent, which has been underrepresented for so long, deserves two permanent seats with veto power and five non-permanent seats on the Council. This demand is logical, reasonable and justifiable. We therefore call on all regions to support Africaís position. It is indeed only when we stand together on firm principle that we can effect real and meaningful change in our only truly international Organization, the United Nations. Concerning the General Assembly, Namibia holds the strong view that that organ, which provides a genuinely democratic and representative platform for all Member States to be heard, should play a critical role in the entire reform process of our international Organization. We are equally of the strong conviction that the authority of the General Assembly should be reasserted, to ensure that its resolutions and decisions are binding and enforceable. In this crucial process, our highest priority should be our collective commitment to ensure sustainable social and economic development on a global scale. In order to achieve that goal, we must be guided by a strong spirit of human solidarity and a shared sense of justice and fairness for all. For many developing countries, implementation of the Millennium Development Goals is severely hampered by the lack of adequate resources, compounded by other challenges, including the HIV/AIDS pandemic, malaria and tuberculosis, as well as other socio-economic difficulties. Against that background, the Economic and Social Council must be strengthened and given sufficient resources, together with the United Nations agencies, in order to take the lead in implementing effective human-centred country programmes. We accept the fact that Governments in developing countries have a responsibility to work together and to encourage the active participation of the private sector, civil society and other stakeholders in bringing about sustainable social and economic development for all segments of our society. It is equally important that Governments and institutions in the economically advanced countries offer genuine partnership by providing new and additional resources, commensurate with their commitments in line with the Millennium Development Goals. To that end, if the countries regarded as low- middle-income countries are to meet the Millennium Development Goals by 2015, they will require increased support from the international community, including market access as well as access to financial sources such as the International Development Association and official development assistance. Our ability to effectively eliminate threats to international peace and security will depend on the manner in which we address the social and economic challenges facing our peoples at the global level. In our review, during the 2005 summit, of the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals and of other decisions taken by major international conferences, it became clear that we still have a long way to go to honour our commitments. It is therefore important that we narrow our differences and form a common front with a common objective to better serve humanity. We should therefore make collective and effective use of existing multilateral mechanisms, especially the United Nations, in order to succeed in eliminating current and future threats. The process of decolonization has not yet been completed. The peoples of Palestine and of the Western Sahara continue to suffer under foreign occupation and are denied the exercise of their inalienable rights to self-determination and national independence. It is our collective responsibility to rectify that historical injustice. In that regard, we call for the immediate and unconditional establishment of an independent State of Palestine and the full implementation of the United Nations settlement plan for Western Sahara. I am equally concerned at the fact that the people of Cuba continue to suffer from the effects of the unilateral embargo imposed on them by the United States of America. We call on the international community to demand the unconditional lifting of that embargo. 21 In conclusion, I wish to reiterate my Governmentís hope that, when we accept our collective responsibility, the United Nations can and will succeed in preserving international peace and security and therefore guarantee equality and justice for all humanity. We, the peoples of the United Nations, must do what is required to bequeath to the next generations a better future. To that end, the Government and the people of Namibia pledge our total commitment.I am very pleased, Mr. President, on behalf of the delegation of the Niger, to express our warmest congratulations on your election to the presidency of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. In electing you, we recognize your outstanding qualities as a diplomat and as an active player on the ground - qualities that augur well for the success of the present session. Rest assured, Sir, that you will have the full support of my delegation. We wish you every success in accomplishing your task. To your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, I wish to express our appreciation and our gratitude for the wisdom, skill and insight with which he guided the work of our previous session and prepared for the High-level Plenary Meeting. To Secretary-General Kofi Annan, I wish to pay a well-deserved tribute for the decisive role he has played at the head of our Organization. We pledge our unswerving support for his efforts to reform the United Nations system and adapt it to the concerns of today. Need we recall the historic nature of our session? It is taking place exactly 10 years after the Declaration and Platform for Action were adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing and the Programme of Action was adopted by the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen. The Secretary-General, in his important report entitled 'In larger freedom: towards development, security and human rights for all' (A/59/2005), made a comprehensive diagnosis of the multiform and interdependent threats and challenges facing the world and, at the same time, made interesting recommendations to deal with them. Equally historic is the outcome document (resolution 60/1) of the High-level Plenary Meeting, which we just adopted. It is a source of great hope in our arduous efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. Among those threats and challenges, to which I shall refer again presently, are terrorism, the inequalities of the international economic and trade system, and violations of human rights. Terrorism continues to rage throughout the world, seriously threatening international peace and security. The recent attacks in London and Sharm el-Sheikh attest eloquently to that fact. The fight against this scourge must therefore be strengthened and carried out over the long term, but within the framework of international law. In that regard, we believe it is crucial to accelerate the process of elaborating an international convention to fight terrorism. Such a convention should define the concept clearly to avoid ambiguity. Moreover, the fight against terrorism cannot be effective and fruitful without appropriate international cooperation. It is because of such cooperation - which has enabled us to strengthen the capacities of our defence and security forces - that my country has recently had considerable success in combating this phenomenon. Peace and security also require the adoption of effective measures against the proliferation of weapons in general. Here, I welcome the initiative of the Economic Community of West African States - which the Niger currently chairs - aimed at establishing a legally binding instrument: its moratorium on the manufacture, import and export of weapons. That approach has led us to regret the failure at the most recent review conference of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Today, international peace and security are being sorely tested by a steadily rising number of conflicts, some of which seem to be endless quagmires because of their persistence and recurrence. In West Africa, although some hotbeds of tension are in the process of being defused - such as in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea-Bissau - the subregion is still not completely 20 free of insecurity and instability. We hope for positive developments in Cote d'Ivoire that will permit a swift return to normalcy in that country, formerly a harbour of peace and prosperity. In Western Sahara, the Niger reaffirms its support for the Secretary-General's efforts to bring about a just and lasting settlement of the conflict in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions. In Burundi, we welcome the positive outcome of the peace process culminating in the legislative and presidential elections. Peace must not only be re-established and maintained; it must also be consolidated. In that regard, the Secretary-General's proposal concerning the creation of a Peacebuilding Commission is of capital importance, in that it will enable many countries emerging from conflict to break the vicious circle of violence and devastation. Concerning the Middle East, my country wishes to reaffirm once again that settlement of the Israeli- Palestinian conflict necessarily depends upon the realization of the rights of the Palestinian people, including the creation of an independent, sovereign and viable State. In that regard, Israel's withdrawal from the Gaza Strip is a positive step that, we hope, will permit the resumption of negotiations within the framework of the road map. With regard to Jammu and Kashmir, we remain convinced that the relevant United Nations resolutions must be implemented to enable the Kashmiri people to exercise their right to self-determination. That should further reduce the tensions between India and Pakistan. The Niger, a member of the contact group of the Organization of the Islamic Conference on that issue, encourages the two parties to move forward in their talks aimed at a definitive settlement of this problem. This year, as we assess the progress made in honouring the commitments made at the Millennium Summit, the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting, which we just adopted, once again emphasizes the interdependence of States and highlights the need for increased solidarity. To that end, solidarity and international cooperation must, more than ever before, go beyond professions of faith if they are to be more effective. In any event, solidarity must no longer be infinitely variable, as is unfortunately the case today. The Niger, recently the victim of an acute food crisis, would like international solidarity to be rethought so that we can invest in the future by implementing lasting solutions that will ensure permanent food security for our people. Without a rethought solidarity, many African countries, including mine, may unfortunately never be able to achieve the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. That would require an increase in official development assistance, from both a qualitative and a quantitative perspective. In that regard, we welcome the decision of those developed countries that have elaborated a timetable enabling them to achieve the set objective of 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product by 2015. A rethought solidarity would also require the establishment of innovative financing sources that would not place an excessive burden on developing countries. We welcome the recent decisions taken by partners, particularly the Group of Eight and the European Union. We urge the international community and the United Nations to further strengthen their cooperation with the New Partnership for Africaâ€™s Development and with new initiatives for Africa, including the Blair Commission's International Finance, Facility, President Bush's Millennium Challenge Account and the Chirac-Lula initiative. With regard to international trade, we hope that the multilateral negotiations under way will lead to mutually advantageous results by 2006, as planned. However, in the interest of mutual and shared development, there must be an end to all agricultural subsidies on exports. In that regard, the Hong Kong Ministerial Conference planned for December is a crucial event for us that, once again, should be attended with this rethought solidarity in mind, particularly with regard to the poorest countries. Concerning institutional reform of the United Nations, my country wishes to pay tribute to the far- sightedness of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, in identifying the stakes of such reform and in making his interesting and important recommendations. The Niger is fully committed to the role played by Africa in the international arena. That collective commitment has led us to forge a common position on United Nations reform, which my country wholeheartedly supports. In fact, our continent, whose importance is more apparent every day, must pursue 21 with determination and in unity its fight for the democratization of international relations. The United Nations is the only world body with the mandate of addressing issues of security, development and human rights. To be equal to that immense and delicate mission, it must be fair, representative and democratic. It must also base its actions on multilateralism and consultation, particularly within the General Assembly. The long-awaited reform of the Security Council must be pursued in transparency so that a renewed United Nations can be more democratic and more representative of today's world. The Economic and Social Council, for its part, must be the forum for coordinating and drafting strategies so that the excellent opportunities created in this increasingly globalized world will also be accessible to the poorest countries. The establishment of a Peacebuilding Commission has filled a significant void, because it constitutes a formerly non-existent link between security and development. We welcome the creation of the Human Rights Council, based on the principles of universality and non-exclusion. These are the prerequisites for strengthening and improving our shared House.I should like to extend my warmest congratulations to you, Sir, Ambassador Jan Eliasson of Sweden, on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I should also like to express fraternal greetings to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, whose wisdom and commitment to multilateralism have made an immense contribution to progress here at the United Nations. Minister Jean Ping of Gabon deserves special recognition for the competent and dedicated manner in which he presided over the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. This is a rare and historic opportunity to promote change; let us not waste it. Peace, development, democracy and respect for human rights are objectives that unite us. Reform must be our motto. The final document adopted yesterday at the summit (resolution 60/1) has unquestionably fallen short of our expectations. However, it provides us with guidelines that will enable us to carry out our work. The General Assembly must be strengthened. More than ever, we need a forum with universal representation, in which the crucial issues of today’s world can be democratically debated. The General Assembly must provide leadership and political guidance to the Organization as a whole. In supporting the authority of the General Assembly by enabling it to act more speedily and be more productive, we are supporting the very essence of the United Nations. The Economic and Social Council must again become a dynamic and influential organ. It must help us to come together on issues related to trade, finance and development in an environment free from prejudice and dogma. The Economic and Social Council should be a privileged, deliberative forum in our quest for reconciliation between the objectives of sustainable economic growth and the reduction of the inequalities caused by asymmetric globalization. President Lula suggested this year, at the summit of the Group of Eight (G-8) at Gleneagles, that we could start raising the profile of the Economic and Social Council by organizing a high-level segment, with the participation of the Finance Minister of the country holding the G-8 presidency. The Economic and Social Council must also help to promote peace and stability in partnership with the Security Council, as provided for in Article 65 of the Charter. The establishment of a Peacebuilding Commission will bridge an important institutional gap. It will be a link between security and development. Currently, there is no such link. The structures and mechanisms of the Organization in the human rights field must be improved and reinforced. We support the creation of a Human Rights Council, based on the principles of universality, dialogue and non-selectivity. The elaboration of an annual global report on human rights by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, covering all countries and situations, will help to increase the credibility of the United Nations human rights system. The Secretary-General has called for better coordination in our work to protect victims of grave and systematic violations of human rights. International cooperation in the field of human rights and humanitarian assistance must be guided by the principle of collective responsibility. We have maintained on several occasions — in our region and elsewhere — that the principle of non-intervention in the domestic affairs of States must be associated with the idea of “non-indifference”. We have been called upon to deal with new concepts, such as human security and the responsibility to protect. We agree that they merit a proper place in our system. But it is an illusion to believe that we can combat the dysfunctional politics at the root of grave human rights violations by military means alone, or even by economic sanctions, without fully utilizing diplomacy and persuasion. Human security is mainly the result of just and equitable societies that promote and protect human rights, strengthen democracy and respect the rule of law, while creating opportunities for economic development and social justice. The United Nations 6 was not created to disseminate the notion that order should be imposed by force. That extreme expedient can be considered only when all other efforts have been exhausted and peaceful solutions have proved not to be viable. A judgement as to the existence of such exceptional circumstances must always be a multilateral one. The Charter foresees two situations in which the use of force is permissible: to restore or maintain international peace and security, and in the case of the right to self-defence. Mixing those two concepts would blur the meaning of the very tenets of this Organization. Security Council reform is the centrepiece of the reform process in which we are engaged. The vast majority of Member States recognize the need to make the Security Council more representative and democratic. At this historic juncture, no Security Council reform effort will be meaningful unless it contemplates an increase in the number of permanent and non- permanent seats, with developing countries from Africa, Latin America and Asia included in both categories. We cannot accept the perpetuation of imbalances that run contrary to the very spirit of multilateralism. Above all, a more efficient Council must be capable of ensuring that its decisions are implemented. It is not reasonable to expect the Council to continue to expand its agenda and responsibilities without addressing its democracy deficit. Two years ago, President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva declared before the Assembly that every nation that is committed to democracy at the domestic level must strive for more transparent, legitimate and representative decision-making processes in its external relations. In the same spirit, Secretary-General Kofi Annan pointed out the contradictions to be overcome, stating: “We are the ones who go around the world lecturing everybody about democracy. I think it is about time we apply it to ourselves, and then show that there is effective representation”. We are still far from accomplishing the goals of the Millennium Declaration. This week’s summit has stressed the importance of a renewed commitment to development assistance and contributed to promoting universal acceptance of the target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product devoted to official development assistance. At the same time, we must continue to work on innovative and additional sources of financing. I note with satisfaction that since the Summit of World Leaders for Action against Hunger and Poverty, convened last year by President Lula, we have achieved significant progress. A growing number of Governments and non-governmental organizations have joined in the effort to eradicate hunger and poverty. This is the only war in which we are engaged. This is the only war we can all win. This year we witnessed yet again brutal acts of terrorism. Innocent civilians, women and children are today victims of groups who stand as adversaries to the values we share. As a country whose identity cannot be dissociated from the notions of tolerance and diversity, Brazil rejects in the strongest terms those abhorrent acts, which go against the very notion of humanity. We will continue to lend our support to increased international cooperation in the fight against terrorism and in the struggle to eliminate its deep-rooted causes. Such efforts must be undertaken with due respect for international law and human rights. The fight against terrorism cannot be viewed in terms of police repression alone. Nor can such repression result in absurd and indiscriminate killing like terrorism itself. Despite the fact that there is no automatic linkage between poverty and terrorism, communities can be exposed to extreme attitudes by fanatical groups as a result of grave social and economic problems, especially when associated with the absence of civil and political liberties. I wish to express Brazil’s readiness to work intensively with a view to the prompt conclusion of a comprehensive convention against terrorism. We recognize the risks of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. At the same time, we cannot disregard the importance of reducing and dismantling existing arsenals of all such weapons. We regret that the seventh Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons did not produce tangible results. Together with non-proliferation efforts, we must continue to work tirelessly towards nuclear disarmament. In addition to the challenges I have just referred to, we are faced with two crises of global scope: the 7 pandemic explosion of HIV/AIDS and the serious threats posed by climate change. Brazil will continue to promote the implementation of existing multilateral instruments to fight those scourges. Brazil is committed to reinforcing the strategic alliance with its main partner in our region — Argentina — and to the promotion of a prosperous, integrated and politically stable South America, building upon our experience in the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR). We will tirelessly strive for MERCOSUR’s advancement in the economic and political fields. The South American Community of Nations, which was founded last year in Cuzco, Peru, can be seen as a driving force for integration in Latin America and the Caribbean as a whole. Our efforts in establishing partnerships with other developing countries go beyond our immediate region. The India-Brazil-South Africa Dialogue Forum (IBSA) has brought together three large democracies from Africa, Asia and Latin America that are keen on deepening the economic, political and cultural ties between them and between their regions. Together with other partners, we have joined in setting up the Group of Twenty (G-20), which places developing countries at the centre of agricultural trade negotiations of the World Trade Organization’s Doha round. Thanks to the role played by the G-20, it has been possible to combine trade liberalization with social justice in the context of the multilateral trading system. Strengthening our ties with Africa has been a long-standing aspiration of Brazil’s. No previous Government has pursued that objective with the resolve demonstrated by President Lula. Trade and cooperation between Brazil and Africa have grown significantly. Political dialogue has intensified. We have been contributing to the consolidation of peace and democracy in countries such as Guinea-Bissau and Sao Tome and Principe. We have helped to fight hunger, develop agriculture and combat the scourge of HIV/AIDS in various brother countries of Africa. The same sense of solidarity inspires us to participate in United Nations peace efforts in Haiti. The Brazilian and Latin American presence in Haiti is unprecedented, in terms of both troops and political commitment. We are motivated by three main objectives: establishing a safe environment, promoting dialogue among the various political actors with a view to a genuine democratic transition and securing effective international support for institutional, social and economic reconstruction. Haiti is likely to be the first test case for the Peacebuilding Commission. Brazil and the Arab world are renewing their ties of friendship, inspired by strong historical and cultural affinities. Apart from bilateral initiatives, Brazil has been strengthening its relations with regional groupings such as the Gulf Cooperation Council and the Arab League. In May 2005, an unprecedented summit of South American and Arab States took place in Brasilia. That pioneering initiative brought together two regions of the developing world in a concrete demonstration of harmony of civilizations. On several trips to the Middle East, I had the opportunity to talk to variety of people, including leaders from Israel and Palestine. They are aware of Brazil’s willingness to support the work of the Quartet as a partner for peace. The practice of tolerance and respect for others, as well as the harmonious co- existence of different communities in our country, constitute our comparative advantage. I believe that conviction is shared by eminent persons and political leaders from both Israel and Palestine. At the beginning of this new chapter in the life of the United Nations, Brazil remains committed to the ideals that led to the creation of the only Organization of universal scope, the only body that can guarantee a future of peace and prosperity — not for the few, but for all.Just a few days ago, in this same Hall, the follow-up High-level Meeting was held on the Millennium, bringing together an unprecedented number of high political leaders from all over the world. After a process of discussion and negotiation, both lengthy and thorough, we adopted what should serve as our road map for the period to come. The final document should not only inspire but also give specific direction to, the actions of the international community in the United Nations. While not all our expectations or ambitions were realized in that document and considerable gaps cry out to be filled — I am thinking particularly of the crucial areas of disarmament and non-proliferation — we must, nevertheless, welcome the fact that around the central pillars of the United Nations, namely, development, peace and human rights, broad agreement has crystallized and a new international agenda has in fact emerged. It is particularly appropriate and propitious that the current regular session of the General Assembly has opened immediately following on the important High-level Meeting. While we may feel that the foundation was laid during that important event, what 14 we have to do now is to complete what has been undertaken, consolidate the sections of walls that have been erected and build those parts that have only been sketched out — and here I am thinking particularly of the Human Rights Council — and provide our project with a sound roof. Renewal of multilateralism in the context of the special conditions at the beginning of this century and the reform of the United Nations must be conducted with determination, driven by a real sense of urgency in the light of the significance of the task that awaits us and the crucial matters at stake for billions of men and women. Knowing as I do, Sir, your personal commitment, your dynamism and your numerous qualities, I am convinced that you will direct the work of the sixtieth regular session of the General Assembly in such a way so as to ensure that we can, all together, carry out the urgent mandate entrusted to us by the High-level Meeting and, more particularly, by our peoples, who have placed their hopes on a revamped and strengthened United Nations system. It is in this spirit that my country is prepared to subscribe with conviction to the accountability pact proposed by our Secretary-General, whom I would, once again, like to congratulate for what he has been doing at the head of our Organization. I would note with satisfaction your intention, Sir, to present a detailed and operational workplan in order to organize our work as effectively as possible so that we can complete the tasks awaiting us according to a fixed timetable. We have to provide concrete evidence that our Assembly will not go back to business as usual once the spotlights have been switched off. For all those — and I am one of them — who believe that our Assembly, a veritable parliament of the nations of the world, has a paramount role to play in the emergence of a strong political consensus at the world level, the quick adoption of specific operational decisions should deal a sound rebuff to all those Cassandras, all those cynics and all those who uphold the status quo that opposes change. In his opening statement at the sixtieth regular session of the General Assembly, our Secretary- General clearly defined the mission that awaits us in the coming months. Among the subjects that claim our attention, I would focus on the following: human rights, in order to strengthen the impact of this essential dimension in all the activities of the United Nations, particularly through the immediate creation of a Human Rights Council on the basis of the positive groundwork laid in the preparatory work of the High- level Meeting; the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission, an innovative body; the reform of the main bodies of our Organization, including the urgent need to enlarge the Security Council in both categories of membership in order to make the Council more representative of the realities at the beginning of the twenty-first century and to make it more transparent and more effective; giving concrete form to the idea of “the responsibility to protect”, whose confirmation in the final document is one of the main breakthroughs of the recent High-level Meeting; and finally, the reform of the administrative and financial management of the United Nations in order to consolidate the effectiveness and integrity of the Organization. Let me also devote a few minutes to the question of development. Development remains the main political and moral issue of our time. It must be noted that progress towards the Millennium Development Goals has been uneven and some backward movement must be acknowledged, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. The recently published Human Development Report notes that “In the midst of an increasingly prosperous global economy, 10.7 million children every year do not live to see their fifth birthday, and more than 1 billion people survive in abject poverty on less than $1 per day. The HIV/AIDS pandemic has inflicted the single greatest reversal in human development. In 2003, the pandemic claimed 3 million lives and left another five million people infected.” (Human Development Report 2005, p. 1) In view of these alarming facts, setting up and creating a genuine partnership for development, based on the groundwork of the Monterrey Conference and on the basis of shared responsibility borne by both the donor countries and the recipient countries, remains a matter of priority. The countries of the South must take their own development in hand by defining detailed national strategies that are effective and directed towards good governance and combating corruption. The countries of the North must fulfil their commitments in matters of trade, debt reduction and enhancing the quality of aid and good practices. Particular emphasis should be laid on increasing 15 financial flows for development. In this connection, when Luxembourg occupied the presidency of the European Union during the first half of this year, the member States of the European Union took the historic decision to commit themselves on a precise timetable to make a considerable increase of their official development aid (ODA) in order to achieve the target of 0.7 per cent of their gross national products by 2015 at the latest. Four of the five countries, including my own, that have achieved or gone beyond 0.7 per cent — a target reconfirmed by the High-level Meeting — are member States of the European Union. The Government of Luxembourg has confirmed its intention to increase its ODA contribution in the years to come to one per cent of its gross national income. Unfortunately, too often the fruits of development are erased by natural or man-made disasters. In the Sudan, in the Great Lakes region and elsewhere, this truth is demonstrated daily. There can be no development without security. There can be no security without development. That is why I particularly welcome the agreement reached during the summit on the establishment of a Peacebuilding Commission. That should make it possible for us to contemplate the tremendous problems of transition confronting the countries emerging from conflict from an overall viewpoint, bringing together the dimensions of crisis management, humanitarian aid, reconstruction of State structures and local and legal structures and providing essential public goods and services, while at the same time re- launching the process of economic and social development. On the basis of the mandate given by the summit, Luxembourg actively supports the reform of the Central Emergency Revolving Fund, which should take shape in coming months so that this renovated Fund can become fully operational by the beginning of 2006. My country has already announced, just a few days ago here in New York, that it would be making a contribution of $4 million to the capital of this Fund, and other States have also confirmed large contributions. If development is, according to the well-known formula, the new name of peace, we cannot fail, nevertheless, to note that numerous international conflicts and intra-State conflicts and hotbeds of tension continue to dot the face of the world. Peace and stability in the Middle East continue to be at the forefront of our concerns. The current President of the Council of the European Union, my friend Jack Straw, recalled two days ago from this rostrum the spirit in which the negotiations on the nuclear issue were conducted with Iran in recent months. Cooperation and respect for international norms and treaties, rather than discrimination or a desire to create dependency, were what motivated us in this case. In the Paris Agreement Iran subscribed to a total suspension of all activities connected with enrichment and all reprocessing activities. It is that commitment that made it possible to develop political and economic cooperation with the European Union. It is that commitment — which, I hardly need to recall, has been ratified by the International Atomic Energy Agency — that I today call upon Iran to respect. In this context, I should also like to welcome the agreement that was reached just today with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to abandon all nuclear programmes and to rejoin the Nuclear Non- Proliferation Treaty (NPT). This is excellent news. On 22 June 2005, more than 80 countries and organizations met in Brussels at the International Conference on Iraq, sponsored jointly by the European Union and the United States, with the presence of our Secretary-General, and expressed their support for the Iraqi Transitional Government and its political, economic and security priorities. That important Conference made it possible, in particular, for the States members of the European Union to reaffirm their unanimous and united support for a secure, stable, unified, prosperous, democratic Iraq, respectful of human rights, which will benefit fully from the exercise of its sovereignty, cooperate constructively with its neighbours and with the international community, and end violence in that country. And it is our Organization that, more than ever, must be a driving force, play a leading role, in that context. The Near East has only rarely been the scene of positive developments. This is why I should like particularly and expressly to welcome the political courage of the leaders of the two sides regarding the successful withdrawal from Gaza and certain parts of the north of the West Bank. Now we should take advantage of that positive dynamic to launch a genuine peace prospect based on the road map, which continues 16 to be the essential framework in this matter. The conditions to promote the emergence of a climate of peace were recalled by the European Council on 16 and 17 June 2005. In particular, the fact that the Palestinian Authority is taking control of Gaza now provides it with an opportunity to demonstrate its institutional and administrative maturity, particularly as regards maintaining law and order and combating terrorism. The cessation of all acts of violence by the parties is also an essential requirement. Regarding the crucial question of Israeli colonization activities in the occupied territories, the European Council noted that “the policy of colonization is an obstacle to peace and threatens making virtually impossible any solution based on the coexistence of two States”. In the same context, the European Council expressed concern at the continuation of the building of the separation barrier in the occupied Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem and its surrounding areas, which contradicts the pertinent provisions of international law. At the same time, of course, the Council recognized the right of Israel to protect its citizens against attacks. Let us assume that the next meeting of the Quartet, which will be held in New York tomorrow, will find political formulas that will make it possible to continue the positive dynamic of disengagement from Gaza and will clear the way for a just and lasting peace in this divided part of our world. As very often happens, patches of clouds and glimmers of hope are mingled when we analyse the international situation, but one thing remains constant, and that is the central role of the United Nations in the search for international peace and security. Sixty years after the signing of the San Francisco Charter, we have all met together here to confirm our contract of confidence with this Organization, the United Nations, which is our common heritage — a United Nations renovated and reformed, synchronized with the threats and challenges of our times and able to respond to the expectations of the peoples of the world. As a signatory to the Charter in 1945, Luxembourg, as far as it is concerned, is ready to renew this pledge of confidence with enthusiasm, confidence and determination.Please accept my congratulations, Sir, on your election to the presidency, and my assurances that Kiribati will support you during your term of office. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the outgoing President, Mr. Jean Ping, for his able and effective leadership during the fifty-ninth session. During last week's High-level Plenary Meeting, we discussed, among other issues, the future of this Organization and what we expect from it. We heard about the achievements made by our Organization over the past 60 years. We express our gratitude to all nations for the cooperation and support that led to those achievements. I would like to congratulate the Secretary-General as well as his staff, for his leadership of our Organization at these difficult and trying times. We also heard about the shortcomings of our Organization. While we recognize and fully endorse the need for reform in the Organization, we are concerned that many of the shortcomings in terms of the promotion of sustainable development in Member nations, in particular in the small island developing States, are the result of our inability to deliver on commitments made in the past. Individual Member nations have the prime responsibility for achieving sustainable development within their borders, but with globalization and the increasing interdependency of our world, individual nations cannot achieve sustainable development acting alone. To attain sustainable development in small island developing States, the need for external cooperation and support is understandably more pronounced. Having taken stock of progress over the past 60 years, the challenge now is to consider measures by which we can collectively and through the United Nations address the needs and concerns highlighted during the High-level Plenary Meeting. Of particular concern are the special needs of the least developed countries and small island developing States. While Kiribati may be categorized as a least developed country and a small island developing State, the people of Kiribati have a genuine desire to develop themselves and at the same time to develop their country. As their elected representatives, we have a clear mandate and duty to make our best efforts to meet their development aspirations. 2 Population issues are a major challenge in our development efforts. Concerted efforts to promote effective family planning have been given greater focus in our national development strategies. The growing number of unemployed youth brings with it new social issues. We are committed to directing the energy of our youth to productive and worthwhile pursuits. Employment opportunities abroad for both men and women, such as the arrangements in place with foreign shipping companies, fishing companies and cruise operators, will be expanded and new opportunities explored. The New Zealand Government's Pacific Access Category scheme is a very welcome model that merits closer scrutiny by other countries. The spiralling cost of fuel is an issue of grave concern to us. The impact of rising fuel costs has been hardest on the least developed countries, which are also the least able to afford it. Therefore, the need to accelerate the development of alternative sources of energy, including clean and renewable energy, is now greater than it ever was. We firmly believe that our fishery resources can provide us with the basis for achieving a sustainable future, but in order to be able to do so, we shall need the assistance of our development partners in providing the necessary incentives through the provision of credit schemes to those investors who are able and willing to develop onshore facilities within resource-owning countries. But before we can achieve that, and if we are to achieve our Millennium Development Goals, we shall continue to be reliant on the official development assistance target of 0.7 per cent of gross national income being met. Environmental issues and, in particular, climate change and sea-level rise are security issues for countries comprising low-lying coral atolls, such as Kiribati. A global and concerted effort, including stronger political commitment, is required to achieve the objectives of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. We are appreciative of the support we have received and continue to receive in developing adaptation measures to climate change and sea-level rise. We nevertheless acknowledge the need now to seriously consider the option of having to relocate our peoples when necessary — an option that can be meaningfully addressed only within this forum. Kiribati fully endorses the need for comprehensive reform in the United Nations. The environment in which the Organization now operates is so very different from that of 1945. Reform must take place to ensure that the Organization continues to be a relevant institution for its Member countries. Terrorism threatens all. Kiribati condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and we support the global fight against terrorism. We have noted with increasing alarm the globalization of terror. We cannot afford to be complacent about terrorism and will contribute, within our resource constraints, to the war against terror. We seek support from those able and willing in the implementation and enforcement of counter-terrorism legislation we have passed in compliance with our obligations as a member of the global community. Kiribati has contributed to the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands. We will continue to contribute to that regional effort as long as there is need. Kiribati is also interested in contributing civilian police to peacekeeping missions of the United Nations. Kiribati supports an expansion of the permanent and non-permanent membership of the Security Council. In our view, those countries, such as Japan, that are significant contributors to United Nations programmes promoting peace, security and development merit a permanent seat on the Security Council. As we consider reform of the United Nations and as we celebrate 60 years of the United Nations, we believe that now is also the time to consider the issue of Taiwan and its 23 million people. Taiwan is a country where democracy thrives, where the rule of law prevails and where human rights are respected. Taiwan has also remained able and willing to make significant contributions to the collaborative efforts to secure global peace, security and prosperity. We also believe that, whatever the views are on the question of whether Taiwan is a domestic issue or not, there can be no justification for supporting threatening initiatives, such as the so called anti- secession law, which could have such far-reaching effects on regional and global stability. I am confident that, under your leadership, Sir, we will work with unity of purpose and perhaps with less posturing to address the challenges before us.After the celebratory and powerful statements made here by leaders from all four corners of the world during these past few days commemorating the sixtieth anniversary of this Organization, all that is left for Ghana to do is to emphasize a few points in this annual general debate of the General Assembly. The record attendance of heads of State and Government at this year’s meetings is evidence that, more and more, nations of the world are accepting and looking up to the United Nations to provide the moral and practical framework and leadership for the shaping and governance of the onrushing global village. Without doubt, the Organization has become both the main centre for the mobilization and deployment of resources for the relief of victims of natural and man- made disasters alike, and also the chief agency and catalyst for the spread of opportunities for progress and development for all humankind. Reassuringly, it is galvanizing the conscience of humankind to resist and desist from inhuman conduct, whilst putting in place a global social safety net for the poor, the weak and the handicapped in a world of strident competition. Ghana will therefore continue to contribute to the ongoing debate on United Nations reform, especially the strengthening of the Organization’s institutions at all levels. The reforms must radiate the spirit of common humanity in which each person is his brother’s keeper. That will engender the trust needed to anchor the tolerance and goodwill which must be the cornerstone of the globalization process. The increasing realization of our common humanity will lessen the divisive tendencies of racial, religious, political, gender, cultural and other social categorizations. Already, the world, under the leadership of this Organization, is doing well in its many dramatic rallies in rushing aid to victims wherever disaster occurs, such as the Indian Ocean States after the tsunami and the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans, here in the United States of America. In spite of those positive developments, however, the persistent and worsening carnage and mayhem caused by terrorism still seem to lurk everywhere. Nowhere and nobody seems to be safe any longer. Whatever its cause, terrorism cannot be justified or rationalized in terms of a solution, since its effects do not discriminate between the perceived guilty and the innocent. That is why the world must stand together and try to eradicate it. African nations are now showing a strong determination to end the conflicts that have bedevilled the continent for decades. The setting-up of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) and the African Peace and Security Council under the auspices of the African Union is a demonstration of that resolve. Through NEPAD, Africa has identified the factors of good governance, the culture of democracy, the rule of law, free and fair elections, sound economic management of States, and State support for and partnership with the private sector as critical for sustained socio-economic development, peace and stability. For accelerated economic growth, Africa is generally agreed that the way forward is through partnerships among the African nations and with the rest of the world to create economies of scale and to attract both domestic and foreign direct investment. That will create opportunities for employment, the transfer of know-how and markets to combat the debilitating poverty. The world community must support Africa in those ground-breaking efforts. Africa believes that the realization of the agenda under the Doha Round could also bring significant benefits to developing countries. But alongside those efforts must come support for the call for greatly enhanced economic aid from the United Nations and the developed world for the struggling third world to nurture itself into the fitness required for the competitiveness that the global market demands. The same rationale must back the various initiatives aimed at providing assistance for the prevention, care and treatment of HIV/AIDS, malaria and other infectious diseases. It is only by containing those diseases that the continent’s development can be kept on course. The empowerment of women and children is moving apace on the continent. In that regard, Ghana has established a Ministry of Women’s and Children’s Affairs to spearhead policies and programmes to promote gender equality and enhance the status of women. This is a historic moment of truth for the international community. The destiny of the United 18 Nations and humankind is in our hands. We have the choice to save it, and the time to act is now.It is a pleasure for me to express on behalf of my delegation warm congratulations on the outstanding election, of the President to lead the sixtieth regular session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. I see the selection as a tribute to his excellent qualities as a diplomat without equal and recognition of the tireless commitment of Sweden to the noble causes of our Organization. He may be sure that in the discharge of his lofty mission, Senegal’s support is completely understood. Allow me to take this opportunity to say how much we have appreciated the commitment and the flair that his predecessor, my friend and brother, His Excellency the Minister of State Jean Ping, discharged his mandate at a decisive point in the existence of the United Nations. Whatever the results of the negotiations under way for a just and in-depth reform of our Organization, our brother Jean Ping will have given the most of himself, and we all owe him gratitude and respect. I should also like here to pay tribute to the unfailing dedication to the causes of our Organization displayed by His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, a dedication that was recently reflected in his excellent and timely initiative to submit to Member States a substantial number of proposals aimed at ensuring the rebirth of the United Nations and making it possible to envisage a new dawn for multilateralism. This year’s general debate has been symbolic and strategic in nature in that it is being held following the High-level Plenary Meeting, which mobilized all of our leaders and was an expression of the will of all of the Member States to make the necessary adjustments for a revitalization of the founding values of the United Nations and for a better consideration of the aspiration of all peoples. This is a crucial meeting carrying as it does within it the great hopes of the disadvantaged populations of the world, victims of endemic underdevelopment. The major results of this summit, in my view, are an expression of the faith of the international community in spirit and solidarity, interdependence and international cooperation, the raison d’être of the United Nations, at a time when our societies are faced with an increasingly complex international environment characterized by a globalization that is still not being clearly defined. Although there are signposts, the road before us is still long, and so great is the lag behind of many developing countries, particularly on the African continent, in achieving the Millennium Development 13 Goals, that billions of men and women around the world should be helped to free themselves from difficulties and from exclusion and despair so they can fully enjoy the dividends of peace and security. This is why my delegation strongly hopes that this act of faith will be translated into tangible actions and into results that are palpable for all. This is precisely what the Secretary-General invited us to consider in highlighting in his report of last March the indivisibility of the three pillars of development, security and human rights. Therefore, we must all act. For us, a developing country, acting means implementing strategies that will be beneficial for development, supported by clear- sighted policies of good governance and the rule of law including all sectors of society. And for the developed countries this means scrupulously honouring the commitments undertaken in terms of resolving the question of debt, promoting a just and equitable trade and improving the volume and quality of aid mechanisms. By the historic decisions that it is calling for, the agenda established by the summit confirms eloquently the firmness of the commitments of heads of State and Government to focus on fighting for development, whose ultimate goal is the harmonious integration of developing countries in the globalization process. However, the heavy interdependence of the world economy and the demands for peace naturally call for a real global partnership, which includes a sharing of responsibilities and takes into account the specific needs of developing countries. Nevertheless, the desired increase in assistance to developing countries is not a sufficient condition for them to have lasting inclusion in the globalization process. We also need to rationalize this assistance and to improve the delivery mechanisms. Indeed, despite the recent measures of debt cancellation for certain African countries and the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative, the debt burden continues to hamper any improvement in the economies of developing countries, which now find themselves in perpetual dependence on donors. Clearly, Africa is falling further and further behind the objectives of the Millennium Development Goals and will continue to do so if its debt burden is not drastically alleviated. Since the mechanisms planned for bringing the continent out of debt have not yet borne fruit, we should, apart from the partial measures which we should welcome, envisage bolder and more durable solutions. Based on this concern, the African ministers of finance met to discuss the strategy for debt reduction in Africa in May of this year in Dakar, under the aegis of the African Union. This was in preparation for a conference during which the President of the Republic of Senegal, His Excellency Abdoulaye Wade, proposed to the African Union that it conduct an “x-ray” of African debt. The economic recovery of the developing countries is all the more delayed in that they continue, helplessly, to be buffeted by an unfair and unbalanced world trade environment due to protectionist policies and export subsidies which distort the whole idea of competitiveness and divert trade from the objective of development. This contributes to making producers in the poor countries more vulnerable and explains the high hopes that we place in the next World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference in Hong Kong in order to conclude the Doha cycle for development and design a multilateral trade system that is non- discriminatory and equitable for all. We welcome the particular attention being given increasingly to dealing with the specific needs of Africa in the international development agenda. Unfortunately, we cannot fail to deplore the fact that, paradoxically, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), adopted by this Assembly, continues to suffer from a deficit in implementation due partly to internal inertia and to slow multilateral support, particularly in terms of financial disbursements. I would like here once again to make a serious appeal to States and to the agencies of the United Nations system, including the Bretton Woods institutions, to make concrete their commitments to help Africa implement NEPAD — this ambitious programme of development. One of the priority sectors of this programme remains that of information and communication technology. In this respect I should like to welcome the creation — following the first phase of the World Summit on the Information Society — of a digital solidarity fund. This Fund, a proposal of President Wade, rapidly became an initiative of the African Union and was adopted in March 2005 by the 14 international community in Geneva. It is aimed at helping the countries of the South to bridge their digital divide with the North and to promote sustainable development. I should like here to repeat Senegal’s invitation to States, local groups, heads of companies and civil society to contribute in cash and in kind to this fund. The many initiatives to be taken in the next few weeks and months should not let us lose sight of the battle that we must wage at the worldwide, regional and national levels to defeat pandemics of infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and polio, which are decimating our populations. As regards HIV/AIDS, the Government of Senegal, which devotes more than one-tenth of its budget to health, will continue through bold actions based on information, education, awareness campaigns, prevention and subsidies to fight pandemics tirelessly. However, the encouraging results achieved by several countries, including Senegal, which has managed to keep the prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS at one of the lowest levels in the continent, cannot be consolidated without substantial and consistent support from international partners. Allow me to remind the General Assembly of the good news announced just a few weeks ago of the prevalence rate in my country falling from 1.7 per cent to 0.7 per cent. I would also like to invite the international community to support Africa in its fight against drepanocytosis — otherwise known as sickle cell anaemia — which has become a public health problem in several countries. This disease, apart from the suffering that it inflicts on the populations, is an obstacle to development in that it makes sufferers unable to work. For that reason the Summit of Heads of State and Government of the African Union, held in Sirte from 2 to 5 July, adopted a decision supporting the inclusion of genetic drepanocytosis on the list of priorities for public health. I would thus invite the Assembly to join this battle against drepanocytosis. Equally vital is the willingness of our external partners to commit themselves with Africa to finding a solution to the situation of its agriculture, which continues to suffer from an environment that is increasingly hostile to the flourishing of design capacities and to transfers of technology central to their development. This is the thrust of the initiative of the Dakar Agricultural Forum, launched by President Wade, the first meeting of which was held in February 2005 in Dakar on the topic “The world agricultural divide: opening up prospects for agricultural areas in development”. This Forum was an opportunity for a productive exchange of views and ideas among officials in the sector, representatives of professional organizations, non-governmental organizations, multinational companies, scientists and academics from all continents. The Forum considered the possibilities of partnerships in order to reduce the agricultural divide between North and South by using science and the transfer of technology, and discussed successful agricultural experiments submitted and presented at Dakar by experts from several countries. By initiating this project in Dakar, the Government of Senegal sought to stimulate thought on an original concept of development, taking into account the political, technical and sociological constraints peculiar to the countries of the South. Another challenge that has a negative impact on agriculture is desertification, which affects nearly one third of the African continent. There was a meeting of experts from more than 30 countries in Dakar from 26 to 29 July to discuss this problem. That meeting was held on the initiative of President Wade, in accordance with a mandate from his African peers, to consider developing the Sahara and its boundaries in the Sahel. As President Wade said, it is a question of “having a good, hard look at the Sahara” and thinking about the creation of a High Authority of the Sahara based on the American model of the Tennessee Valley Authority, which was a successful example of integrated development. We should like here to invite the international community, which decided to proclaim 2006 as the International Year of Deserts and Desertification, to participate in this important work of constructing what has been called by President Wade and his brother and friend, President Olusegun Obasanjo, the “Great Green Wall of Africa”, to slow the advance of the desert. As President Wade has said, “Either the desert or the human being — one will have to disappear.” We hope that it will be the desert. Certainly, the struggle to promote development should go hand in hand with another fight, that for a world where peace, security and the scrupulous respect of human rights and individual freedoms reigns. This is 15 why my country fully supports the important conclusions of the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting, relating in particular to the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly, the restructuring of the Security Council, the creation of a Peacebuilding Commission and of a Human Rights Council, and also the adoption of the fundamental principle of the responsibility to protect. From this rostrum, the President of Senegal, on the question of the expansion of the Security Council, recently made a strong appeal that, first, the historic injustice done to Africa — the only region of the world missing from the group of permanent members of the Security Council — be redressed. Certainly, our continent would like at the end of the process to receive two permanent seats in the Council, two thirds of whose agenda, unfortunately, is devoted to Africa. However, the proposal of Senegal — a country that defends the spirit of compromise with other interest groups — to put Africa at the beginning and at the end of the expansion of the Security Council, deserves the attention of the entire international community. There is no doubt that the full implementation of the conclusions of the High-level Plenary Meeting will make it possible for our Organization to connect better to the realities of this new century. However, the fine prospects that have been opened up by the Meeting should not make us forget the serious impact of the painful situations to which our world has been a helpless observer for many years. I would just mention three such situations: the disturbing deadlock in negotiations in the area of disarmament, in particular nuclear disarmament; terrorism; and the bogging down and lack of headway in the peace process in the Middle East. It is not yet too late for the “argument of power” — and nuclear power, which I have just set out here — to yield to the “power of argument” of shared peace, so that weapons of mass destruction — nuclear, chemical or biological — can be definitively banned. As regards terrorism, the recent attacks on London and on Sharm el-Sheikh are painful reminders of the persistence of an evil that can only be eliminated through determined and decisive mobilization by the international community. This response is all the more timely since the terrorist hydra attacks the sanctity of life, defies all reason and undermines the foundations of the rights and freedoms of the individual. It is the view of Senegal that, quite frankly, there is no cause sufficiently just or sufficiently good to justify the use of terrorism and the massacre of women, children and innocent civilians. Last but not least, the Middle East continues to send us daily images of a seemingly endless tragedy for the Palestinian people. We note the reluctance of the occupying Power, Israel, to respect the spirit and the letter of the road map, which has been seen in the recent settlements established in “Greater Jerusalem”, accompanied by destruction of houses belonging to Palestinians and the refusal to give them authorization to reunite their families. And we see it once again in the Israeli plan to link East Jerusalem with the settlement of Ma’aleh Adumim in the West Bank. The international community must redouble its efforts and vigilance to put an end to the harsh actions against the Palestinians including the construction of the separation wall and the settlements, and take measures to enable both parties to work to conclude rapidly a mutually advantageous peace. In advocating justice, it seems inconceivable that the Republic of China on Taiwan, with its 23 million inhabitants and its impressive economic dynamism, should be kept out of the United Nations. Thus, we express the hope that, finally, peace will reign in all regions of the world, particularly in Africa. This is why we welcome the fact that countries such as Guinea-Bissau, Sierra Leone, Liberia or Burundi, despite conflict, are emerging from crisis and embarking on the path to reconciliation and reconstruction. I would like to add just one last word on Guinea- Bissau. For us, Guinea-Bissau has met its commitments as regards the international community, proving its maturity and its attachment and dedication to peace. It is thus for the international community to accompany this process now under way in Bissau. To that end, the meeting of donors planned for November should be held without conditions and should lead to substantial material and financial support so as to help the people of Guinea-Bissau continue to take charge of their destiny. I should like to conclude on this point and pay warm tribute to Mr. Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu, Secretary General of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, for his restructuring efforts to make the OIC a modern 16 and effective organization more capable of strengthening cooperation within the Islamic Oumah and contributing to the fight against underdevelopment. In this noble fight, my country, Senegal, remains more determined than ever to work with all of its partners in order to bring about a fairer, more peaceful and more prosperous world.We Austrians unfailingly keep the United Nations in high esteem. Let me try to explain why. Austria became a Member of the United Nations in December 1955. That was only half a year after our full sovereignty had been restored through a treaty concluded with the United States, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom and France, called the Austrian State Treaty. Fifty years ago, becoming part of the family of nations was a powerful motive for us. We could build on your trust. We could rely on your help. We later solved complex problems such as the question of Südtirol with you, our partners in the United Nations. And we have since been eager to return to others in need the help extended to us. More than anything else, it is our own experience that nurtures our confidence in the potential of the United Nations as a promoter of peace and a beacon of hope for so many who face the dire challenges and threats to our societies — be they armed conflict or hunger, terrorism or environmental disaster. We need the United Nations to be relevant, responsive and reliable — today and in the years to come. The reform process initiated by Secretary- General Kofi Annan and reflected in the World Summit Outcome document will further enhance that potential. We may not have achieved all we were striving for, but let us not disregard the progress made, for it will — if acted upon — make a difference to people in need of our support, in need of our protection. Promoting peace is the United Nations very raison d’être. Since Austria joined the United Nations, some 54,000 Austrian peacekeepers have participated in more than 50 missions all over the world. Currently, 1,200 of them are deployed in missions from Kosovo to the Golan Heights and from Afghanistan to Aceh and the Sudan. It is also in the light of their practical experience that we welcome the new peacebuilding commission. It will provide specific support to people having to cope with the manifold challenges along the path from war to real peace. I wish to say one word on women in that context. Creating confidence in post-conflict societies requires the active participation and deliberate involvement of women. They must become key partners in our peacekeeping and peacebuilding efforts. 2 The European Union, as the major donor to post-conflict reconstruction and development, will substantially contribute to the peacebuilding commission’s work. It should therefore have a place in the commission. For us and many people all over the world, the most serious failure of the present reform effort was the lack of agreement on effective and verifiable measures against nuclear proliferation and for disarmament. We must strengthen the multilateral verification mechanisms and enable the International Atomic Energy Agency to make best use of its capacity. We must not abandon our efforts to find common ground on those most challenging tasks. In this vulnerable world, we need to foster trust between communities and peoples and help to identify shared values. Austria thus strongly supports every form of dialogue among civilizations, religions and cultures. In particular, we need to reach out to the Islamic world, both internationally and inside our societies. As a concrete contribution, Austria will host an international conference in November on Islam in a pluralistic world. Anywhere in the world, individuals will be able to live and unfold in larger freedom only when their fundamental needs of development, security and human rights are met. We need to address those requirements in a comprehensive and integrated manner. We are grateful to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who so remarkably raised awareness on that matter. The Millennium Development Goals contain specific promises of solidarity. Austria therefore welcomes our continued common commitments, in particular to poverty eradication and the global partnership for sustainable development. In contributing to the funding effort, we will raise our official development assistance to 0.51 per cent of our gross national income by 2010. Promoting human security is an ever more demanding task. Our decisions on the “responsibility to protect” are a courageous step forward in international relations, but more importantly, they are an offer of hope to those most vulnerable to genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. We must not let them down. In the words of Simon Wiesenthal, who sadly passed away last night in Vienna, what connects 2,000 years of genocide is “too much power in too few hands”. Ten years ago, at this Assembly, Simon Wiesenthal proposed to organize a worldwide conference aimed at reducing hate. He said that “technology without hatred can be so beneficial for mankind, but in conjunction with hatred it leads to disaster” (A/50/PV.66, p. 9). Reality has since illustrated the profound relevance of that proposal. In our globalized world, the concept of neighbourhood has taken on a new meaning. In the eye of disaster, we are all neighbours, no matter how far or close. As the tsunami and recent hurricanes have taught us, there is an emerging sense of shared destiny and responsibility no longer limited to geographical vicinity. Let me on this occasion express our gratitude to all those private donors who set a mark of living solidarity. Austria’s clear commitment to effective multilateralism is at the very heart of our work in the European Union and the United Nations. It is in that spirit that we are a candidate for Security Council membership in 2009-2010. Promoting the rule of law is the key to an environment of trust within our societies. It enables individuals to enjoy a self-determined life. For many, the rule of law is synonymous with normality and predictability in their private and professional lives. We therefore welcome the proposed establishment of a rule of law assistance unit in the Secretariat to advise States in their efforts towards the rule of law. One of the main achievements of the summit was the decision to establish a human rights council, even if the concrete set-up remains to be defined. In our view, we need a standing body with the ability to address urgent human rights issues swiftly and efficiently. That is no mere management question. What is at stake is the new Council’s capacity to make a difference for those in need. It is now crucial that negotiations start without delay in order to seize the momentum of the reform. Human rights are also a matter of education. In the framework of the Human Security Network, Austria has therefore developed a human rights manual that has been translated into all United Nations languages. It is used in training programmes in Austria and abroad and we encourage our partners to make use of that instrument. Strengthening human rights and the rule of law will increase security. That is true for societies at large, but it is also true for the smallest communities and 3 individual households. Full respect for the rights of women and children is therefore indispensable in the world of increased justice and equality we strive for. Too many women are victims of violence. We therefore welcome the study currently being prepared by the Secretary-General on all forms of violence against women. Much remains to be done. The Doha Development Round has to promote improved market access. In our efforts to protect the environment, we have to enhance the use of renewable energy and reduce the emission of greenhouse gases. We also need to finalize the comprehensive anti-terrorism convention, as agreed at the world summit, and adopt and implement the counter- terrorism strategy proposed by the Secretary-General. Real freedom is within reach if we, through the United Nations, join our forces to promote peace, security and justice — not only freedom from want and freedom from fear, but eventually freedom to live in dignity for both women and men across the globe.It is a distinct honour for me today to address the sixtieth General Assembly of the United Nations. At the outset, please allow me on behalf of the Government and people of the Republic of Suriname to extend sincere felicitations to the President on his election to preside over this important session. I would like to pledge my delegation’s full support and cooperation in the tasks that lie ahead of us in this session. My delegation would also like to express its gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, President of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, for his unwavering efforts in steering the work of the fifty-ninth session. We wish him well in his future endeavours. We continue to render our support to Secretary- General Kofi Annan, especially for his leadership in the process of restructuring the United Nations. We are gathered here, in the wake of the High- level Plenary Meeting, in which world leaders adopted some measures to advance the cause of development, human rights and security and the much-needed reform of this world Organization. The task before us is not an easy one. We need to redouble our efforts in implementing the ambitious goals we have set to create a safer and more prosperous world for ourselves and generations to come. Although the world community made some modest progress towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals, we have to acknowledge that we are far from reaching the global commitments made by world leaders at the dawn of the new millennium to advance economic and social development for the world’s poor. The Government of Suriname remains committed to achieving the Millennium Development Goals because we strongly believe that sustainable development is crucial for the achievement of international peace and security. 28 While we acknowledge our primary responsibility in the development process, we would like to bring to mind the commitments made in Monterrey of establishing a global partnership to advance the development agenda. A substantial increase in financial resources, to be provided on a more predictable basis and free of conditionalities, is needed for this matter. We commend the various initiatives that have been launched so far, and we would like to call on our developed partners to continue rendering their support to the efforts of developing countries. Trade can play an important role in promoting economic growth and development, and in that regard we reiterate our position for a trading system that is universal, rule-based, non-discriminatory, open and equitable. We furthermore expect that the upcoming multilateral round of trade negotiations will fully take into account the needs of developing countries. We would like to note the laudable initiatives of several developed countries for facilitating market access for the least developed countries. However, for many middle-income countries, like Suriname, who are called upon to diversify their economies, measures have yet to be taken to facilitate their market access for goods and services into the markets of the developed countries. Sixty years ago, in the aftermath of the Second World War, world leaders vowed to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war and thus came together and established the United Nations. Faced with both old and new challenges to international peace and security, the international community should more than ever be determined to live up to that crucial promise. The spread of infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, the indiscriminate effect of the forces of nature thereby causing widespread despair and destruction, the uncontrolled proliferation of small arms and light weapons, just to name a few, are testimony of the transnational nature of contemporary challenges the world is facing today. We therefore need an effective system of international cooperation to collectively deal with both old and new threats to international peace and security. It is imperative to redress the major setbacks in nuclear disarmament and arms control. We will have failed future generations if we cannot even reach agreement on the general principles governing those important issues. We cannot but agree with the Secretary-General when he once stated, “There is nothing small or light about the consequences of the uncontrolled spread and misuse of small arms and light weapons” (A/58/138, p. 4). In Suriname, as is the case for many countries in the Caribbean region, this phenomenon is associated with drug trafficking and other cross-border criminal activity. In this regard we would like to pledge our support to the ongoing efforts in the United Nations to address this critical issue that threatens the economic and social fabric of our society. My Government strongly condemns all acts of terrorism committed by whomever, wherever and for whatever purposes. With the growing interdependence in the world, terrorism constitutes a grave danger for rich, poor, large and small countries alike. We would however like to bring to mind that the fight against terrorism should, at all times, take place in accordance with international law and with respect for human rights, tolerance and the peaceful coexistence of people. The fight against terrorism must address its root causes. Suriname, being a multi-ethnic, multireligious and multicultural society, believes that increased tolerance and dialogue could make a positive contribution to the goal of increased security. We therefore continue to support the dialogue among civilizations and remain convinced that a culture of peace can be significantly enhanced through this dialogue in order to promote mutual understanding, respect and tolerance among regions, cultures and peoples. Respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms remains of great importance to the Government of Suriname. The creation of a Human Rights Council, as was agreed to in the outcome document, should not only result in a renaming of the Commission on Human Rights; we have the daunting task ahead of us of restoring credibility to the human rights machinery by addressing the shortfalls of the Commission on Human Rights and ensuring that the Human Rights Council becomes a more effective and objective organ. The United Nations should resolve to come to the rescue of people confronted with genocide, ethnic 29 cleansing and crimes against humanity. We must continue to discuss the framework to be associated with this difficult task. But more importantly, the United Nations, through its Charter provisions, should find ways and means geared towards preventing these atrocities from reoccurring. The international community has some time ago expressed the need for a more effective and efficient Organization that would be better able to address the many challenges our world is facing today and make it more responsive to the aspirations of the world’s people. Suriname continues to believe in the values of the United Nations as the supreme multilateral institution and supports the efforts of strengthening the Organization through reform. More than ever, good intentions must give rise to concrete achievements. We must translate commitments into action. We owe it to the many people living in extreme poverty who do not have access to safe drinking water and do not have proper health care. Achieving such a global society requires the involvement, determination and commitment of all actors — State and non-State — as well as coordinated and comprehensive actions by all such actors in the global fight against poverty and injustice. Our shared objectives require more than a reaffirmation of the importance of the Millennium Development Goals and the availability of financial resources. It requires understanding between developed and developing countries. It requires political will, which is a condition sine qua non in our efforts to achieve our global commitments. I am convinced that the recently concluded high- level gathering of world leaders generated the renewed political commitment to further the cause of global partnership between the developing and developed countries to promote development and continue the fight against poverty and hunger. In conclusion, let me remark that we have to act now. We cannot build a world of peace and security without economic and social development and without respect for human rights.Taking the floor for the first time before this Assembly, it is my genuine pleasure warmly to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. Your election was a personal honour to you and a recognition of the diplomatic skills that we all acknowledge. It also enhances the prestigious image of your country. Please rest assured of the support of the Union of the Comoros as you complete your exalted mission. Your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, deserves our full admiration and congratulations on the effectiveness and devotion with which he led the work of the fifty-ninth session. I also wish to reiterate our confidence in Secretary-General Kofi Annan and above all to express our gratitude for his tireless commitment to establishing a more just, peaceful and prosperous world. Our world faces challenges and threats that jeopardize our security and prosperity. And yet, we have also seen unprecedented technological and scientific development. That disparity highlights the stark reversal of our human values and of the basic principles of promoting peace, respect for human dignity and international solidarity. Is there any need to list the modern scourges that have engulfed every region of the world: extremism, terrorism, ethnic cleansing and others? In addition to that stark assessment of the state of the world — a result of the failure of the human conscience — we have also been struck by natural disasters, including floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, tidal waves and, sadly, many others. To cite just the most recent example, Hurricane Katrina, which devastated Louisiana, is a striking illustration of that phenomenon. Through me, the Government of the Union of the Comoros offers its deep sympathy to the United States of America authorities and the entire American people. Like the victims of natural disasters, the victims of violence and human injustice have no recourse other than this Organization, entrusted with the most noble mission of defending and preserving their dignity. But the Organization will need a new impetus to spur international action worthy of the expectations of our peoples. We must therefore redefine our vision of world security. We must keep the human being at the heart of our considerations and take every parameter of human security into account. Indeed, there can be no lasting peace while poverty, disease, despair, war and oppression persist. In a word, there can be no peace if we are insecure about our daily lives and the future. There is an ineluctable link between peace and the development to which we all aspire. We must therefore set ourselves a code of good behaviour and create a life in which the law reigns supreme. We must reinvigorate and re-energize the United Nations in order effectively to prepare it to face the problems of the modern world. At the same time, the composition of its bodies should be as representative as possible so as to enshrine and embody its universality and safeguard the sovereign equality of States, especially the smallest among them. As the supreme global institution, the United Nations should also operate on the basis of rules and norms recognized and approved by all, which will strengthen its credibility. Only thus will we will truly be able to solve the problems of terrorism, addressing them at their roots, and express our sympathy for and solidarity with those who have devoted their entire lives to fighting exclusion and injustice. At this very moment, I have a deeply considered thought for all those who have fought for noble causes throughout the world. The brotherly people of Palestine offers a perfect illustration thereof. Indeed, the aspirations of the Palestinian people are those of a nation reclaiming its dignity and security. In the interests of all the peoples of the Middle East, the peace process must continue, because building and maintaining peace is essential to our world. It is critical that a Palestinian State be established and allowed to live in peace, security and stability with the State of Israel and its other neighbours. 19 My country welcomes Israel’s withdrawal from the Gaza Strip, a decisive step in the quest for a timely, just and equitable solution to that long drawn-out problem. We are convinced that this gesture augurs well for the region and peoples concerned. As for Iraq, adequate conditions must be established to promote genuine progress towards peace, which will guarantee the stability necessary to the country’s socio-economic development. The situation in Asia also deserves the focused attention of the international community. The stalemate in the issue of the Chinese province of Taiwan, to cite just one instance, is not conducive to the promotion of stability in that part of the world. That is why, in its concern for the ongoing prevalence of law in international relations, and in order to guarantee respect for the national unity of countries, the Union of the Comoros urges the General Assembly to heed the legitimate claims of the Government of the People’s Republic of China over the Chinese province of Taiwan. With regard to Africa, we welcome the imminent settlement of certain crises, including in the Republic of the Sudan, where current developments are opening the prospects for effective national reconciliation. The Government of the Union of the Comoros encourages the Sudanese parties to persevere along that path. As to other crises that remain unresolved, we urge the international community to play a lead role in finding solutions. Indeed, stability remains a paramount condition for the success of Africa’s economic development efforts through the New Partnership for Africa’s Development and other regional and international initiatives seeking the same goal. Likewise, those efforts will remain inconclusive so long as HIV/AIDS, malaria, drepanocytosis and other diseases continue to rage in our countries. Other threats include drought, famine, locust infestations, extreme poverty and the debt burden stifling the economies of our countries. We therefore commend the initiative of convening a summit to assess the Millennium Development Goals, which should allow for the adoption of new arrangements for the achievement of the Goals by 2015. Environmental problems affect all States and are a source of genuine concern to us all. Unbridled pollution, the destruction of the ozone layer, deforestation, rising sea levels — in a word, the ceaseless deterioration of the environment — require us all to heighten our awareness of those global threats. And yet, while such problems may affect any number of States, we should recall that some — the small island developing States in particular — have specific characteristics that must be taken into consideration and addressed with greater attention. The Union of the Comoros itself recently suffered a volcanic eruption that severely damaged our environment. Such continuous threats to our countries call for the timely establishment of mechanisms to prevent and manage natural disasters. We welcome regional initiatives, including those undertaken by the Indian Ocean Commission, to better manage such situations and we urge the international community also to provide us with its invaluable assistance. I take this opportunity to thank the Government of France, the United Nations Development Programme, and all other friendly countries and specialized agencies of the United Nations that have greatly helped us to grapple with and manage that disaster. I spoke earlier of the inequalities prevalent in our world. They are manifest at many levels, to be sure, but the socio-economic aspect is the most glaring. Long marginalized in world decision-making, our countries of the South continue to suffer the consequences of our economic fragility. The rules of the game in world trade exclude us de facto from the playing field. Moreover, the paucity of new information and communications technologies in the South is a striking reminder of the vast abyss in that field between our countries and those of the North. Debt continues to burden many countries of the South, despite the fact that, thanks to a sudden surge of generosity and, above all, responsibility on the part of the wealthy countries, some saw their situation revisited and improved by the cancellation of their debt. That only highlights the urgency of the need to assess the economic and financial situation of the countries of the South in order for them to be genuinely integrated into the dynamic of globalization. If the disparities in and slow pace of the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals in general are to be redressed, a world partnership is needed. In that context, special attention must be paid to the least privileged social strata, including by 20 providing access to financial services through the promotion of microfinancing and microcredit. Furthermore, we must address and objectively analyse the issue of debt. We must prioritize the cancellation of the public debt of the heavily indebted poor countries, the least developed countries, and the low- and medium-income developing countries. Finally, international action should promote a fair, regulated, open and non-discriminatory trading system, notably by facilitating the developing countries’ accession to the World Trade Organization. The United Nations is an irreplaceable forum. As the crucible of our warning cries and our hopes for a better world, it remains the perfect framework for discussing the world situation and for opening a window on the situation in each of our countries. With respect to the Union of the Comoros, I am pleased to announce from this rostrum that we have completed our establishment of new institutions, which are now operational. We thank everyone for their important contributions to that end. We now have the two-fold duty to consolidate the valuable achievements of national reconciliation and to promote our country’s socio-economic development. With our development partners, we are therefore striving to reinvigorate our cooperation and redirect it towards the well-being of our people. In the same vein, the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals is a priority of the Government of the Union of the Comoros. Furthermore, my country completed a staff- monitored programme of the International Monetary Fund in January 2005 and is working to streamline its public finances with a view to concluding a Facility for Poverty Reduction and Growth programme with the Bretton Woods institutions so as to mobilize the financial resources necessary to implementing its development priorities. In that respect, the Comoros authorities are also attempting to implement a recommendation from the international community to convene a donors conference on our behalf. I therefore have the pleasure of informing the Assembly that such a meeting, critical to my country’s economic and social future, will be held on 8 December in the Republic of Mauritius under the auspices of the African Union. On behalf of my country, I call on the international community to help us to ensure the gathering’s success. I also take this pleasant opportunity warmly to thank the Republic of Mauritius for its generous offer to host that important conference. In particular, we thank Mauritian Prime Minister Navinchandra Ramgoolam for his readiness to co-preside the conference. In the same vein, on behalf of the Government of the Union of the Comoros, I pay a well-deserved tribute to the Republic of South Africa for its ongoing support for the Comoros and for having successfully coordinated the efforts of the African Union and of regional countries to achieve national reconciliation in my country. The people of the Comoros sincerely and happily welcome the tireless interest of Mr. Thabo Mbeki, President of the Republic of South Africa, in the future of our country and his willingness to co- preside the donors conference. I cannot conclude without raising here the issue of the Comorian island of Mayotte. Following a series of consultations held between French and Comorian authorities in their common concern to find a solution that will preserve the friendship and cooperation between the two countries, safeguard the interests of both States and satisfy the aspirations of the entire population of the archipelago, a new process has been launched. It will promote direct dialogue between the two parties with a view to finding a solution that protects everyone’s interests in accordance with the law. The Comorian Government has invested a great deal of hope in the new dynamic. It believes that it can trust the French Republic to strive for a joint and honourable resolution of the situation. I therefore take this opportunity to reaffirm my sincere thanks to all the friends of the Comoros, who have never failed in their support, their encouragement and their solidarity with my country in the quest for a solution to the issue in line with the law. I also wish to assure them, on behalf of the Government of the Union of the Comoros, that they will always be kept up-to-date on developments in the issue and, whenever necessary, involved in the process. Working for peace means fighting all that fuels extremism and every source of frustration. Working for peace also means investing all necessary resources in development, without which humankind has no dignity. The health of our world depends on our Organization. 21 Let us strive for its renewal, for more peace, for happiness and for greater human dignity. Let us strive for equal opportunity for all.May I begin by extending my congratulations on your election as the President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I am confident that under your guidance this session will achieve fruitful results. I also wish to take this opportunity to express my sincere respects to Mr. Jean Ping, President at the previous session, and to the Secretary-General. This year marks the sixtieth anniversary of the end of the world war against fascism and the founding of the United Nations. Just a few days ago in this Hall, world leaders solemnly adopted the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting (resolution 60/1). Now, it falls to us to fulfil the important and pressing task of working towards a harmonious world of lasting peace and common prosperity by translating that document into action and turning fine words into reality. This session should serve to promote peace, harmony and common development. We want peaceful development. Progress of mankind needs a peaceful environment. Stability and security of one country cannot be built on the turbulence or crisis of another. Only a new security concept featuring mutual trust, mutual benefit, equality and coordination will enable us to develop in peace and safeguard peace through development. We want harmonious development. To build a better future is the long-cherished dream of mankind. Any development strategy should be guided by a long- term and holistic perspective instead of immediate and sectoral benefits. Therefore, we should work together for more democratic and law-based international relations and a harmonious environment in which countries respect one another, treat one another as equals, and in which different cultures can emulate and interchange with each other. 18 We want common development. No model of development that benefits only a few countries or a small group of people is acceptable or sustainable. Countries should cooperate with each other more closely so that economic globalization may yield successful results, benefit-sharing and common prosperity. This session should serve to push forward reforms of the United Nations and strengthen its role. Having weathered 60 years of vicissitudes, the United Nations needs multifaceted and multidimensional reforms so as to be able to make a greater contribution to mankind’s noble cause of peace and development. The position of the United Nations as the core of the world collective security mechanism must be strengthened so that it can perform its duty of safeguarding peace in a more effective way. China supports the efforts to enhance the Organization’s capacity on conflict prevention, mediation and good offices. We also favour a greater role by the Secretary- General in this respect and the fostering of a preventive culture. We support the efforts to strengthen United Nations peacekeeping operations, particularly with regard to rapid deployment capacity and strategic preparedness, as well as the capacity to fully mobilize regional organizations and their resources under the leadership of the Security Council. China supports the establishment of a Peacebuilding Commission to more effectively coordinate United Nations efforts in the areas of peacekeeping, post-conflict rehabilitation and development. In that respect, the Economic and Social Council and other development assistance agencies should have an important role to play in the Commission. It has been our consistent position to oppose the use or threat of force in international relations. We do not support the reinterpretation or revision of the provisions in the Charter of the United Nations related to the right of self-defence. Should an occasion arise that calls for the use of force, it is the Security Council that should make sound judgements and take prudent decisions as to the merits of the situation. The international community should continue to press ahead with the international process on arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation; safeguard and enhance the authority and effectiveness of existing multilateral treaties; give full scope to the role of the United Nations and other international organizations in the area of non-proliferation; and seek solutions to related issues by political and diplomatic means. The United Nations should be able to cope more effectively with non-traditional security threats. We welcome the comprehensive strategy on counter- terrorism proposed by the Secretary-General, and we hope to see the early conclusion of a comprehensive convention on international terrorism, taking full account of the concerns of various parties, particularly developing countries. In the effort to reduce and prevent large-scale humanitarian crises, the international community should strictly observe the United Nations Charter, respect the opinions of the countries or organizations concerned and, with the Security Council’s authorization, explore, to the greatest extent possible, peaceful settlement within the United Nations framework. We oppose any rash intervention carried out on the basis of the claim that a nation is unable or unwilling to protect its own citizens. Development should be a main focus of United Nations reform. Although China is a low-income developing country, it is prepared to contribute as much as it can to international cooperation for development. As President Hu Jintao announced at the summit, China will take substantive steps in five areas. We will join hands with all Members to advance reforms in the area of development so as to facilitate the resolution of development issues. The United Nations should put in place a fair and rational Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) review framework to assess progress made in various countries and to monitor follow-up of international cooperation and aid commitments. We support the coordinating role of the Economic and Social Council in development-related areas. The Doha Round should embody development in its focus, paying more attention and taking actions to address the concerns of developing countries, particularly with regard to agricultural produce and special and differential treatment. China has decided to grant zero-tariff treatment to some commodities from 39 least developed countries, which will cover the majority of China’s imports from those countries. 19 China is in favour of incorporating the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS and the building of the public health sector into the development programmes and activities of various countries and of the United Nations. We will be submitting at the current session a draft resolution on strengthening global capacity- building in the area of public health. In the next three years, we plan to provide more aid and medicine to developing countries for preventing and treating malaria and other communicable diseases and to help them establish and reform their public health systems and train medical personnel. The international community — particularly developed countries — should take substantive steps to help developing countries break the vicious circle of debt. Such steps include substantial debt reduction and the streamlining of debt relief procedures and requirements. In the next two years, China will write off or otherwise cancel the overdue portions, as of the end of 2004, of interest-free or low-interest Government loans owed by all heavily indebted poor countries having diplomatic relations with China. We call on the United Nations to give priority to helping developing countries to strengthen their capacity-building. China will help developing countries train 30,000 people for various professions in the next three years. My country also favours setting a timetable for developed countries to allocate 0.7 per cent of their gross national income to official development assistance. New fund-raising methods should be explored so as to put more funds into development. China pledges $10 billion in concessional loans to developing countries in the next three years within the framework of South-South cooperation. The Charter of the United Nations grants the Security Council the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. A highly efficient, responsible and representative Council serves the long-term interests of the United Nations and the common interests of all its Member States. China supports reform of the Security Council aimed at strengthening its authority and efficiency and improving its working methods. The representation of developing countries, particularly African countries, should be increased so that small and medium-sized countries would have more say in the Council’s decision-making. No reform proposal can work that addresses only the concerns of a few countries, disregarding the interests of the majority of countries, and treats developing countries in Africa and in other parts of the world unfairly. China supports the principle of cooperation based on democratic consultation. As reform will affect the future of the United Nations and the interests of various parties, there should be no artificial timeframes or attempts to force decisions through a vote. Instead, Member States should seek consensus through dialogue and consultation and in accordance with the principle of democratic international relations. China embraces the spirit of unity and cooperation. The United Nations family has 191 Members. Unity is the source of strength. We want unity, not division. As long as Member States respect one another’s interests, accommodate one another’s concerns and show pragmatism and flexibility, we will be able to find a reform path that is acceptable to all. The current session should focus on Africa. African countries make up a quarter of the United Nations membership, and their populations account for 13 per cent of the world’s total population. If there is no stability in Africa, the world will have no peace. If Africa remains poor, there will be no development for the world. The outcome document of the summit calls for efforts to meet the special needs of Africa. I believe that that is correct and necessary. Despite the gratifying progress made in Africa in recent years, conflicts in some of its regions have persisted. The Security Council should pay special attention to African problems and give them priority on its agenda. That means not only devoting more Council meetings to African issues, but also, and more important, taking concrete actions to heed Africa’s voice, respect its views and accommodate its concerns. China applauds the mediation and good offices of the African Union and other regional organizations aimed at conflict settlement in Africa. We support close cooperation between the Security Council and those organizations by providing them with funds, logistics and technical assistance to strengthen their peacekeeping and post-conflict reconstruction capacities. African countries face difficulties in the area of development, particularly in attaining the MDGs. More 20 than 300 million people are still living under the poverty line. One third of all children are malnourished. More than 30 million people are suffering from HIV/AIDS. With less than 2 per cent of the world’s economic aggregate, Africa is weighed down by debts amounting to $300 billion. All of that poses a challenge to the conscience of mankind. The international community should reach a global consensus on African development and help the continent to achieve the MDGs on schedule by implementing the New Partnership for Africa’s Development. Those who provide assistance must do so in all sincerity and respect the right of African countries to make their own decisions. Assistance must also have a clear aim: to meet the basic and long-term needs of the African people. Assistance is by no means charity or a gift; it is a response to the call for mutual benefit and common development. Furthermore, it is our moral duty to help the needy and redress injustices. In the twentieth century, Africa shook off colonial rule and achieved national liberation. That was an epoch-making event. The twenty-first century will bring peace and development to Africa — it is historically inevitable. The Chinese people will continue to stand beside their African brothers and sisters on that journey of historic significance. The recently concluded Six-Party Talks in Beijing on the Korean Peninsula nuclear issue have reached an important consensus and issued a joint declaration, marking an important step forward in the Talks and a crystallization of the political will and diligence of the parties concerned. It also reflects the common aspiration of the international community. Because it was so hard-won, this result needs to be especially prized. We hope that the parties will continue to work together to promote further progress in the Six-Party Talks, resolve the nuclear issue on the Peninsula through dialogue and by peaceful means, ensure lasting peace and stability in the region and realize its common goals for development and prosperity. The Chinese Government will continue to make a positive contribution in that regard.A small boy on the run remains vividly in my mind today, a boy with eyes that have seen more horror than most of us in this Hall have ever seen, a boy whom all of us have failed. There are thousands of children like him in Darfur. I met him when I visited areas of fear, suffering, hunger and senseless violence. We owe that boy in Darfur more: better performance; a stronger connection between our declarations and our actions. We have tools to prevent armed conflicts. We have made many commitments to end oppression, radically reduce poverty and protect our environment. We have cures for many of the diseases that continue to kill. The challenge before us is to use instruments for peace, development and human rights, and to transform our commitments into real action. Cooperation across borders is not just a good idea - it is a must. And for the truly global challenges, the United Nations is indispensable. Our joint commitment to the Charter of the United Nations is an excellent starting point But as new threats emerge and the world evolves, the United Nations must also adapt. We need a multilateralism that is effective, with institutions that have teeth and a strong political will to make them work. We need a multilateralism that is based on common principles, not on the lowest common denominator of the day. We need a rule-based international order, applicable to all. This is a crucial year for the United Nations. The Secretary-General has, with great courage and vision, led the way. The outcome of the summit sets the direction. This session of the General Assembly has been given the responsibility of following up on important decisions. We must together achieve real results in a number of areas. Let me highlight some of the main challenges. The first challenge is to make progress on the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Millions of people still suffer from extreme poverty. Important progress has been made towards the goal of eradicating poverty, but we need to do better. All developed countries should make timetables for reaching the target of 0.7 per cent of gross national income for international development assistance by the year 2015. Sweden will reach its one per cent target next year. Equally important is that all countries live up to the commitments on aid effectiveness, to our agreements from Monterrey and to our promises to find new ways of financing development. Better progress in preventing maternal and child mortality is vital for reaching many of the MDGs. We must renew our commitment of universal access to reproductive health care by 2015 and give more focus to sexual and reproductive health care and rights. Market access for goods and services must be substantially improved for poor countries. Trade- distorting subsidies need to be phased out. Sweden will continue to work for reduced agricultural subsidies and to press for speedy implementation of the development dimension of the Doha work programme. While the developed world can and should play a bigger part in order to reach the MDGs, the developing countries bear the critical responsibility for their own development. The importance for the sustainability of development efforts of good governance, well- 39 functioning democratic institutions and full respect for human rights and the rule of law cannot be underestimated. The second challenge is to halt climate change. Awareness of the connection between the way we live our lives, particularly in the industrialized world, and its effects on the long-term survival of our planet is today greater than ever. But action is still much too limited. It is deeply regrettable that no firm agreement on the way forward was reached at the summit. All parties to the Kyoto Protocol and to the United Nations Climate Change Convention must continue to implement their commitments. There is also a need to urgently initiate a process aimed at controlling climate change beyond the year 2012. The third challenge is to combat terrorism together. Terrorism has taken the lives of thousands of innocent people. One of our most urgent priorities must be to stop and prevent terrorism. It remains a threat to all of us. We need to address these threats together, with a broad strategy, and with respect for human rights. The outcome of the summit has given us a platform to build on. The United Nations should now take the lead in developing a comprehensive counter- terrorism strategy based on the Secretary-Generalís excellent work. We must also conclude a comprehensive convention on international terrorism, including a legal definition, during the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. The fourth challenge is to better promote human rights. Human rights are violated throughout the world, creating enormous suffering and affecting both security and development. Human rights must be mainstreamed in all United Nations work as a core task of the Organization. Sweden welcomes the decision to create a Human Rights Council. That Council will need a strong mandate to address any human rights situation, respond to urgent human rights violations and monitor compliance by all States with their human rights obligations. We must all join in efforts to establish an effective and legitimate Human Rights Council during the sixtieth session. The summit made a strong commitment to our common responsibility to protect. We must now act accordingly. The world has a responsibility to react in order to prevent genocide, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. The Security Council must be ready to take responsibility if and when a State cannot give its citizens the necessary protection. However, it is not just a question of acknowledging the obligation to act; it is also a question of being prepared to actually do so. The fifth challenge is to implement commitments on disarmament and non-proliferation. Weapons of mass destruction could kill all of us here, all at once. They could wipe out villages, cities and entire populations in seconds. Yet we still do not take the threat seriously enough. It should have been made clear at the summit that disarmament commitments are to be implemented and that non-proliferation undertakings are to be complied with. The countries in possession of nuclear weapons have a special responsibility to disarm. At the summit, decisions should have been taken to strengthen verification. There should have been commitments to make the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and other arms conventions universal. Negotiation processes should have been given a boost by the summit. None of that actually happened. Sweden looks forward to the recommendations of the Weapons of Mass Destruction Commission, chaired by Mr. Hans Blix. The failure to address the threat posed by weapons of mass destruction leaves us with an immensely important task ahead. The sixth challenge is to put the Peacebuilding Commission in place promptly. Far too many people in war-torn countries have seen a fragile peace relapse into new conflict. With the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission, the United Nations is better equipped to build peace in war-torn societies and to prevent countries from relapsing into war. In order to be successful, the Commission needs to draw on lessons from international peace efforts. Regional organizations will have important contributions to make. The Peacebuilding Commission needs a well- balanced composition, including major donor countries. Let us establish this Commission before the end of the year. Sweden is ready to do its part, including through the swift provision of financial contributions. The seventh challenge is to reform the Security Council and the Secretariat. United Nations reform will not be complete without Security Council reform. If the decisions of the Council are to be accepted as legitimate and effectively implemented, the Council needs to better represent the world of today. In addition, the Councilís effectiveness must be 40 safeguarded. There should be no extension of the right of veto, and the use of the veto should be limited. The reform of the United Nations also requires the reform of the Secretariat. The summit took several important decisions on management reform. Those include a review of internal rules, regulations and mandates and the strengthening of the oversight system. But greater flexibility must be given to the Secretary-General in managing staff and resources. That would not only make the Secretariat more efficient, but it would also enable Member States to focus more on strategic issues and make the Organization more dynamic. The summit has provided essential momentum for more effective multilateralism. The legacy of our efforts will continue to be determined during the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. During the months ahead the task can be completed - the task to create a United Nations capable of facing the challenges of our time. In conclusion, let me return to the subject with which I began: Darfur. The United Nations must, above all, serve the interests of the boy that I met there and of all the other children, as well as the husbands, the wives, the grandparents - men and women of this world who lack security, hope and human dignity. That is our mission.I bring greetings and congratulations to the President of the General Assembly from the Government and the people of Papua New Guinea on the occasion of the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations. I pledge my delegation’s support in the discharge of his noble responsibilities. I would like to commend again His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, Foreign Minister of Gabon, for his stewardship of the work of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I also pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and his staff for their continued efforts in servicing the needs of Member States. At the outset, I would like to convey the heartfelt sympathy and condolences of the people of Papua New Guinea to the Government of the United States of America and its people with respect to the loss of lives and the destruction of property in the Gulf states. We wish them well for a speedy recovery and in their reconstruction efforts. The United Nations has come a long way since its inception in 1945. The focus on international peace and security remains relevant, although since then it has taken on new and different dimensions, including the evil of global terrorism. The process of reform of the United Nations, particularly the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Secretariat must be reflective of the changing landscape of today’s international realities. The membership of the Security Council, both permanent and non-permanent, must be expanded to include equitable representation from developing countries. Work on the reform agenda, as set out in the outcome document (resolution 60/1) of the High-level Plenary Meeting, must commence without any further delay. We strongly support the early resolution of all the outstanding issues, including those related to human rights and to disarmament. Convening the recently concluded summit enabled us to see how much progress we have made in the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in our respective countries. Despite the Government’s efforts to achieve the MDGs, Papua New Guinea’s scorecard indicates that much more needs to be done. We recognize that combating poverty, HIV/AIDS, child and maternal mortality and unemployment and promoting universal primary education and gender equality are major challenges for Papua New Guinea. Important legislative, policy and administrative instruments are now being put in place. The Millennium Development Goals and targets have been incorporated into our medium-term development strategy, which ties the MDGs to our development programmes through the national budgetary process. I am happy to report that in July of this year the Papua New Guinea National Parliament endorsed a comprehensive national MDG report, compiled with the kind assistance of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). This now paves the way for concrete efforts at all levels of Government and by all relevant stakeholders to implement its recommendations. We are extremely concerned about the spread of HIV/AIDS in our country. Papua New Guinea has the highest incidence of reported cases in the Pacific region. Important national legislation and policies have been put in place to address all aspects of that scourge. These include placing the National AIDS Council directly under the auspices of the Prime Minister’s department. Papua New Guinea therefore fully supports the efforts of the United Nations and the international community to address that scourge. We support in particular the leadership of the Secretary- General in mobilizing international resources for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and to combat other diseases. Our development partners, including Australia, New Zealand, UNDP, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) and other United Nations agencies, continue to support Papua New Guinea’s efforts to address this critical issue. While we appreciate such valuable assistance, it must be coordinated effectively within the medium-term development strategy policy framework if it is to have maximum impact. 30 International finance, especially foreign direct investment and overseas development assistance, are vital instruments that can help developing countries such as mine to achieve the MDGs and other international commitments and obligations. Our Government is therefore committed to attracting foreign direct investment to assist us with development efforts in our country. At the same time, overseas development assistance must be used effectively, as measured against achievement of the national development goals and priorities set out in the medium-term development strategy. While Papua New Guinea has a good debt- servicing record, debt repayments still place considerable strain on our ability to provide much- needed services to our people. They affect the country’s ability to implement the MDGs, the outcome of the World Summit on Social Development and other important development commitments. Papua New Guinea commends the European Union’s assistance to help highly indebted poor countries (HIPC) with their debt servicing difficulties. Consideration, however, must also be given to other non-HIPC countries, such as mine, so that they can benefit from such goodwill and assistance. In this context, we support the proposal by President Macapagal-Arroyo of the Philippines to extend debt servicing assistance to highly indebted non-HIPC developing countries, including Papua New Guinea, under a debt-for-equity swap arrangement. Trade is the engine of economic growth and development. It is a critical prerequisite for sustained efforts to achieve socio-economic development, including the MDGs. Papua New Guinea was heartened to hear some leaders of major developed and developing countries at the summit indicating firm commitments to address the current distortions on international trade regarding the elimination of agricultural subsidies and other trade barriers. That is a positive signal of a move towards the creation of an open, equitable and rule-based international trading system. The ongoing Doha round of negotiations, as well as the economic partnership agreement negotiations between the European Union and the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries must place greater emphasis on development. The particular development needs of small island developing States — the result of their physical and structural disadvantages — must also be given priority in the negotiating process. As a young democracy, Papua New Guinea is committed to fighting corruption and upholding the principles of good governance and the rule of law. Corruption, in particular, is the main impediment to progress and development in developing countries such as Papua New Guinea. The victims of corruption are the poor, who are deprived of basic goods and services. That is a great challenge for us, and we are determined to combat it. Taking a step forward, Papua New Guinea has ratified the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Other policies and administrative and legislative measures have been put in place, along with existing constitutional provisions on the leadership code governing the conduct of leaders. The illicit trade in small arms and light weapons is a also a major threat to the peace and security of our country. Small arms and light weapons almost destroyed our country. The Bougainville crisis was fuelled by large quantities of small arms and light weapons. Papua New Guinea will seek the cooperation and support of neighbouring countries to put an end to the traffic in small arms and light weapons to the region. We therefore support the ongoing work at the United Nations to address that critical issue. The resolution of the Bougainville crisis was a success story for the United Nations in the history of peacekeeping efforts throughout the world. We thank the United Nations — especially the Security Council and the Secretary-General — and our friends in the Pacific region, including Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Solomon Islands, Vanuatu and Tonga, for assisting us in concluding the peace process. Peace and normalcy are now being consolidated, with the election of the first Autonomous Government by the people of Bougainville. They must be strengthened through social and economic development throughout the island. Basic goods and services are being restored and the infrastructure redeveloped on the island, but we will require the continued support of the international community in those efforts. We also look forward to the assistance of the proposed Peacebuilding Commission in such endeavours. Papua New Guinea, like many other small island developing States, suffers from natural disasters, such as volcanic eruptions, floods, cyclones, landslides, droughts and even tsunamis. The ongoing and never- 31 ending cycle of natural disasters continues to pose great difficulties for Papua New Guinea’s achievement of social and economic progress, including its achievement of the MDGs and other development objectives. Papua New Guinea therefore supports the establishment of early warning systems for all natural disasters and hazards. Papua New Guinea’s coexistence with the environment was enshrined in the preamble of our national Constitution at the time of the country’s independence in 1975. That constitutional imperative guided our commitment to implement the sustainable development goals and objectives resulting from the Rio Earth Summit, including the World Summit on Social Development outcome, the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and, more recently, the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action. Those multilateral commitments are vital if we are to ensure the proper management of our country’s rich natural resources and address critical issues, such as poverty eradication, climate change, sea-level rise and natural-disaster management. Legal and policy frameworks have been put in place to enable us to pursue development in a sustainable manner. Our Government is committed to undertaking economic development activities, such as mining, forestry and agriculture, in a sustainable manner. We call upon the United Nations and the international community to recognize the weakest, smallest and most vulnerable peoples of the small island developing States. The recently adopted Mauritius Strategy identifies certain commitments that must be fulfilled if we are to address the sustainable development and other development aspirations of small island developing States. The international community must, including at this General Assembly session, translate those commitments into action, through projects relating to water, sanitation and renewable energy and by addressing training and capacity-development needs. In this regard, we support the call for the mobilization of financial resources on a more predictable basis so as to implement the strategy as articulated in the summit outcome document. As a Member of the United Nations, we emphasize that all nations have a critical responsibility to address climate change, including sea-level rise. If we are to achieve lasting climatic stability, we must have a global commitment to the objectives of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The relationship between environmental sustainability and poverty is becoming increasingly clear. Papua New Guinea is therefore of the view that, when addressing tropical forestry, the world must better align market incentives with sustainable outcomes. In the forested rural areas of my country, the only real options for economic growth often require the destruction of natural forests — either when clearing for agricultural commodities such as coffee, or through the sale of hardwood timber. Furthermore, the International Panel on Climate Change found that, during the 1990s, an estimated 20 to 25 per cent of annual global carbon emissions were generated through land-use change, primarily from the degradation of forest resources. That is the second largest source of global carbon emissions — second only to the combustion of fossil fuels. That has to change if we are to take responsibility to help with issues related to climate change. Papua New Guinea is part of a new Coalition for Rainforest Nations, including Costa Rica and other countries, and is requesting a global discussion on access for ecosystem services to the global carbon markets as a means to alleviate this problem. Simply put, the present incentives offered by international markets for agriculture, forestry and emissions reductions lead directly to deforestation, environmental degradation and further poverty. We invite more like- minded nations to join our efforts to create new markets and to reform outmoded market and regulatory mechanisms. That is necessary if we are to contribute more effectively to environmental sustainability, economic development, climate stability and poverty reduction. Oceans and fisheries issues are critical to Papua New Guinea and to other Pacific island countries. Oceans and fisheries sustain the livelihood and well- being of our people and contribute significantly to our small economies. Sustainable development is a priority for Pacific island countries, including Papua New Guinea. We are concerned about the ongoing illegal fishing activities in the region. We require the support and assistance of development partners with technical capacities to strengthen our surveillance capabilities 32 and with regulatory regimes to address these issues of vital importance. Papua New Guinea fully supports the entry into force of the Western and Central Pacific Tuna Convention. Papua New Guinea welcomes any assistance that United Nations agencies — including the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations — and other bilateral and multilateral partners can provide to permit effective functioning of the Convention secretariat. The security of Pacific island countries depends on the collective security efforts of the region and of the wider Asia-Pacific region. Our regional security cooperation is attested to in the successful mission carried out by the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands, organized under the aegis of the Pacific Islands Forum. Papua New Guinea condemns international terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. Our support in the fight against this evil is unwavering and resolute. We have ratified most of the counter-terrorism treaties, pursuant to Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). However, our efforts are being hampered by technical and resource constraints; hence the need for the support and assistance of the international community to ensure effective implementation of those commitments. Over the years, Papua New Guinea has called for bold decisions and leadership on the part of both Israel and Palestine to exercise restraint and resolve their disputes through peaceful means. We commend Prime Minister Sharon and President Abbas for their bold and strong leadership towards the resolution of this long- standing issue. We fully support the positive efforts being carried out in Iraq and Afghanistan as democracy and the rule of law take root. These will be enhanced through economic and social development as well as through vital infrastructure development. Those efforts, however, must be supported by the international community. We are halfway through the Second International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism. Progress must be made to ensure that all the remaining 16 non-self-governing territories, including New Caledonia, exercise their inalienable right to self- determination by 2010. We are following the positive developments taking place in Tokelau, where the Government of New Zealand is helping the people to freely exercise their right to self-determination. South-South cooperation among developing countries is critical. It paves the way for enhanced trade relations and cooperation in areas related to the transfer of technology and know-how to address issues affecting those countries, including the fight against HIV/AIDS and the eradication of poverty. Papua New Guinea welcomes the establishment of the South Fund for Development and Humanitarian Assistance and the Government of Qatar’s initial pledge to contribute $20 million to the Fund. We commend the pledges by India and China to contribute $2 million each to the Fund. It is a significant step forward for developing countries to assist needy Members, including small island countries with vulnerable economies. We call upon the developed countries to recognize this valuable effort and to provide support to the Fund. Papua New Guinea will assume the chairmanship of the Pacific Islands Forum commencing in October. As Chair, Papua New Guinea will provide leadership in our collective efforts to address critical issues facing member countries, including the adoption of the Pacific Plan, which is built upon four main pillars, namely regional security, economic growth, sustainable development and good governance in the region. It must become a vehicle for translating the Mauritius Strategy and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development and the High-level Plenary Meeting into action on the ground in our respective member countries. We therefore welcome the support of our development partners in the implementation of the Plan after its adoption at the upcoming Forum meeting to be held at Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea, in October this year.At the outset, allow me, on behalf of the people and Government of Togo and on my own behalf, to extend our warmest congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I also assure you of the support and cooperation of the Togolese delegation, confident as I am that your experience and outstanding qualities will prove to be a major asset in ensuring that our work at this session will be commensurate with the great stakes and global challenges that we must meet together. I also convey to your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, our deep appreciation for the immense work he undertook with marvellous enthusiasm throughout his mandate. With commitment and insight, the qualities of a seasoned diplomat in service to his country, Gabon, and to Africa, he effectively guided the work of the preceding session, including the debates held in recent days on the Millennium Development Goals. I also take this opportunity to pay vibrant tribute to the Secretary-General, our brother Kofi Annan, whose commitment to the United Nations and to the great causes and noble ideals it embodies has allowed us to register critical progress in improving the quality and effectiveness of the United Nations operations. I pledge him my country's full support in the ongoing mission we have entrusted to him, which he has carried out with competence, serenity, resolve and humanism. The United Nations is now at a crossroads. The challenges that continue to face the world - in particular the ongoing conflicts that are ravaging many countries and regions around the world; the pandemics, floods and natural disasters; the terrible dangers that threaten the environment and the ecosystem; famine in various places, particularly in Africa, caused by drought and climate change; and the growing gulf between the wealthy countries and those afflicted by underdevelopment - require greater solidarity, the urgent reform of our Organization, and the adaptation of its bodies and operations to the new international context. My country, Togo, will therefore firmly support the United Nations reform process, as outlined in the report of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, entitled 'A more secure world: our shared responsibility' (A/59/565). Indeed, we absolutely must reaffirm certain fundamental principles and ideals that guided the founding fathers of the United Nations. We must devise strategies and working methods that are bolder and better adapted to the scope and seriousness of problems that cannot be effectively resolved except in the framework of this Organization, a symbol of solidarity and brotherhood among States and peoples. We need to pursue and step up our fight against poverty and hunger, the lack of education, gender inequality, child mortality, disease, environmental degradation, and devastating and lethal conflicts. I take this opportunity, on behalf of the Government and people of Togo, to convey our deep gratitude and thanks to the community of States represented here for its many expressions of support and sympathy for our country after the unexpected 29 demise of President Gnassingbé Eyadema and in the context of Togo's difficulties in the wake of his death. Very fortunately, Togo has emerged from that period of unrest and instability. Calm and serenity now reign and promise a new era of hope for our country. In fact, in spite of the tension and violence that marked the electoral process, Togo has continued since then to make tangible progress in peacefully reorganizing its social and political life. The representatives of all political persuasions and civil society have together established a Government of national unity. Moreover, in accordance with our desire for openness and dialogue, we have launched consultations with the Togolese political class and civil society in order to reach a broad consensus and mobilization in managing the process of national reconciliation and in efforts to ensure the return and reintegration of refugees. The consultations also mark the onset of a political dialogue that will allow us, through joint effort, to agree on electoral reform, the reorganization of regulatory bodies and institutions, and the stages and schedule of legislative elections. Safeguarding human rights and fundamental freedoms, enshrining the values and practices of democracy, and strengthening the rule of law and good governance are at the heart of the 22 commitments that my country approved on 14 April 2004 with the European Union. They are also at the very core of our action and of the demands and expectations of my fellow citizens. Immediately following the establishment of the Government, we therefore adopted bold measures and initiatives in various sectors. A special independent national commission of inquiry was created to investigate the violence and vandalism committed during the electoral process. Similarly, Togolese authorities at all levels have fully cooperated with the United Nations fact-find mission mandated to look into the violence and allegations of human rights violations committed between 5 February and 5 May 2005. The mission's conclusions and recommendations, which I believe will be useful and promising, will be considered in a spirit of open- mindedness and with a view to correcting potential areas of weakness so that we may never again experience acts of violence in future elections in Togo. In an effort to restore calm and reduce tension, all persons detained for their suspected involvement and responsibility in acts of violence, atrocities, pillaging of property and ransacking of buildings during the elections have been released. Also, with a view to strengthening citizens' confidence in the Republic's institutions, we have just launched a wide-ranging programme to reform the justice system. Today, we reaffirm that democracy spurs the harmonious and sustainable socio-economic development of Togo. In that respect, effectiveness and transparency in the management of the affairs of the capital and respect for human rights are important responsibilities of the Government of Togo. However, it is clear that the young democracy of Togo needs the international community's support in order to help democracy to take firm root and to strengthen peace and stability in West Africa. I take this opportunity to express once again the gratitude of the people of Togo to the African Union and the Economic Community of West African States for their assistance to Togo during such a crucial period. Building a State where the rule of law prevails is a long-term effort; it is achieved gradually and requires consolidation at each step. That is true for all great democracies. I therefore call on all our development partners to support Togo in its steadfast and irreversible march towards a democratic, law-based State in which all Togolese can fully exercise their fundamental rights and can act, think and create in complete freedom. In conclusion, I would like to underline once again the merits of international solidarity, in particular between the prosperous countries and the developing countries. In fact, we live in an increasingly interdependent world that faces multiple threats and challenges. Those threats spare no State, large or small, and make it imperative that we take coordinated and united action, in particular in those situations that jeopardize international peace and security. Africa, in particular, remains a zone of conflicts and instability, and this exacerbates the feelings of helplessness and distress among our peoples. We welcome the engagement and the support of the international community, in particular in Cote d'Ivoire, the Horn of Africa and the Great Lakes region. We welcome encouraging signs in the peace process in Burundi. However, we call on the United Nations and the international community to remain vigilant and active in helping the brotherly people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, whose country 30 is moving towards stability and the completion of its electoral process. Cote d'Ivoire must quickly return to the path of peace and harmony in order to pursue a leading role in the efforts for political and economic integration in West Africa. But we believe that it would be wise to take timely action to address the causes of those conflicts, rather than intervene at a later date to deal with the often devastating consequences. We should therefore reflect together on how to address the root causes of those situations. That leads me to make two suggestions for the Assembly to ponder. First, regarding institutions, Africa must put in place democratic institutions of a new kind, founded on the value of dialogue and the ongoing search for compromise and consensus, closer to our tradition of discussion than to the imposition of the majority decision. Second, we need to strengthen the management capabilities of States whose administration is still weak in order to improve the quality and the effectiveness of the public and administrative services, thus putting the State at the service of its citizens. I hope that our Organization will strengthen its action to make national administrations more effective and more accessible for citizens. By doing so, the United Nations would further realize its vocation as an irreplaceable forum for dialogue and solidarity in the service of humanity, the well-being of peoples and the maintenance of international peace and security.Allow me to congratulate the President on his election to preside over the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I wish to assure him and his colleagues in the Bureau of my delegation’s support as he guides our deliberations. Allow me also to thank his predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping of Gabon, for his effective leadership at the fifty-ninth session of the Assembly. In addition, let me take this opportunity to extend my country’s deep sympathy and condolences to all Governments and peoples that have suffered tragic losses of life and destruction of property as a result of acts of terrorism and natural and man-made disasters. At this general debate, I wish to address the Assembly on a matter of grave and immediate importance to my country that has serious consequences for the supremacy of international law and the maintenance of regional peace and security. Almost four years after the decision of the Eritrea-Ethiopia Boundary Commission, the dark clouds of war once again hang over my country. The legal provisions of the Algiers Agreement, the legal underpinnings of the independent arbitration process and the manner in which that process was established, and the unequivocal decision of the Boundary Commission are all too well known to be repeated here. But allow me to cite the cardinal elements of the Algiers Agreement to refresh members’ memories. Article 4.15 of the Algiers Agreement explicitly states, “The parties agree that the delimitation and demarcation determinations of the Commission shall be final and binding. Each party shall respect the border so determined, as well as the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the other party.” I must stress here that violation of the Agreement represents nothing less than blatant disrespect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of a United Nations Member State. In the sixteenth report on the work of the Boundary Commission of February 2005, when the Commission was forced to close down its field offices in Eritrea and Ethiopia, it warned that, “... the line of the boundary was legally and finally determined by its Delimitation Decision of 13 April 2002. Though undemarcated, this line is binding upon both Parties, subject to the minor qualifications expressed in the Delimitation 23 Decision, unless they agree otherwise. Conduct inconsistent with this boundary is unlawful.” (S/2005/142, Annex I, para. 33) The Boundary Commission’s decision should not be tampered with. In that regard, article 4.2 of the Algiers Agreement unambiguously stipulates that, “The parties agree that a neutral Boundary Commission composed of five members shall be established with a mandate to delimit and demarcate the colonial treaty border based on the pertinent colonial treaties (1900, 1902 and 1908) and applicable international law. The Commission shall not have the power to make decisions ex aequo et bono.” The situation with which we are now confronted is therefore not an intractable border dispute requiring the flexibility of the parties. It is squarely a grave matter of an illegal and forcible occupation of the sovereign territory of Eritrea, a United Nations Member State, in clear violation of Article 2.4 of the United Nations Charter. Ethiopia is not only occupying the village of Badme and other sovereign Eritrean territory; it also continues to build illegal settlements in those areas with a view to, in the words of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, creating facts on the ground. Ethiopia’s unrestrained assault on the rule of law and the sanctity of treaty agreements will have severe consequences not only for the people of the two neighbouring countries and the Horn of Africa but, through the bad precedent it sets, also for other countries and regions, as well as for the credibility and the legitimacy of the United Nations. Yet Ethiopia’s acts of occupation continue to be tolerated by the United Nations and the other guarantors of the Algiers Agreement. Paragraph 14 of the Agreement on Cessation of Hostilities (S/2000/601, annex), which is an integral component of the Algiers Agreement, specifies that “OAU and the United Nations commit themselves to guarantee the respect for this commitment of the two Parties until the determination of the common border ... This guarantee shall be comprised of: “(a) Measures to be taken by the international community should one or both of the Parties violate this commitment, including appropriate measures to be taken under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter by the United Nations Security Council;”. The United Nations and the African Union, as guarantors, are parties to the treaty. They have obligations to ensure implementation of the Algiers Agreement without preconditions. In the event that either Eritrea or Ethiopia fails to implement the Agreement, the United Nations is empowered by the Agreement to invoke Chapter VII of the Charter with respect to the reneging party. The treaty agreement must be enforced and the numerous international instruments must be applied in order to end occupation and restore legality. The Security Council is mandated to maintain peace and security, inter alia, by eliminating all forms of occupation. Unfortunately, the United Nations and some members of the international community have so far been advancing arguments that are irrelevant to the issue and are in contravention of international law in order to decline from taking the appropriate action. Existing and aspirant members of the Security Council — both permanent and non-permanent — must fully appreciate the fact that the cardinal principle of the Charter is that membership of the Security Council must be considered as service to humanity and the cause of peace and not as a means to promote and protect their own interests or the interests of their allies. They must uphold the sacred trust to protect the credibility and viability of the United Nations. Respect for international agreements has been, and must continue to be, the foundation of the principle of peaceful coexistence among nations. Any compromise on that principle will result in the erosion of trust in the international system and will severely damage the functioning of the United Nations. Eritrea and Ethiopia may soon be dragged once again into a new phase of armed conflict. Yet, there is still an opportunity for a peaceful resolution if the United Nations honours its treaty obligations and addresses the one core issue, Ethiopia’s illegal occupation of sovereign Eritrean territory. If the United Nations fails to reverse the occupation, it will be as responsible as Ethiopia for any renewed armed conflict and its consequences. 24 At this juncture, I wish to remind the Assembly that the United Nations has betrayed the Eritrean people twice during the past 60 years. This would be the third betrayal if it does not respect its treaty and Charter obligations by settling this occupation through peaceful means. In conclusion, I wish to inform the Assembly categorically that Eritrea is determined, and has the right, to defend and preserve its territorial integrity by any means possible.Let me begin by congratulating President Jan Eliasson on his election. Allow me to assure him of Poland’s readiness to support him in his efforts during this session. I would also like to join the European Union presidency — to whose statement we fully adhere — in expressing my words of gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping for his leadership during the preparations for the sixtieth anniversary summit. This year in Poland we are commemorating the twentieth anniversary of the Solidarity movement. In the history of Europe since the Second World War, there have been few events that can be celebrated with a similar sense of pride and satisfaction. The history of Solidarity — and in particular its rebirth in 1989 — opened the way to profound historic changes in Europe and the entire world, including the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the Communist bloc. I hope and believe that Solidarity’s message still remains an inspiration not only for Poland, but also for the entire world — wherever there are people who uphold or aspire to freedom and solidarity. In that spirit, I would like to repeat our call to celebrate 31 August as a world day of freedom and solidarity. In our opinion, global solidarity should be the central value in and the key tool for achieving a new sense of community and realizing our common interests. Poland’s dedication to the concept of solidarity also draws strength from the fact that Poland itself benefited from foreign aid and support. Today, we are undergoing an important transition in our status: from aid recipient to donor. We hope that Poland’s active cooperation for development will serve as a catalyst for further change and help lay the foundation for democracy, sustainable development, human rights and the rule of law. For us, however, the concept of responsible solidarity is not solely limited to humanitarian endeavours; it means more than assisting the poor and underdeveloped. Solidarity is an operational principle, which generates cooperative attitudes among countries in need, including those plagued by terrorism, natural and manmade disasters, weak State structures and other calamities. Solidarity means rescue rather than relief, remedy rather than alleviation. It should be driven by need — not by right — and cut across dividing lines. It is solidarity that can help to bridge religious and ideological divides and overcome the difficult legacy of the past. Indeed, if we want to build a world without divisions we must first suppress all disputes that feed on past grievances. We have to find a way to reconcile divergent points of view without sacrificing our principles. The recently concluded High-level Plenary Meeting was a product of enormous efforts to forge a new global consensus on development, security, human rights and United Nations institutional reform. The agenda of the summit was long and ambitious. The preparatory process, as well as the summit itself, offered many insights, ideas and useful recommendations that merit further serious consideration. However, despite the great determination and expectations, we failed to achieve unity in confronting all of the world’s most menacing problems. The United Nations is a ponderous institution and does not embrace change easily. Thus, we should not expect that each and every summit will provide us with revolutionary changes. Real breakthroughs are usually the result of a lengthy process. Consequently, our outcome document should be regarded not as the end of reform, but as a guide for the further practical steps that need to be taken. In that context, I call on Members to devise a plan to implement our summit decisions and to submit it to the General Assembly for adoption. This time, we must break the vicious circle of inaction and ensure a proper follow-up to the summit. Finding workable forms and mechanisms for cooperation has never proved easy and will remain a serious challenge for the months ahead. The United Nations operates in a constantly changing international environment. We have already identified major new threats, risks and challenges: the fanaticism of international terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, organized crime, States in crisis and failed States. Although we claim to know their nature, we will never be quite able to predict how, where and when those threats will manifest themselves. At the same time, such threats cannot overshadow the importance of addressing their root causes, such as development gaps, poverty, social exclusion, natural disasters, discrimination and intolerance, among others. 19 We are passing through a transitional stage with all its strains and stresses. International institutions and mechanisms — designed to serve the old international system — must face the challenge of reform and accommodation. The United Nations is not an exception. As a consequence, we have had to find ways and means to respond to the swiftly changing nature of security threats and risks. Thus, the challenge remains the same as for all of us: how do we manage that change? In this era of globalization and rapid change, no country alone can fully ensure its own security. State security is more than ever before dependent on external determinants. What we need is an innovative and imaginative approach to security, both in the realm of strategy and in its constituent processes. Moreover, we have to develop a new security paradigm according to which the security of individuals is as important as the security of States. Likewise, we need a new concept of sovereignty that attaches greater importance to protecting the rights of people than to the prerogatives of State power. We must place the human being at the centre of the activities of international institutions. It is true that the first duty of a Government should be to protect those living within its jurisdiction from genocide, mass killing and human rights violations. However, in certain instances, the responsibility of the international community to take action must be ensured. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is a longstanding problem that has afflicted the international community for many years. However, in the light of the particularly threatening nexus of terrorism and weapons of mass destruction, it has taken on a new dimension. No State is immune to it or is protected from its consequences. At the same time, existing systems of national control and international non-proliferation agreements are not completely effective and are undermined by loopholes and lacunae which enable States and individuals to bypass the regime. It is all the more disappointing, therefore, that the United Nations summit failed to reach an outcome on non-proliferation and disarmament. To address that challenge adequately, we have to strengthen the three pillars of the nuclear-arms-control regime: non-proliferation, disarmament and the peaceful use of nuclear energy. We should, however, ensure that it works in a harmonious and self- sustaining way. Another issue is that of enforcement. Legal norms that are not effectively enforced obviously do not serve their purpose. We have to seek ways and means to ensure effective verification and to enforce respect for existing non-proliferation and disarmament obligations. We cannot count solely on persuasion and containment. More fundamentally, we need a comprehensive review of the existing negotiating machinery. With that in mind, two methods of action are possible. One would be to establish a group of experts; the other — perhaps a better solution — would be to request that a respected international independent research centre — such as, for example, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute — prepare a report containing recommendations on how to make existing United Nations institutions and mechanisms more effective, operational and efficient. Our concerted efforts to strengthen the United Nations will be doomed to failure if we continue to believe that only security issues matter. They certainly do matter, but security is a much broader concept. It does not involve only the absence of hard or soft threats. It is, above all, about the absence of threats to fundamental human values. Likewise, the eradication of poverty is essential not only to peace and development, but, first and foremost, to the preservation of human rights and standards. Ensuring social justice and reducing inequalities do not involve only the allocation of scarce resources to guarantee security; they also presuppose both human freedom and human dignity. In that context, Poland welcomes the proposed changes to the United Nations human rights machinery, especially the decision to establish a Human Rights Council. We believe that such an organ would enable us to promote respect for human rights in a more efficient and responsible way. We should also promote democracy through the United Nations in order to protect human rights and expand democratic freedoms. No one can claim that democracies are free of contradictions and injustices. But it is democracies that best serve to defend the values we want to protect and promote. In that spirit, on behalf of the citizens of Poland, I would like to reiterate our sincere and strong support 20 for the Democracy Fund, established to assist countries in their transition to democracy. I truly believe that this new mechanism will help to address differences among and within societies in a spirit of true respect and understanding. Poland’s commitment to the community of shared values does not mean that we disregard the institutional and technical aspects of reform. Institutional adaptation should be characterized by openness, transparency and effectiveness. These are precisely the principles that have guided us in the process of analysing Security Council reform and establishing the Peacebuilding Commission and the Human Rights Council. Reform of the Security Council is proving to be an enormously complex and divisive issue. Although necessary, it should not be conducted at the cost of compromising the Council’s capacity to meet its Charter responsibilities. The Republic of Poland believes that the effectiveness and efficiency of the Security Council rests on the assumption that membership not only grants additional privileges but also increases responsibilities. Furthermore, Poland fully recognizes the importance of the ongoing process carried out by the Secretary-General, which is aimed at enhancing effective management of the Organization. We strongly encourage continuing such efforts to strengthen United Nations accountability and its oversight mechanisms as well as to promote the efficient use of its human resources. System-wide coherence, particularly regarding operational capabilities and humanitarian assistance, should be high on the reform agenda. We hope that such an approach will enhance the Organization’s capacity to carry out its new tasks and meet its new challenges, thus enhancing the authority of the United Nations and its role in the international system. Poland’s commitments in the framework of the United Nations are not made based on tactical considerations. We are not calculating what we can gain from this or that choice. We do not expect to make political profits or economic gains. But we share a sense of solidarity and responsibility with respect not only to our own country but also to the entire international community. A system based on values and principles may not be perfect, but it is likely to be more peaceful and, in the long run, more conducive and responsive to the needs of peoples. In that spirit, I hope that this anniversary session will provide a strong impetus to rebuild the community of shared values and enable us to replace the global psychology of competition with a spirit of cooperation.Let me first convey, on behalf of the people and the Government of Albania, the most profound sentiments of sympathy, friendship and solidarity to the people of the United States and to President Bush with respect to the human suffering and the material damage caused by Hurricane Katrina. I would like to wish Mr. Jan Eliasson every success in carrying out his important mission. I take this opportunity to assure him of the full cooperation of my country in accomplishing the undertakings ahead of us. Let me also join others in thanking Mr. Jean Ping for the dedication he demonstrated as president of the General Assembly at its previous session and for the efforts he invested in the revitalization of our Organization. Albania aligns itself fully with the statement made at the 9th plenary meeting by Mr. Jack Straw, Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom, on behalf of the European Union. I am privileged to address the Assembly on behalf of the new Albanian Government, which took office following recent parliamentary elections. I will set out some of my country’s positions on issues of concern to us all and outline my Government’s strategic priorities in the field of foreign policy. The fact that, just a few days ago, a large number of heads of State and Government gathered at the United Nations to assess the progress made in the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals and to debate the reform of the Organization should be taken as a reaffirmation that multilateralism is a driving force in global policy. That also serves once again to confirm that we are living in a very complex and multidimensional environment that clearly requires comprehensive, global and coherent reactions. The need for enhanced regional and global cooperation has never been more pronounced. Albania therefore supports the outcome of the High-level Plenary Meeting, which reaffirms our faith in the Organization, the importance of the core values and principles of international cooperation, the global partnership for development, concerted actions to strengthen collective security and peace, the fight against terrorism, promoting human rights and the rule of law and the strengthening of the United Nations, in particular its comprehensive reform. Albania believes that, through concrete and speedy action, the sixtieth session of the General Assembly will constitute an important and meaningful step towards the implementation of all the commitments to which I have referred. Albania believes that the United Nations should be further strengthened in order to continue to play a decisive role in the efforts of the international community to create a safer, more stable and prosperous world. We would like to reiterate our appreciation for the efforts of the Secretary-General with regard to reforming the United Nations. Albania shares his view that the United Nations needs to have the legitimacy and flexibility to adapt itself to the circumstances of a changing world. The Security Council clearly has enormous responsibility in that regard. My country fully supports the reform of the Security Council. It should be noted, however, that we view Council reform from the standpoint of improving its working methods and transparency and of adjusting and improving the decision-making system. We firmly believe that Members acting together have the necessary power and capacity to achieve very broad consensus on Council reform. 34 The roles of the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the Secretary-General must not be underestimated. Their potential has not yet been fully explored. The success of the reform effort can be assured if it is coherent and aimed at the Organization as a whole. Albania is encouraged by the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting with regard to the strengthening of the United Nations. We reaffirm our willingness to work with all delegations to achieve the broadest consensus possible on the most important reform issues. Albania believes that the Peacebuilding Commission will be an essential and efficient tool for developing more coherent, relevant and better funded strategies and for giving timely political attention to a country making the transition from conflict to sustainable development. In that connection, the reform of the United Nations will better enable the Organization to improve the work of the international community and assist countries in the post-conflict phase. We believe that the exchange of views on the establishment of the Human Rights Council will be completed soon. An action-oriented Council with a credible membership will improve the quality of United Nations efforts in the area of human rights. Moreover, we fully support the strengthening of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, including increasing its budget. Albania believes that the initiative to establish a Democracy Fund is an essential component of reform. My country will make every effort to support the Fund. Like other friendly countries, we consider it an effective mechanism to support new democracies, strengthen civil society and establish institutions supporting the rule of law. The numerous tragic events of recent years have confirmed that terrorism, which has taken thousands of innocent lives, is the most urgent threat facing the world today. My country will remain committed to fighting this evil. We support Security Council resolution 1624 (2005), which was adopted during the high-level summit. We also join the solemn appeal to finalize the comprehensive convention against terrorism during the course of this session of the General Assembly. We believe that acts of terrorism carried out with weapons of mass destruction can have unprecedented consequences for humankind. Arms control is a key element of my country’s security policy. In that regard, I should like to point out our ongoing support for the further strengthening of crucial international disarmament and non-proliferation instruments. Albania is therefore fully committed to cooperate on disarmament and non-proliferation issues both in its own region and beyond. To that end, we have put in place robust measures at the national level to prevent the illicit trafficking in arms on our territory. In addition, with regard to implementing commitments on the control of small arms and light weapons, we have amended our national legislation in order to bring it closer to that of the European Union in areas such as licensing, strengthening import and export regimes and enforcement. Part of the Government’s programme in this area has included the destruction of some 200,000 small arms and light weapons that had been in the hands of civilians. Moreover, in cooperation with foreign donors, the Government has drafted a programme to destroy all chemical weapons materials on our territory, thereby contributing to the strengthening of security in the region and beyond. Albania is continuing to demonstrate the growing maturity of its democracy. The year 2005 is an election year in Albania. Last July’s parliamentary elections and orderly transfer of power were tangible developments that had a positive impact on the country’s future political, economic and social development. Albania believes that good governance is a key element in improving the lives of all its citizens. Good governance is also an essential precondition to guaranteeing sustainable economic growth and eradicating poverty. In that regard, we will work tirelessly to strengthen the rule of law, promote transparency in the decision-making process and increase the Government’s sense of responsibility to serve all citizens. With regard to the economy, the new Albanian Government’s priorities in the coming years will be to fight corruption and the factors that encourage it, promote free competition and relentlessly combat monopolies. A set of measures is being contemplated to improve the national education system. Among those measures is the opening of universities to all who want to pursue higher education. 35 In addition, for the first time in its history, a woman heads Albania’s National Assembly. This is a strong indication of Albania’s serious commitment to gender equality. The new Government is committed to improving the country’s macroeconomic indicators. We are determined to develop social policies that guarantee gradual improvements in people’s living standards, particularly for the most vulnerable. In order to achieve its programme’s goals, the Government will support the expansion and modernization of the financial system, while keeping inflation under control, in an effort to improve the legal framework necessary for economic development. With regard to our close cooperation with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, we are determined to promote sound macroeconomic and investment policies that will guide the country towards sustainable development, encourage the private sector and promote employment. I would also like to assure the Assembly that our Government is fully committed to implementing the Millennium Development Goals. We share the belief that coordinating and harmonizing national and local development strategies, with wide-scale civil society participation, private sector initiative, heightened public awareness and the holding of public debates to identify the most effective ways and means to achieve the Millennium Development Goals will lead to the desired results, including in Albania. The Albanian Government is resolved to combat organized crime, transnational crime, illegal trafficking and terrorism relentlessly by strengthening national legislation and law enforcement structures and by establishing relevant implementation mechanisms and fully committing itself to regional cooperation on a wider scale. That effort will serve to bring us closer to our friendly neighbours as well as to all European countries. This is a common struggle. It should be recalled that my country has had excellent experience in coexistence among different religious communities. We are convinced that strengthening dialogue among cultures, civilizations and religions is an important element in strengthening peaceful coexistence and good-neighbourly relations. It also holds great potential for strengthening cooperation among countries. In that connection, an international forum was held in Tirana in December 2004 under the auspices of the President of Albania and the Director- General of UNESCO. In addition to discussing important issues related to such a dialogue, the gathering also paved the way for further cooperation in that regard. My country has decisively committed itself to the path to Euro-Atlantic integration, with the clear purpose of joining the European Union and NATO. We view Euro-Atlantic integration as our country’s entry into the zone of peace, stability and prosperity established in Western Europe over the course of many years. Joining that family will signal our society’s embrace of such values as economic and political freedom, fundamental human rights and freedoms, the primacy of law, social prosperity and solidarity. It will also reflect that fact that we are making our contribution to that set of values. Albania is preparing for the closure of negotiations of the Stabilization and Association Agreement with the European Union that will lead to its signature. We are convinced that our country has the ability to meet all the requirements of this very rigorous process. Albanian society is firmly committed to carry out reform, which will contribute to our integration into the European Union. We believe that the reform process is, first and foremost, in the interest of the country and of strengthening the economy and improving Albania’s image in the world. We view NATO as a guarantor of security in our region. By increasing cooperation with NATO we are aiming at membership soon. Albania’s participation in NATO peacekeeping operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Afghanistan constitutes a real contribution to both regional and international peace and security. Good-neighbourly relations and cooperation with the countries of our region continue to be top priorities of our foreign policy. Our vision for a region of stability and security, through fruitful bilateral and multilateral cooperation, is sincere and is already quite clear. Our philosophy regarding the development of such relations is based on three basic principles: transparency, tolerance and dialogue. In that context, we have intensified high-level political dialogue with all the countries of the region. We have expanded the framework for legal and institutional cooperation at the bilateral and multilateral levels in many areas of common interest. That dialogue is becoming more 36 constant and sensible due to a spirit of mutual understanding and confidence. Through their growing participation in peacekeeping missions in areas of conflict throughout the world, several countries of the region have been transformed from consumers to worthy contributors to the maintenance of international peace and security. With regard to positive developments and progress in the region, Albania has consistently played a positive, moderating and constructive role vis-à-vis Albania’s neighbouring countries by promoting multi- ethnic coexistence in an atmosphere of harmony and lasting peace. Albanian foreign policy holds that determining the status of Kosovo is an important issue. There is no more time to lose. The status quo will not guarantee lasting peace in the region. We believe that the answer to Kosovo’s status should take into account the will of its people as democratically expressed and not disregard the rights of minorities. In that regard, conditional independence could allow the international community to monitor the development of Kosovo’s institutions and society for a given period and, above all, would provide a guarantee for Serbs and other minorities to live in their own homes in that country. We all believe that Kosovo’s future, as for all the countries in the region, lies in European and Euro- Atlantic integration. We Albanians are confident that, in his forthcoming report, Mr. Kai Aide, Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for Kosovo, will provide an objective assessment of the standards achieved thus far in Kosovo in connection with the establishment of the institutions for the rule of law and a democratic environment that will open the way for negotiations on Kosovo’s final status. The Contact Group on Kosovo has an important role to play in that process. In short, there have been some preliminary positive results. But there is much work to be done by us all to encourage and sustain the dialogue between Pristina and Belgrade. There are many issues to discuss. With good will and the determination to achieve peace, we have much cause to optimistic.At the outset, I would like to express the condolences of the people of Paraguay over the tragedy caused by Hurricane Katrina. I express my Government's solidarity with the victims and with the Government of the United States, and I ask God to swiftly assuage the grief of so many families. We are gathered here to commemorate the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations. Six decades is time enough to reflect on the historical process of this Organization and, above all, on the debate concerning the relevance of reforming it. This reform is absolutely crucial and must be directed not only to set up standards that would regulate the capacity of Powers to make war; it is of primary importance that the reform promote equitable economic development, because in a selfish world, where the number of societyís orphans grows daily, it will be very difficult to have global peace. Changes cannot be partial or superficial and must not merely satisfy the hegemonistic ambitions of a few. We need to govern globalization with democratically 17 agreed legal norms and bodies that, through their inherent legitimacy, would have the authority to ensure compliance with their regulations. It must be a desire for world balance, not financial clout within the Organization, that should determine the direction to be followed in the United Nations; otherwise, the power of money will prevail over the power of justice and the rights of peoples, which would dangerously thwart the noble mission of the United Nations. This means that reform cannot deepen divisions; that would be illogical. The Charter must reassert the role of unity among diverse nations which, in spite of their differences, must live together and share their resources and values, which give dignity to the lives of men and women and of our peoples. Development in equity and democracy is the formula. But to reach this stage, we need more international trade and cooperation. Lately a wall is rising to block our exports, while cooperation is being watered down ó or the little cooperation that remains is undertaken unjustly or according to the mood of those involved. The old promise taken on by the richest nations to devote 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product (GDP) to less developed countries has not been respected thus far, except for the honourable exceptions of Norway, Luxembourg, Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands. But it is a hopeful sign that the President of the United States has said in this forum (see A/60/PV.2) that his Government is in a position to eliminate all the subsidies that cause backwardness and poverty for peoples with emerging economies insofar as the other rich nations do likewise. That would be of great benefit to people who are experiencing shortages due to the unfair international order that the President of the United States himself mentioned, so that our peoples' democracy can be stable and sustainable. It is important to point out that between 1990 and 2003 the rich countries increased their per capita income by $6,070, while during the same period, their assistance per capita fell to one dollar; this reflects the great stinginess that prevails in the current globalization model. The United Nations has a primary role to play in humanizing that model. The subsidies granted by rich countries to their agricultural sectors, as well as the assistance that they give to each other, are a cruel paradox. That assistance amounts to a little more than $1 billion annually and the subsidies to a little less. That global policy - weak in terms of cooperation and perverse in terms of trade - will end by undermining the emerging democracies in developing countries. We in Paraguay are deeply convinced of those tenets. Our wish is to cooperate so that our noble purposes will govern the new world order. In our domestic affairs, we have managed to reverse a long process of deterioration to achieve macroeconomic stability and political institutionalization. We are working to increase growth and to strengthen democracy through good governance, thereby tackling and resolving our social problems in a way we had never done in the past. Today my country, Paraguay, is becoming a nation in a predictable situation and one worthy of international trust. We are not bound by any political or economic dogma. Rather, we are seeking to liberate our people from crude fanaticism, from ideological prejudices, from political violence and from fatalism, because we believe we are capable of forging our own destiny in a world of greater brotherhood. Indeed, Paraguay is rich in development potential. We have abundant natural resources: land, water and energy. And, even more important, we have a young population that is highly motivated to grow, to learn and to work. Even though our economy is still small, we are adopting policies and plans to expand our production, increase employment, improve domestic purchasing power and increase exports. We are moving towards an economy that can compete in terms of both quality and innovation. Our country is among those States that lack direct access to the sea. Tragically, Paraguay is landlocked, which is a considerable obstacle to our aspiration to build an economy based on production and international trade. For that reason, we need to create special lending arrangements for landlocked developing countries, ensuring them differential treatment in areas such as lower interest rates and longer grace periods. Such measures could attenuate the comparative disadvantages we feel as a result of our geographical situations. Another dimension I would like to touch on is the importance of new information and communication technologies and of biotechnological and other scientific research. The knowledge and use of those resources cannot be concentrated in the hands of the 18 few. They must be made universally available. Paraguay believes this to be a necessary prerequisite for the growth of global competitiveness. Two years ago my Government inherited a situation of economic stagnation, recession, sterile political antagonism, violence, growing poverty and weak and unreliable public institutions that led to timid social policies that were a long way from addressing the Millennium Development Goals. Today we are recovering political and macroeconomic stability, democratic governance and, above all, trust in the Paraguayan State and in our business sector. We have great challenges ahead of us, but, with faith in the capacity of our people, we are tackling them to build a more just international order. The major challenges in my country are tackling extreme poverty and health care, which affect the neediest sectors of the population: indigenous people and small farmers. To address those issues we have promoted a rapid increase in spending for social services to put a stop to growing poverty. We are financing new programmes: a social protection network for vulnerable groups, with financial subsidies linked to school attendance; in the field of health care, a nutrition programme for pregnant women and for boys and girls at risk for malnutrition; large-scale shipments of seeds for subsistence crops; the purchase of land for small farmers, with a view to ensuring social peace; free medical care for all children under the age of five; concessional electricity rates; and a scholarship programme for students from the most vulnerable schools. With humility, but also with great faith in the future and in the international community, democracy and freedom - we in Paraguay are building a socially, fiscally and environmentally responsible State. In the international context, we join the appeal for a more just and humane world order in which the less developed nations are not condemned for all time to discrimination, indifference and backwardness. In order to achieve those goals we have no alternative to an inclusive multilateralism that offers balance, rationality and justice in international relations. We also condemn terrorism in all its forms. We believe that terrorism is a threat to civilized processes and to the imperatives of resolving conflicts and establishing peaceful coexistence in the world in order to ensure the development and prosperity of our peoples. Similarly, we reiterate, as we have done year after year, our formal support for Taiwanís inclusion in the United Nations, so that the brotherly and supportive Republic of China can have a place and become an integral part of our Organization as a full-fledged Member, in accordance with the principle of universality and the norms of international law. In addition, my country is deeply concerned by the instability and high prices in international oil markets, which militate against our hard-won macroeconomic stability. Our country has not escaped the harmful impact of that phenomenon, given the most unjust burden on society: inflation. We are making every effort to control inflation, because we know that high oil prices have a negative impact on economic growth and poverty reduction. Today, our Government is significantly subsidizing the price of oil, thus depriving the State of major financial resources for necessary social programmes. I would like to say at this meeting that Paraguay is suffering from a misapplication of international justice. There is an attempt to prohibit payments to our State from financial transactions carried out by representatives of a corrupt dictatorship which, with the complicity of a group of international banks, wants to deprive us of resources that we desperately need for social peace in our country. We hope that the appropriate United Nations bodies will not permit the peoples of developing economies to be deprived of major resources through devious legal procedures. We hope for justice in this area from international institutions. The United Nations must either change to lead and to take up the challenges of our time, or it will hide behind a superficial change in order to survive and will become an accomplice in the regression of our peoples and the perpetuation of backwardness. This is a crucial moment that we are experiencing as leaders of our countries, sixty years after the creation of the United Nations and five after the Millennium Development Goals. We find ourselves at a crossroads with two paths before us: one of injustice and indifference that leads to a world that is increasingly poor, unfair and insecure, and the other the path of far-reaching change that leads to peace and global well-being. 19 I would like to express my hope that this historic session of the General Assembly will obtain the commitments and actions required to reduce and eliminate the suffering, abandonment and frustration of thousands of millions of people and that our efforts will yield its expected fruits for the well-being of mankind. I trust that God will give us the necessary wisdom and strength required to lead our countries along the path of liberty, peace, development and justice.I would first like to congratulate Mr. Jan Eliasson upon his election to the 10 presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. He has an important and challenging task ahead. In carrying out his duties, he can be assured of my full support and of that of the Maltese delegation. I take this opportunity to express our appreciation to the outgoing President of the fifty-ninth session, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping. The last 12 months have demanded exceptional leadership and commitment from the presidency of the General Assembly. I wish to join others in congratulating Mr. Ping on the firm and successful way in which he has guided this Assembly in the preparations leading to the summit which was just concluded. The summit has passed on to us significant tasks in the continuing endeavour to sustain and reinforce the processes of multilateral cooperation. It is right that we should take as the central theme of our discussions the follow-up and implementation of the summit conclusions. In the light of the discussions our leaders had last week, we approach these responsibilities all the more inspired by the imperative for collective action. Such action is incumbent on the international community, as much in dealing with the short-term challenges it has to overcome as in defining the long-term objectives which it seeks to achieve. Among the most immediate and visible challenges confronting us is the way in which we respond to the natural disasters which at one time or another engulf peoples and societies around the world. The past 12 months have produced awesome evidence of the way in which humanity remains subject to the forces of nature. The tsunami late last year and Hurricane Katrina only a few weeks ago are only the most prominent among recent major catastrophes which intensify both our sense of vulnerability and our sense of solidarity. In extending our expression of grief and sympathy to the Governments and people afflicted by such disasters, the Maltese people have also extended their offers of succour and relief. While times like these remind us that nature can be unpredictable in its ferocity, they also teach us that it must always be treated with respect. If managed responsibly, nature’s resources can improve our lives considerably. However, if those resources are ruthlessly exploited, humanity will be the ultimate loser. It is unfortunate but true that the blind forces of nature are not the only cause of extensive suffering among fellow human beings. Political and economic developments, over which Governments, individually or collectively, have at least some element of control, are also factors in play. Nowhere are the combination of natural and man-made causes more dramatic than in those instances of unregulated and often tragic migration flows. Over the last few years, Malta, like many countries, has been caught in the worrisome increase of unregulated human trafficking across the Mediterranean. In our case, as a small island with a very high population density, the problem quickly assumed crisis proportions. Malta has a strong and longstanding commitment to help those who need humanitarian assistance. We shall stand by that. We are deeply conscious that long- term action in this area needs to be premised on profound respect for human dignity and strict adherence to the rule of law, including international humanitarian law. However, the international community must not allow the rights of refugees and persons requiring humanitarian status in accordance with international law to be undermined and prejudiced by international criminal organizations specialized in human trafficking activity. In our case, our ability to respond to genuine cases is fast becoming overwhelmed by the huge increase in illegal immigrants, who are the object of an international criminal network of human traffickers. Illegal immigration constitutes a collapse of the international legal order and must be addressed unequivocally by the world community as such in order to ensure that the rule of international law is restored in that regard. Countries of origin and transit need to assume their responsibility to uphold the rule of law by vigorously clamping down on international criminal activity in human trafficking. The United Nations and its agencies, particularly the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, are called on to address this issue, which, if it is not addressed, could prejudice the rights of genuine refugees and persons qualifying for humanitarian status in accordance with international law. 11 At the same time, the spirit of solidarity inspiring action in this area needs also to be put to use in addressing the roots of illegal economic migration, a phenomenon that is harmful not only to the individuals themselves — who fall victim to callous criminal organizations, often paying with their lives — but also to the economic and social development of the countries of origin. For that reason, we welcome the summit statement reaffirming the principle of solidarity and burden-sharing with regard to assisting genuine refugee populations and their host communities. In that context, we look forward to the General Assembly’s high-level dialogue on international migration and development, to take place in 2006. It will give us an important further opportunity to discuss the multidimensional aspects of that problem and identify appropriate ways of dealing with them. Malta will take an active and constructive part in that dialogue. Last week’s summit provided important new guidelines in many critical areas requiring collective action. In the area of development cooperation, there has been a rededication to the objectives first defined in the Millennium Development Goals. Malta joins its partners in the European Union in strengthening its commitment towards increased and more effective development assistance in the coming years. We have set ambitious goals for the successful completion by next year of the World Trade Organization’s Doha Round of multilateral trade negotiations. Malta’s national contribution will be commensurate with its possibilities and its level of economic development. Nevertheless, it will take inspiration from our constant endeavour to strengthen and enlarge the areas of peace, prosperity and security for all peoples of the world. We will have a renewed opportunity to reaffirm those commitments in November, when Malta hosts the next Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting and assumes the chairmanship of the Commonwealth for the next two years. Peace and prosperity must be rooted in human dignity. Our leaders devoted a significant part of their discussions last week to the question of human rights. The summit decisions on this subject may not have gone as far as some of us would have wished. Nevertheless, they were an important step towards the objective of equipping the United Nations with a more effective institutional structure to deal with the defence and promotion of human rights worldwide. In the current session of the General Assembly, we will aim to bring to fruition the summit’s decisions in the area of human rights, especially the establishment of the Human Rights Council. Another area where questions of human dignity are of paramount importance relates to the principle of the responsibility to protect. Our leaders have taken a brave step by reconciling the different strands of that principle, which seeks to encapsulate an important moral duty in the development of the law of nations. Respect for State sovereignty, the strict parameters on the use of force and the overarching commitment to respect and defend human dignity and the right to life owed to all individual human beings are all vital aspects of the decisions taken by the summit in this regard. Further work in that area must continue to be inspired by the sense of solidarity which is shared by people around the world and the common, worldwide ethical responsibility to act to defend the innocent. Effective post-conflict peacebuilding is an important dimension in which the international community can give practical expression to the notion of collective responsibility. We therefore strongly welcome the agreement to establish the Peacebuilding Commission, which underlines and reinforces the United Nations capacity in the area of peacekeeping and peacebuilding. That is an area of international cooperation where the interface between action at the regional and global levels is critical. The task entrusted to us by the summit to finalize the modalities of the Peacebuilding Commission by December this year is among the most far-reaching responsibilities of the current session of the General Assembly. Another area where international cooperation is especially important concerns the fight against terrorism. Notwithstanding the differences that might remain on the precise interpretation and scope of the concept, there is a widespread commitment to resisting and eliminating that outrageous and horrific attack on the everyday order and serenity of life in our societies and the right of ordinary people to a secure and peaceful life. On the basis of that recognition, we urge immediate steps to intensify and expand concrete actions that respond to the immediate concerns of our citizens. The elements of a counter-terrorism strategy announced by the Secretary-General earlier this year provide a useful pointer in the right direction. 12 We need to take our collective action against terrorism further. Malta believes that no terrorist action is ever excusable, and our action against terrorism must be unequivocal, firm and decisive at all times and in all instances. However, we must deeply analyse and examine the roots of the problem. In particular, we must not be passive when we see situations around the world where States have been unable to provide a social welfare net for their peoples and where, as a consequence, the poor and the desperate conglomerate around extremist organizations, which may also practice terror while simultaneously providing welfare assistance to strengthen their popular base. Social responsibility for the provision of welfare should be in the hands of the State, which represents society in all its diversity. In my view, it is imperative that international development programmes should also have that particular focus. The ultimate objective of the current session of the General Assembly should continue to be progress towards the conclusion of a comprehensive convention on international terrorism. Aside from agreeing on a new set of tasks and measures for reform, at last week’s summit our leaders reaffirmed and further developed the concepts and principles that lie at the heart of the United Nations. Those concepts and principles will inspire the deliberations of the Assembly’s current session as it considers the many specific issues on its agenda. Issues of peace and security are a major part of that agenda. They are particularly poignant today, the International Day of Peace. Malta welcomes the recent evolution of the situation in Palestine, marked by Israel’s disengagement from the occupied territories in Gaza and parts of the West Bank. We urge the parties concerned to maintain the momentum for peace that has been created. We acknowledge and salute the bold and tough decisions taken by both the Israeli and the Palestinian leadership, which are making this development possible. We have a clear sense of the complexities and sensitivities involved for both sides in pursuing their respective actions. Together with our partners in the European Union, Malta wishes to encourage this latest development as a path towards the full resumption of the Middle East peace process. This calls for a continuing determination by both sides not to allow obstacles to stand in the way of their carrying out the next set of actions called for under the Quartet road map: Israel’s freezing of all settlement activity, and the cessation of all violent attacks by Palestinians against Israelis everywhere. We are convinced that the ultimate objective — the existence of two neighbouring, viable sovereign States, living in peace and security, is within reach and certainly worth the effort and sacrifice involved at this stage. In the Mediterranean, regional cooperation continues to be strengthened through the Barcelona process and other initiatives for subregional consultation. Within the broader framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy, countries to the north and the south of the Mediterranean are working together on a wide range of actions to further peace, prosperity and progress in their region. Those actions include areas of primary interest for Malta and its immediate neighbours, such as the management of migration flows, the promotion of human rights, democratization, counter-proliferation and counter-terrorism efforts, the acceleration of increased market integration and the objective of improving the social and economic living conditions of all peoples in the region, especially the most vulnerable among them. The further economic, social and political integration of the Euro-Mediterranean region is the primary challenge of the countries belonging to it and would have beneficial consequences for the international community as a whole. Malta is particularly interested in developments relating to the future enlargement of the European Union. Following the entry of Bulgaria and Romania in 2007, the next stages of that process could encompass a number of countries in our region, such as Croatia and Turkey. Malta believes that the further enlargement of the Union would provide an impetus for positive reform in European countries in general and for the creation of a wider European area of peace, stability, democracy and human rights dedicated to the prosperity of its peoples in a spirit of solidarity. Malta welcomes the fact that the European Union is increasingly acting as a promoter of peace and cooperation in regions beyond its immediate vicinity. That is the case with regard to the framework for wider cooperation provided by the Strategic Partnership with the Mediterranean and the Middle East. 13 The expansion of political rights and political participation is an essential dimension of the broader strategy to combat extremism in its various manifestations throughout the world. Malta welcomes the intensifying transatlantic engagement in this regard which, especially in the Middle East, seeks to foster wider participation in support of home-grown economic, political and educational reform efforts for societies in the region. The European Union is also cooperating increasingly with the African Union in the implementation of actions and decisions agreed within the framework of the United Nations. We hope that that encouraging development will further reinforce the many peacekeeping, humanitarian relief and reconciliation efforts under way in many parts of the African continent. The institutional set-up and functioning of the United Nations have been the subject of intense scrutiny in recent months. This has laid bare some of the weaknesses of our Organization. At the same time, it has highlighted the many areas in which our Organization is playing a unique and indispensable role in the process of multilateral cooperation. Regrettably, instances of human and institutional failures have been brought to light. At the same time, the much larger number of instances where the institutions are working well and where individuals are acting with admirable commitment and dedication have also been given prominence. In particular, developments in recent months have placed in a sharper focus the commitment and dedication of the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, in carrying out his exceptionally complex and demanding task. I would like to take this opportunity to express our deepest admiration and support for the Secretary- General for the major contribution that he has been making towards effective multilateralism and respect for the international rule of law. Our challenges have never been as global as they are today. Recent natural disasters have emphasized to all of us our vulnerability as the human race. Globalization in all its aspects, including global communication, has not only brought home to us the immediacy of events and information, but has also further accelerated dynamic change in all aspects — political, economic and social — in all societies on Earth. The situation of constant flux and dynamic change further increases the need for the United Nations to be a reformed, effective focal point for the international community, one that is ready to respond to, and proactively work to meet, the challenges of peace, security and development. This year, which marks the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations, it is useful for us to approach the exercise of reform keeping in mind the words of the Secretary-General in his report, “In larger freedom”, that “the principles and purposes of the United Nations, as set out in the Charter, remain as valid and relevant today as they were in 1945, and that the present moment is a precious opportunity to put them into practice”. (A/59/2005, para. 153).It is my honour to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. I also wish to pay tribute to the tireless efforts of your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for the manner in which he guided the work of the fifty-ninth session. I wish to extend the condolences of the Right Honourable Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, Perry Christie, and the Government and people of the Bahamas to the Government and people of the United States in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina last month. This is a scene with which the people of the Bahamas are regrettably all too familiar, and we continue to offer our assistance and support in any way possible. The High-level Plenary Meeting held last week, at which so many heads of State and Government were represented, served as a timely and much-needed reminder of the need for us all to recommit ourselves to the purposes and principles of this Organization. At a time when some have begun to question the purpose of this Organization, the Bahamas reaffirms that the United Nations remains the best chance for all States, large and small, to achieve peace, security and sustainable development for our peoples. One of the leaders who spoke last week was the Most Honourable P. J. Patterson, Prime Minister of Jamaica. On April of 2006, Mr. Patterson demits office after more than a decade in the service of his people and the Caribbean region as Prime Minister, and a generation as a parliamentarian and Government Minister. His statement last week was perhaps his final statement to this Assembly as Prime Minister. The Bahamas - and the region joins us, I am sure - salutes Mr. Patterson as he retires from active public life. Mr. Pattersonís example in Jamaica is one that we know well enough in the Caribbean region. It is the example of democratic governance and the traditions of regular elections and accountability to the publics whom we serve. The history of democracy in our region has also produced for the region an enviable standard of living in many ways. This way of life has been described by the Prime Minister of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, The Honourable Ralph Gonsalves, as the 'Caribbean civilization' - one that did not develop without significant investment in our people and that cannot be sustained unless that investment continues. The region is neither poor nor rich. It falls in between, having accomplished most if not all of the Millennium Development Goals. But as we watch the development of globalization, there is a tendency to forget that this region of relatively few people and small nations requires the continued support of the developed world. Nowhere is this more evident than in the decisions taken on sugar and bananas. There is a symbiotic relationship between the region and the developed world, with many of our people leaving the region to help to sustain the way of life of the developed world. There is a major transformation right now in economies throughout the region. Our view is that greater attention from our developed partners must therefore be paid to that region in transition, looking towards investment, particularly in education, support for the delivery of health care and continued support for democratic governance. It is not charity that is required, but a sound, sensible investment in our common future. Haiti is our poorest member in the region and is perhaps the example from which it is best to draw lessons. We want to thank Brazil and the many sister countries of Latin America that have risen to the challenge with men and materiel. But while much has been given, there are many pledges of donor aid that have not materialized as they should. It is a complaint throughout the developing world that donors make pledges of financial and material support but do not follow through on those pledges. Haiti today is paying the price in a real way for having charted the way towards freedom in this hemisphere when, in 1804, it struck a blow for the freedom of Africans in the West. Today, we repeat what the American Christian Bishop, T. D. Jakes, said 5 in the National Cathedral in Washington last week when praying for the victims of Hurricane Katrina: it is what we do that counts, but what we say we will do. Haiti is of major interest to us in the Bahamas, because, given the circumstances of its economy and its national politics, the Bahamas and the region are facing increased pressure from illegal migration from Haiti and the threat of instability. It is incumbent upon all of us in the United Nations to do all that we can to help resolve the issues in Haiti. It is also important that we not overlook issues of global governance and institutional reform. It would be nearly impossible for small States, in particular, to sustain meaningful gains from the process of globalization without a voice and without participation in international decision-making and norm-setting bodies. It is for that reason that the Bahamas is encouraged by the discussions that took place during the high-level dialogue on financing for development, held earlier this year, which confirmed that there is a place for the United Nations in all aspects of global standard-setting and assessment. The dialogue clearly demonstrated that there is a need to address the democratic deficit in many of the international economic, financial and trade institutions. From this rostrum last year, the Bahamas called for the convening of a global forum to address the unfairness of unelected bodies imposing mandates that are unfunded upon developing economies like ours in the region, without our countries having an opportunity to be heard and to influence the result. We call once again for such a forum, and pledge that the Bahamas will continue to work towards levelling the playing field, particularly in the financial services sector. The images of destruction in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina are all too familiar to many small island developing States. The images have been sobering, as we realize that even the biggest and strongest of us has to grapple with the difficulties associated with the recovery from such a destructive force of nature. Last year in this Hall, we said that the native peoples of our region were so familiar with the violent storms that plague the region in the summer months that they called them hurricanes. Today, we are seeing those storms hit with a savagery unknown in recent times. It leads us to question whether we are now being confronted by cyclical change or by climate change. Either case places front and centre the need for public policy on sustainable development and the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for small island developing States. The Bahamas, much of whose land is barely five feet above mean sea level, wishes to highlight the need to undertake global action to address the problems of climate change. With the warming of the Earth's surfaces and oceans, we have seen an increase in the incidence of natural disasters, many of them causing untold loss and damage. We have an opportunity, however, to address the adverse effects of climate change. We have a chance to make a statement here during this session that we will not neglect our common but differentiated responsibility to protect our environment and to send this message to Montreal, where, in November this year, the Kyoto Protocol can finally begin to take on a more substantial form. For countries such as the Bahamas, the threat of devastation as a result of natural disasters is exacerbated by man-made hazards. We once again reiterate our grave concern about the serious threat posed to the security and economic development of Caribbean countries by the trans-shipment of nuclear waste through the Caribbean Sea, and continue to call on States involved in such trans-shipments to desist from that practice. In this context, I wish to highlight the continuing efforts of the Caribbean region to designate the Caribbean Sea a special area in the context of sustainable development. The achievement of sustainable development will require healthy, productive populations that are able both to contribute to and benefit from social and economic progress. The unrelenting spread of HIV/AIDS continues to threaten that progress in all countries, but particularly in the hardest hit developing countries. The Bahamas is a leader in the fight against HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean region, and has been recognized at the international level for the progress made in turning the tide against that disease in our country. We pay tribute to Dr. Perry Gomez, our lead physician in the fight against HIV/AIDS and, indeed, to my predecessor at this rostrum, Mr. Denzil Douglas from Saint Kitts and Nevis, as well as to all the other caregivers throughout the world. We welcome this body's reaffirmation at the highest levels of the fight against that disease. In this context, the Bahamas looks forward to the high-level five-year review of the progress made in 6 implementation of the Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS, scheduled to take place in June 2006. At that time we must undertake an honest appraisal of what we have achieved and where we are failing short, and we must determine the way forward towards achieving the full implementation of the Declaration of Commitment. In addition, the Bahamas has seen useful ideas advanced by the United States of America, the World Health Organization and the Pan American Health Organization, to prevent a bird flu pandemic. We would like to take this opportunity to alert the world that we must fight to stop such an eventuality, and pledge our support in doing so. By virtue of its geographical location, the Bahamas is an unwitting transit point for illegal drugs from producing countries south of our borders to consumer countries to the north. We have consistently pointed out that the Bahamas does not produce such substances and is not the ultimate destination for them. That, however, does not stop the countries that consume the drugs from blaming countries like ours for the scourge. It is very unfair to do so. It is clear that consuming nations must increase their efforts to reduce demand within their borders. We continue to cooperate with the United States and other countries in that international fight. Our successful efforts and those of the broader region have been acknowledged by our international partners in the fight. I should like to mention in particular the admirable performance of the Bahamas in its counter-narcotics effort and the superb record of our country's police in terms of dismantling drug-trafficking organizations, as well as our hard work to improve the country's ability to combat money-laundering. It is a fight that we pledge to continue. The Bahamas, like other transit countries, is experiencing the negative social impact of illegal activities associated with that trade. The deadly nexus between illicit drugs and small arms and light weapons and other criminal activities is undermining the economic and social fabric of our nation. We therefore welcome the conclusion in June of the work of the Open-ended Working Group on the marking and tracing of small arms and light weapons. The Bahamas, like many other countries, would have strongly preferred to reach agreement on legally binding commitments on the marking and tracing of such weapons. Nonetheless, we hope that this tool will provide some of the necessary political will and momentum to make real progress in halting the illicit accumulation and spread of small arms and light weapons. We also look forward to adopting concrete commitments in the near future to regulate the activities of brokers of small arms and light weapons. In addition, the Bahamas continues to call on developed countries to take the same extraordinary measures they use in seeking to stop the trafficking of drugs into their countries to stop illegal arms from reaching our shores from their countries. The Bahamas is pleased to note the adoption by the General Assembly on 13 April 2005 of the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. We hope to be in a position to sign the Convention in the near future. We are resolute in the fight against the attacks on innocent people going about their daily lives by those pursuing dubious and nefarious political ends. The vicious attacks in London and Sharm el-Sheikh this year demonstrate clearly the urgency of our task. However, we must also remember that the fight against those who would attack our common civilization can never be used as an excuse to curtail the rights and freedoms of our citizens, and we must ensure that all counter-measures must conform to both the letter and the spirit of international human rights law. If we lose our common humanity in the process, the other side will win. We must also ensure that a spirit of cooperation and assistance permeates our international cooperation efforts on this issue, as we unite to fight a common enemy. Over the past year, various issues related to the management of United Nations programmes and funds have been highlighted in the world media. Our Organization has been plagued by allegations of corruption and abuse. Therefore, during the months leading up to the present session, the Bahamas welcomed the opportunity to engage constructively in consultations to ensure a successful outcome on the question of management reform of the Organization. We reaffirm our support for the Secretary-General with respect to the bold measures that he promised in his report entitled 'In larger freedom' (A/59/2005), and we believe that he should be given the necessary level of authority and flexibility to fulfil his function as our chief executive officer. However, that is not to say that we support those proposals from other quarters that would seek to transfer power from the General 7 Assembly to the Secretary-General in matters such as the redeployment of resources. The General Assembly is and should remain the principal policy organ of the United Nations, with absolute powers in the area of setting priorities. The Bahamas also looks forward to continuing discussions on the reform of the Security Council, particularly in relation to the Councilís working methods. Let me take this opportunity to thank Mr. Kofi Annan for his fine work in leading the United Nations through treacherous seas over the past years. We will shortly celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of the signing of the Charter of the United Nations. Looking back over the past 60 years, there is much of which we can justifiably be proud. There are some cases where we must accept that the international community failed to live up to its legal and moral obligation to act for the benefit of people in need. There are some cases where our decisions were dominated by big-Power pragmatism and doubtful legalisms, as opposed to moral certainty and philosophical clarity. As we move forward, let us be sure that we learn from our mistakes as well as our successes. We have engaged in a process of reflection, which at times has been painful. Let us emerge from this stronger, more unified and determined to act to achieve the goals adopted 60 years ago to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom. The peoples of our nations demand and deserve nothing less. Now, more than ever, we need the United Nations.During the past year, we, the Member States, embarked upon a reform process without precedent in the history of our Organization. The international community became fully aware of the need to transform the United Nations in order better to meet the threats and challenges of our time. Although significant progress was made, we have not yet achieved the expected goals. The political and intellectual contributions put forth by the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, the Secretary-Generalís Report ìIn larger freedomî (A/59/2005), the United Nations Millennium Project report and the input provided by the Group of Friends for the Reform of the United Nations are, among others, important efforts that have guided our discussions aimed at defining the future of our Organization. Now, our task is to take stock of the lessons learned, of the good and the bad, in order to make this sixtieth session the year of the United Nations reform. The outcome document adopted by heads of State and Government during this summit is a point of departure. It is not yet the final result. It should be seen as the architecture that will lead us in the building of the new United Nations. It is crucial that we keep the reform momentum alive and implement as soon as possible the changes demanded by the international community and our Governments. In Mexicoís opinion, there are three key aspects among the lessons learned that need to be taken into consideration during the work of this sixtieth session of the General Assembly. First, reform of the system must be comprehensive. It will be very damaging, futile and inadequate if we decide to sacrifice a comprehensive approach by focusing our efforts on just one aspect of the reform. A great deal of the frustration stemming from the summitís outcome occurred because of the extensive attention and time given to reform of the Security Council. We cannot deny the importance of this issue, but we should not hold the whole reform process hostage to the exclusive discussion of one single item. Throughout the long days of discussion prior to the summit, it became evident that the issues which aroused interest and triggered concern were those such as human rights, development, the fight against terrorism, the environment, the social agenda and management reform. It is much clearer today than it was two weeks ago that the United Nations inevitably needs to make simultaneous headway on those issues of priority for the international community. Secondly, the most effective means of advancing the reform process lies in genuine negotiations open to all interested States, with agreed timelines for both adoption and implementation of the commitments reached. All delegations witnessed that, in the last three weeks prior to the summit, we were able to make more and faster progress than during the previous long months of consultations and speeches. The summit acted as a catalyst for serious and committed intergovernmental negotiations. Then we were finally able to perceive with the required precision each Member State's limits and margins of flexibility. In the light of that experience, we must turn to negotiations as the most productive working method. Thirdly, in order to gain relevance and effectiveness, the United Nations institutional structures should adapt to real global problems and not the other way around. Otherwise, we could be in the absurd situation of building institutions pleasing to high political and diplomatic circles but very disappointing to the societies they are meant to serve. Discussions on the new Human Rights Council illustrate that kind of failing. The number of members has received far more attention than the mandates and tasks it should carry out in order to promote human dignity. It is urgent that this be reversed. Mr. Eliasson, you will be presiding over a very unusual General Assembly session. Fruitless efforts have been made for years to find the formulas to revitalize the highest globally representative organ. Today, driven by the winds of reform and the need to ease the Organizationís sense of crisis, the General 28 Assembly has rare momentum to steer the future course of the United Nations. This is where major agreements could be reached and where States' commitments will be recorded. Mexico is fully confident that, during your presidency, the General Assembly will grow stronger as the main political forum for major global decision-making. As stated by the President of Mexico at the recent summit (see A/60/PV.4), we are at the starting point, not at the finish line. Our task is incomplete, and it is urgent to establish a Peacebuilding Commission to put into practice the concept of the ìresponsibility to protectî; to establish a Human Rights Council that could make an immediate difference vis-a-vis the weaknesses and double standards that have tarnished the reputation of the Commission on Human Rights; to begin negotiations on reform of the Security Council, with the common purpose of putting in place the best possible collective security system, one that can effectively face today's major threats. Development continues to be a priority among the aspirations and concerns on the global agenda. Mexico has made particularly important efforts in this realm. The International Conference on Financing for Development, held in the Mexican city of Monterrey, became a watershed in our approach to that subject. A partnership between rich and developing countries was forged for the first time ever, with the purpose of fighting poverty head-on and defining financial targets and timetables in that fight. We therefore particularly appreciate the decision of those developed countries that have announced precise timetables and levels of their gross national product to be allocated for official development assistance. We reiterate our call to the rest of the economic Powers to move in that direction, and we urge the developing countries to present, as soon as possible, their own national strategies to ensure that they can access those resources. It is crucial that all parties fully meet their commitments. We cannot allow ourselves to go backwards in this connection. The President of Mexico has asked me to put on record our disappointment at the fact that the summit's outcome document did not include a section on disarmament and non-proliferation. My delegation will join forces with other interested member States to restore this sensitive issue to the United Nations agenda. For Mexico, which last April had the honour of hosting the first Conference of States Parties and Signatories of Treaties That Establish Nuclear- Weapon-Free Zones, disarmament and non- proliferation issues are a top priority on our international agenda. Because of this, and because of the hazardous international scenario we have experienced in recent weeks, we consider it urgent to find a way to end the paralysis faced by the multilateral forums dealing with this matter. Likewise, Mexico attaches great importance to the agreement reached during the summit to finalize a comprehensive convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. We urge all Member States and Observers to continue their negotiations with a view to making sure that this instrument is adopted by the General Assembly during its current session. Finally, I would like to comments on the section of the outcome document dealing with the rule of law. The rule of law in international relations is a rational preventive tool for settling disputes. The United Nations legal machinery constitutes an ally of the Security Council in the maintenance of international peace and security. Based on the comprehensive reform promoted by my country, we deem it necessary for States to reinforce their commitment to strengthening the International Court of Justice in a substantive way. Mexico will remain a firm promoter of United Nations reform and of seeking multilateral solutions to address the world's major problems. Through the Group of Friends for United Nations Reform, and during this critical year in the life of our Organization, we will go on putting forward proposals and mechanisms to implement decisions. In this regard, I would like to echo President Fox's appreciation to his counterparts from Algeria, Australia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Germany, Japan, Kenya, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Pakistan, Singapore, Spain and Sweden for their intelligent and constructive contribution to the reform process. The diversity of views within the Group and the decision to focus on delivering concrete proposals to solve the problems of the United Nations, as well as those of the world, demonstrate that it is indeed feasible to reach agreements and translate them into action. We are confident that this spirit will spread throughout the membership of the United Nations, and that the sixtieth session will truly mark the beginning of the second phase in the life of our Organization. I wish to begin, Mr. President, by congratulating you on your election to lead our work during this session. We wish you full success during your presidency. Likewise, our gratitude goes to His Excellency Mr Jean Ping for his work during his mandate. We also extend our heartfelt thanks to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his devotion as head of the Organization. The anniversary we are now celebrating should inspire an appreciation of the importance of dialogue among all the nations represented here in achieving collective well-being. Above all, we must recognize the challenges ahead. We all know that our Organization is passing through a crucial moment in its existence. We can either strengthen it or weaken it. I reaffirm the commitment of my Government to participate significantly in pursuing the reform process, in particular in substantive areas in which we have yet to achieve agreement and which are essential for successful reform of our Organization. The historic process in El Salvador has shown that lasting peace and democracy cannot exist without development and respect for human rights. My administration is doing everything possible to maintain a humanistic form of government focusing on people and their expectations and placing economic and social development at the heart of our programmes. As a developing country, however, we are constrained by limited natural, technical and financial resources. Sometimes, these limitations are increased as the result of natural events and other external factors such as the increase in oil prices which is truly devastating to our economies. 2 At last year’s General Assembly session, we expressed the need to find solutions to the impact of oil prices on economies. Since then, we have witnessed with great concern that the prices of hydrocarbon products, far from dropping or stabilizing, have spiralled excessively as never before. This situation not only seriously affects our development efforts because of the high oil bills, which lead us to divert funds that could be used for social programmes, but also has become a serious threat to social and political stability and human security, primarily in the least developed and other developing countries. In addition to those conditions and other factors related to instability and price speculation, there is a growing trend to exclude middle-low-income countries from assistance and international cooperation, further limiting the ability of those States to meet the challenge of development and in particular of achieving the Millennium Development Goals. We firmly believe that the United Nations must discuss this issue with due seriousness and responsibility in order to find joint and supportive solutions that will help mitigate the crisis we are facing. I propose that the Department of Economic and Social Affairs or the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean carry out a study on the impact of increased oil prices on achievement of the Millennium Development Goals and on national development efforts worldwide. Although South-South cooperation has become a valuable instrument that contributes to development, it is also important to recognize that further use should be made of North-South cooperation, in particular through creation of the Global Development Alliance, which will make it possible, through a mutually beneficial approach, to achieve economic growth and sustainable social well-being. We feel that it is essential that as part of the comprehensive reform of our Organization we promote the strengthening and greater efficiency of funds and programmes in the operational activities of the United Nations system. Similarly, I would like to highlight the importance of setting up a just and equitable international trade system, based on predictable and non-discriminatory regulations consistent with the principles of free trade. El Salvador is committed to achieving the Millennium Development Goals that have been set for 2015, despite external factors that affect us and limit our capacity to invest in development. With that vision in mind, El Salvador has launched its Opportunities programme aimed at improving the living conditions of thousands of Salvadorian families. It contains five basic components. The first is the Solidarity Network programme to combat poverty and extreme poverty head on, with a special role for Salvadorian women. Through the Chair of the Commission on Women, we are doing everything we can to ensure that protecting the rights of women is on the agenda. We can confirm that the participation of women in peace and development has been essential for successfully achieving our goals. Secondly, the programme covers microcredit for developing micro and small businesses; this will promote the development of new sources of income through self-employment. Thirdly, the Health Solidarity Fund (FOSALUD) provides for the establishment of a tax on tobacco, alcohol and firearms. Those resources will be used to expand medical services in public health units to 24 hours a day; here, we have seen excellent results. Fourthly, the Presidential Youth Programme has begun to include young people in the development process. Finally, our Get Connected programme is aimed at creating a model for public education that makes technology and information available to students. It is with great hope that El Salvador is gradually moving towards achieving most of the Millennium Development Goals. For example, we reduced the number of individuals living in extreme poverty by 18 percentage points between 1991 and 2004. The percentages have gone from 33 per cent to 15 per cent, which means we have reduced the figure by half. The infant mortality rate for children under the age of one has decreased significantly, from 45 per 1,000 live births in 1991 to 25 per 1,000 in 2004: a reduction of 20 points. We need to strive for a further 10-point reduction. Participation of young people in economic and social development is a priority. It is a source of energy and creativity that can improve our society and put us on the path to the future. We also welcome the holding of the second phase of the World Summit on the Information Society, to be 3 held in Tunis in November 2005. We urge participants to be active in agreeing on commitments, with specific objectives that will help reduce the digital divide separating countries. Like that of the first phase, held in Geneva in 2003, the outcome of the 2005 Tunis Summit on the Information Society should reflect deep respect for freedom of expression as a pillar of democracy in order to ensure that a free and independent press continues to work unhindered throughout the world, as expressed in article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The HIV/AIDS pandemic has become a serious problem that crosses borders and does not respect nationalities. The magnitude of the spread of this epidemic has meant that we must concentrate on prevention without forgetting treatment and support for individuals living with this illness. In El Salvador, we shall shortly host the third Forum on HIV/AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Diseases in Latin America and the Caribbean, the fourth Central American Congress on Sexually Transmitted Infections and HIV/AIDS and the fourth Central American Meeting of People Living with HIV/AIDS in order to unite our efforts and exchange experiences. We are hoping to have support from the United Nations. We urge the entire international community, in particular the donor countries, to continue to provide their support to national efforts to combat HIV/AIDS and to reduce the costs of the medications that are available. One of the matters that require greater interest and attention is that of migration because of its economic, social and cultural impact in countries of origin, transit and destination. This matter should be dealt with from a multidimensional approach, one that would establish guidelines for international, regional and subregional cooperation, adopt and coordinate joint policies based on the contribution of migrants to development, as well as prevention efforts and action against illegal immigration and the trade in human beings. One matter of particular interest to El Salvador is the scourge of national and transnational organized crime. The phenomenon of gangs is closely connected to a series of serious offences that gravely threaten the security of individuals and their assets. It also has a bearing on corruption; it reduces our people’s morale and it has a negative impact on our development efforts. We believe that one of the measures that ought to be taken collectively to most effectively and efficiently combat this scourge would be to strengthen the capacity of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, and to enhance international cooperation. We agree that the system to protect human rights needs to be strengthened but it is necessary to establish an objective mechanism that is transparent, de-politicized and non-discriminatory. El Salvador fully supports the strengthening of the collective security system, with full respect for the principles of the Charter and universally recognized human rights. We recognize and appreciate the role played by peacekeeping operations. We feel it is important to continue considering the proposal of establishing a strategic military and police reserve that would allow for rapid deployment to deal with hostilities stemming from conflicts, as well as to maintain post-conflict peace and security. We are satisfied with our contribution to collective peace with our growing participation in peacekeeping operations. In particular, we provide troops from our national civil police as a result of peace agreements worked out and signed with the United Nations. With regard to disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation, El Salvador supports the efforts aimed at reaching a global commitment to eliminate weapons of mass destruction. In this regard, we support Norway’s initiative to adopt a declaration on disarmament and security. As to the situation in the Middle East, we wish to express our gratitude to the Government of Israel for carrying out its disengagement plan, a unilateral measure that will conclude with the total withdrawal of the Israeli presence from the Gaza Strip. This is a show of political will and the desire to put a lasting end to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We believe that continuing to adopt measures to generate mutual trust will enable both parties to resume the peace process, as set out in the road map. Similarly, we reiterate our support for the right of the Palestinian people to establish an independent State, as well as the right of the Israeli people to live in peace and security, free from any terrorist threat from radical groups outside the law. 4 With respect to the situation in Iraq, we trust that all political forces will participate in setting up new institutions for Iraq and that there will be an understanding which will lead to the establishment of a state of law based on representative democracy. One of the pending items on the international agenda that we must not disregard is the situation related to Taiwan and its inclusion in the concert of nations. We believe that the United Nations must look into the question of Taiwan, because it is a reality that we cannot ignore, since the representation of the Taiwanese people internationally is a responsibility of this Organization, in accordance with its universal principles and purposes. Similarly, we hope that there will be peaceful coexistence on both sides of the Taiwan Strait. I now wish to refer to the question of natural disasters and the high level of vulnerability to which all of our nations are exposed, as seen by the tragic events that took place recently in various parts of the world, and most recently in the United States. This should lead us to rethink and reassess our commitments and our decisions with respect to the environmental situation in which we find ourselves. On behalf of the Government and people of El Salvador, I wish to express our most sincere condolences and our show of solidarity to all families who lost loved ones and valuables as a result of these phenomena, and we urge the community of nations to pay greater attention to the environment. Finally, I simply wish to point out that our people firmly believe and hope that the United Nations is and will be an Organization that has legitimacy and the capacity to contribute to the attainment of peace, security, freedom, sustainable development and the promotion of human rights. Our role as heads of State and Government is to strengthen this belief and this hope, showing that we can work together in a united fashion to achieve concrete results for the well being of our people throughout the world.Allow me to congratulate the President, on his election to his high post and to express our confidence in his successful and professional implementation of the mandate entrusted to him. Allow me to also express our gratitude to Mr. Jean Ping for his untiring activity in guiding the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. Last week the High-level Plenary Meeting concluded its work, which resulted in the adoption of an outcome document, reflecting the Meeting’s commitment to attaining the Millennium Development Goals. The United Nations is an irreplaceable structure of multilateral inter-State interaction. Therefore, the question on how it will respond to the hopes and aspirations of every Member will determine its viability. We agree with the Secretary-General that the Organization “remains fully engaged in conflict resolution, peacekeeping, humanitarian assistance, defence of human rights and development around the world”. (A/60/PV.2) We support the proposals contained in the outcome document on strengthening the United Nations in areas of development, ensuring collective security, counteracting terrorism, ensuring the dignity of the individual and reforming the Organization. We are in favour of strengthening the role of the United Nations, and urge more transparency in its work and an improvement of its structure. The activities of its bodies should be conducted on the basis of a wide consensus among Member States. We welcome the efforts of the Secretary-General aimed at preventing conflicts and strengthening preventive activity in that area. We support the efforts against terrorism by the Security Council’s Counter-Terrorism Committee. Its role is invaluable in coordinating and exchanging information and analysing trends. The present session is devoted to an appraisal of the progress made by States in achieving the Millennium Development Goals. Therefore, allow me to share with you information on how Turkmenistan is implementing the Goals. Reforms are being implemented in Turkmenistan in the economic and social sphere, in accordance with the national programme of social and economic development for the period until 2020. The reforms have assisted in establishing a powerful industrial potential, creating a market model for administration and the private sector of economy, and ensuring dignified living conditions for the people. Turkmenistan possesses huge energy resources, gas and oil industries being the main sources of development of the national economy. The energy potential of Turkmenistan is currently estimated at more than 45 billion tons of oil equivalent, or a fifth of all world reserves of natural gas and oil. Thanks to the national programmes developed in the early years of independence, the reforms have introduced a new type of industry. Turkmenistan, by its own national resources, has invested $30 billion in the national economy and has built over 1,050 industrial plants and factories possessing highly sophisticated equipment. We have been successfully developing new branches of industry, namely, the oil and gas, energy, textile and food sectors. In the textile industry, we have established new specialized companies and large integrated textile plants, organizing large-scale production of various cotton fibre products, 60 per cent of which is exported. The textile industry represents 28 per cent of the overall volume of production of our manufacturing industry. The agrarian sector of the economy has undergone complete reconstruction. Since the middle of 1995, all collective and State farms have been abolished. Reform has been directed at transferring land to private ownership and long-term lease and expanding the areas of privately-held lots. The Government has undertaken measures to stimulate private agricultural production. Half of the cost of 33 technical services is borne by the State. The population has been exempted from payment of taxes on land, houses, construction and the maintenance of cattle and poultry. All these and other measures have strengthened agriculture and have stimulated a growth in production. This year Turkmenistan harvested a record 3.1 million tons of wheat. At the current stage of development, consumer demand in our country is met mainly by domestic production, practically ensuring food independence for the country. Turkmenistan attaches great importance to the creation and expansion of its railway infrastructure, which meets the highest modern standards. Today, the railway system of Turkmenistan covers more than 2,000 kilometres. In recent years two new railways were constructed and a third is under way, which has increased the size of the system by nearly 500 kilometres. The country has become a vital part of the common international transport system. The Trans- Asiatic Railway has created a steel variant of the ancient Silk Road, and this connects Turkmenistan with the countries of Europe and the Asian continent and promotes social and economic development. Turkmenistan attaches great importance to social protection. Ensuring dignified living standards, security, rights and freedoms of citizens and strengthening the legal basis of society is our internal policy. During the entire transition period, the President and Government worked to provide social support to the population. Since 1993 they have given to their citizens gas, electricity, water, salt, health services and education free of charge. There is a large-scale housing construction programme. Citizens are guaranteed ownership of comfortable well-designed homes on financially attractive terms, with loans extending over a 15-year period and the future homeowner’s employer paying 50 per cent of the costs. Thanks to free education and good access, the country has a high level of education and literacy. Turkmenistan has achieved success in other areas, in particular the protection of the rights of children and the defence of their interests. This is a clear confirmation of our tireless fulfilment of our obligations under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Working with the United Nations Children’s Fund, in 2000 we successfully implemented a programme for the protection of mothers and children, the comprehensive development of children and the promotion and well-being of the youth. The country has achieved wide immunization coverage, which has led to a significant reduction in infectious diseases among children. A lot of work is being carried out in the areas of maternal and child health, education and social protection. In Turkmenistan, we are the fourth country in the world to be recognized by the United Nations as a State that has introduced universal iodization of salt in accordance with accepted international standards. In this connection it has been noted that our country consistently carries out its obligations, not only with regard to iodine deficiency but also with regard to the micronutrients that are needed for the development of a growing child’s body. For many centuries, our country has been a crossroads of routes between East and West and South and North and has been a key link in the Great Silk Road, which served as a road of peace and dialogue for cultures for almost one and a half thousand years. This led to the creation of a special spiritual atmosphere in our Turkmen land, and it is not accidental therefore that the national mentality of the Turkmens was generated in its essence as internationally oriented, seeing the individual as the supreme value, and rooted in openness, tolerance, respect for the culture of other peoples and natural peacefulness. The political system of the State recognizes the important role played by civil society. Public associations and professional and artistic unions play an active role in determining the economic, social and cultural policies of the State. Turkmenistan has historically respected religious freedom for its citizens and strictly respects generally recognized international norms and principles in the area of freedom of worship. As a result, more than 100 religious organizations are registered in Turkmenistan. The State guarantees the freedom of religion and belief, the equality of faiths before the law and the right of everyone independently to determine his or her relationship to religion. Turkmenistan recognizes the primacy of universally recognized norms of international law and has joined or ratified the fundamental international instruments in the area of human rights. An important 34 measure in this area has been Turkmenistan’s declaration of its status of a permanently neutral State, and this has been approved by the General Assembly. Turkmenistan has assumed its international obligations in that connection and has fulfilled them over the past 10 years. These obligations are incorporated in the constitutional laws on the neutrality of Turkmenistan and on its international obligations in the field of human rights. In 1999 we abolished the death penalty. Turkmenistan has adopted specific political, economic and social measures for the protection of the rights of refugees, who arrived in our country between 1991 and 1997. During this period, about 20,000 refugees from Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Armenia and other countries arrived to Turkmenistan. Under the decree of the President of Turkmenistan, more than 16,000 of them received citizenship or residence permits. We welcome efforts of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, aimed at strengthening the United Nations. We are grateful to the United Nations, its Secretariat, its specialized agencies such as the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United Nations Population Fund, the World Health Organization and others, who have coordinated and provided invaluable assistance to the development of our State. Turkmenistan along with many other States has high hopes in the United Nations and calls for its strengthening and the broadening of its role in the world.Palau warmly congratulates the President on his election to the presidency of the Assembly and assures him of Palau’s full support and cooperation. We pay tribute to his predecessor, Jean Ping of the Gabonese Republic, for his effective leadership. At last week’s historic summit, our leaders created an agenda for the world. It is our task to undertake concrete measures to advance that agenda. While the outcome document may not have addressed every issue of importance in a manner that is satisfactory to all, it is inarguably an excellent starting point for the hard work that now lies before us. We must think of it as a floor, rather than a ceiling, for our efforts. Palau has much to offer and much to gain from a stronger United Nations. We are a new country, this year celebrating our eleventh anniversary as an independent nation and as a Member of the United Nations. As Palau takes its place among the community of nations, a major concern is the development that will enable us to stand on our own. In particular, Palau regards the capacity-building expertise of the United Nations and its agencies as central to these efforts. As the Secretary-General stated earlier this year in his report “In larger freedom”, “one of the great challenges of the new millennium is to insure that all States are strong enough to meet the many challenges they face” (A/59/2005, para. 19). He went on to say, “no country, weak or strong, can realize prosperity in a vacuum” (ibid., para. 24). I fear that just such a vacuum exists in many small island developing States and that Palau is one of them. Not a single United Nations representative can be found in Palau to assist the country in moving forward. The United Nations flag does not fly there. So when a youngster wants to know whether a capacity- building internship or scholarship might be available, there is no one to ask. And when a local environmentalist wants to know whether a Global Environmental Facility Small Grant might be available to assist in the preservation of an endangered species 26 that is important to the whole world, there is no one to help in submitting an application. In like manner, when Palau does its part in ratifying an international agreement, thus accepting the obligation to render complex reports to an international agency, there is no one to help. The United Nations has attempted to fill this vacuum through the creation of regional and subregional centres, which are quite distant from Palau’s shores. While arguably well intentioned, this tactic has failed to provide Palau with the capacity- building required and has, similarly, prevented the world from truly understanding Palau’s needs and aspirations. In this sense, these regional and subregional centres merely replicate the colonial regimes, which the Pacific islands have thrown off — distant capitals making decisions about far-flung provinces. To Palau, strengthening the United Nations means strengthening its marginalized Members. Palau has willingly taken its place as a responsible member of the international community. Heeding the Secretary-General’s call to action, Palau this year proudly deployed a contingent of police peacekeepers, who now serve in East Timor. And in response to the Secretary-General’s stated desire to develop better gender balance in these missions, Palau’s contingent is entirely female. When the world develops important conventions, often with burdensome reporting requirements, Palau steps up and signs them, as was the case last week when Palau’s President Remengesau signed the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. And when natural disasters strike, Palau responds willingly, making significant financial contributions to remit suffering caused by the tsunami and by Hurricane Katrina. I submit that in both of these cases, Palau’s contributions were, on a per capita basis, among the highest in the world. Palau asks for very little. But now it asks for help, and that help should be forthcoming. As our President Remengesau stated in the Assembly’s 4th meeting, last week, in his address to the world summit: “It is therefore time for the international community, and the United Nations as its representative, to begin to move beyond studies that recognize past failures to achieve sustainable development in our island nations, and to move aggressively forward and to establish a specific programme agenda that recognizes our unique smallness, that appreciates our distinctive diversity, and that respects our island cultures as equal to those in other nations of this world.” Palau’s development challenges are different from those of many of our friends around the world who have taken this podium. Hunger is not an issue at present in paradise. But the challenges that confront the small island nations of the Pacific may ultimately be every bit as devastating as famine. Climate change and sea-level rise threaten to obliterate our islands. The very poignant and moving statement of His Excellency Anote Tong, Beretitenti of the Republic of Kiribati at the 15th meeting last week contained a chilling preview of what the unchecked scourge of carbon emissions could mean to all of the countries in the Pacific, and of course to many other oceans of the world. The President acknowledged that the Government of Kiribati needed now “to seriously consider the option of having to relocate our peoples when necessary”. In this understated Pacific way, the President forces us all to confront a world where whole countries simply disappear from the globe. Is there a more compelling call to action than that? The period leading up to such a catastrophe is upon us. Palau must rely on the maintenance of its extraordinary reefs and waters and its unparalleled biodiversity to attract tourists. Without these assets, it will be unable to develop a sustainable economy and to create jobs, which will allow its children to live and work in their homeland. The other pillar of Palau’s development is its fisheries. For countless generations, our people have relied on their waters for their sustenance. Now, foreign fishing fleets, which have denuded the waters proximate to their own harbours, have come to the Pacific and threaten to do the same. The very food chain is threatened by new fishing practices that, though in their infancy, have begun to damage Pacific seamounts in ways that the scientific community deems alarming. It is for this reason that Palau has called for a moratorium on deep sea bottom trawling until the scientific community can gauge the long-term impact of that practice. We renew that call today and applaud Costa Rica for its leadership on this important issue. We take this opportunity and we are grateful for this opportunity to commend Palau’s bilateral partners and friends who have overcome our new nation’s 27 remoteness to become involved and knowledgeable about our needs and aspirations. The United States has provided in-country diplomatic representation and years of support for our vital democracy. Japan has also provided in-country diplomatic representation and invaluable assistance. Like the United States, Japan has been steadily involved in Palau’s development, and I would submit that this special familiarity with Palau’s people has enhanced Japan and the United States every bit as much as it has aided Palau. Palau has been disappointed by the failure of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session to accomplish Security Council reform, particularly because Japan’s deep knowledge of our region would inform Council members who have less familiarity with the situation of the Pacific islands. We supported and continue to support therefore the Group of Four resolution and hope that the sixtieth General Assembly will finish this critical work that was begun last year. A third steady supporter of Palau’s development has been the Republic of China on Taiwan. We continue to assert that the world would be benefited by Taiwan’s membership in this august body. This year Palau was a sponsor of a resolution calling for a proactive role for the United Nations in addressing the rising tensions in the Taiwan Strait. We regret that the debate on that important resolution was foreshortened in the General Committee and that we were prevented from expressing our views on this topic; however we are glad that we have an opportunity to do that now. The people of the Pacific, and the Pacific island nations themselves, are under-represented in the Secretariat and in the governing bodies, commissions and tribunals of the world. Our cohesive and effective regional group, the Pacific Islands Forum, is most fortunate in having Australia and New Zealand among us. But it is time, we submit, for the new island nations to take a more active role and to share their unique and graceful Pacific way with the rest of the world. It is quite possible, I submit, that the islands are marginalized in part by the irrational composition of the regional groups. Strengthening the United Nations should include a realignment of the groups to better reflect the proliferation of Pacific countries, which has occurred in the last 20 years, and the actual geography of the world. This would allow the island nations to compete more effectively for seats on major bodies. For this reason, Palau suggests the reform of the system and the creation of an East Asia and Pacific Group and that this group include, of course with their consent, our friends in Australia and New Zealand.Today, I would like to begin by congratulating the founding nations and all those present here today as we celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations, which can be proud of so many great accomplishments. Since its foundation in 1945, the United Nations has helped to negotiate an end to over 170 regional conflicts and has deployed more than 35 peacekeeping missions. It is leading international efforts to clear land mines from former zones of warfare. It has provided aid to tens of millions of refugees fleeing war, famine and persecution. It has focused the world’s attention on issues of human rights. It provides annual disbursements that amount to $10 billion per year for various development programmes. It has made safe drinking water available to 1.3 billion people during the last decade. It has helped to eradicate smallpox from the globe, with polio set to follow soon. It has helped to reduce world child mortality rates by half since 1960. It has improved education in the developing countries, where 60 per cent of adults can now read and write. It provides over 2 million tons of food to victims of emergencies every year. About 30 million people in 36 different countries benefited from such assistance in 2004 alone. And it has hosted a variety of significant events, such as the Rio Conference on Environment and Development, which resulted in important treaties on biodiversity and climate change. The vast majority of the United Nations employees over the years have been guided by a profound sense of duty. I would like to single out those responsible and dedicated workers who provide humanitarian assistance in the poorest regions of the globe, in zones of conflict, and in places that have been affected by natural disasters. We should pay tribute to all those who have lost their lives in the service of humanity, like the lamented Sergio Vieiro de Mello, 36 who was killed while leading the United Nations work in Iraq. The world needs the United Nations. It needs the United Nations today as much as it did 60 years ago. We need a United Nations that is more and more efficient in dealing with global challenges and able to act efficiently to prevent such horrors as the genocide in Rwanda, the ethnic cleansing in the Balkans, and the ongoing human tragedy in the Darfur region of the Sudan. While such values and principles as national sovereignty, non-intervention and self-determination lie at the very core of relations between the United Nations Member States, we also have to recognize our collective responsibility to protect innocent civilians from wide-scale abuse and suffering. It is our duty to arrive at a common understanding of that responsibility to protect so that the international community can act efficiently to avert future mass killings and crimes against humanity. I encourage those United Nations Member States that have not yet done so to ratify the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and to support the Court’s endeavours to bring war criminals to justice. When the United Nations was created, my country, Latvia, was an occupied country and had no say in the rules that govern the Organization. It was therefore a particular honour that the President of Latvia was chosen as a Special Envoy of the Secretary- General for promoting reforms within the United Nations during the past six months. I am delighted that, in some aspects, we have succeeded in reaching a broad consensus, as for instance on the necessity of creating a peacebuilding commission. However, we still do not have a common understanding regarding many other reforms that need to be carried out. It is our shared responsibility to arrive at such an understanding soon. As we work to strengthen the United Nations, we should ensure better cooperation and practices and avoid duplication of effort. Latvia strongly supports the decision to establish a Human Rights Council, which recognizes human rights as a priority on the United Nations agenda. I therefore encourage delegations to work with vigour to ensure the smooth transformation of the Human Rights Commission into a council and to set the highest standards for its future members. A vital role in the realization of those standards will be played by the High Commissioner for Human Rights. I wish to confirm Latvia’s support for the Commissioner and her Office, and welcome the decision to allocate a larger share of the United Nations regular budget to that important aspect of its work. My country fully supports the management reforms of the United Nations administration that have been put forth by the Secretary-General. The reforms would afford the Secretary-General greater authority within certain fields of the United Nations activities, as well as greater responsibilities. The reforms would also contribute to the transparency and professionalism of the Secretariat, which has been justly criticized for serious deficiencies in its work. I am pleased that the United Nations leadership is willing to propose viable changes for improving the operations of the Secretariat. It is now up to the Member States to arrive at a consensus upon those proposed measures. Latvia has consistently endorsed reform of the Security Council in order to render it more effective and representative. We believe that the Security Council should be enlarged to incorporate new permanent seats without veto rights. We also believe that the permanent members of the Security Council should refrain from using the veto in cases of genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. That promises to be one of the most difficult issues to resolve, but we should nevertheless not abandon our efforts to reach a feasible accord by the end of this year. The Secretary-General has highlighted the linkage between security and development. The commitments he outlines are designed to advance the realization of the Millennium Development Goals, which, if achieved by 2015, would mark a genuine turn of the tide in our common struggle against poverty and disease. The comprehensive package agreed at the G-8 Gleneagles summit in July is an important milestone in helping Africa to eradicate extreme poverty, combat AIDS and malaria, and ensure that every child receives a primary education. We must now make sure that what was agreed at Gleneagles, including a doubling of aid by 2010 and the writing off of billions of dollars in debt, will be delivered. I would also like to highlight the necessity of achieving gender equality, which includes universal access to reproductive health information and services by 2015. That was the central goal of the agreements that were reached at the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo in 1994. Our 37 countries must strengthen girls’ access to both primary and secondary education so that they become less subject to early forced marriages and economic exploitation. Girls must be made safe from genital mutilation. Girls and women must be guaranteed sexual and reproductive rights and protection against HIV/AIDS and other diseases. There is no excuse for half a million women dying each year of pregnancy- related causes that are entirely preventable. The need for continued development concerns almost all regions in the world, including Eastern Europe, which has experienced momentous changes since the fall of the iron curtain in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Thirteen years ago, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) established an office in Latvia to facilitate the country’s development and improve people’s lives. Its mandate in Latvia will conclude at the end of this year, and I take this opportunity to express Latvia’s gratitude for the invaluable assistance that UNDP has provided to my country over these 13 years. Today, Latvia, as a full State member of the European Union, has become a net contributor of aid for achieving the Millennium Development Goals. We know that, without the promotion of good governance at all levels, sound macroeconomic policies and a concerted fight against corruption, the Goals will not be reached. Latvia stands ready to share its experience of transition to democratic rule and a free market economy, as it has done and will continue to do with countries in transition in Eastern Europe and the Caucasus. We welcome the initiative of establishing a democracy fund to assist all committed countries in their efforts to consolidate democratic political systems. Recognizing the opportunities that derive from the use of modern technologies in the field of information and communications, Latvia has been actively involved in the preparations for the World Summit on the Information Society, which will be held in Tunis this November. We hope that the Summit will provide unprecedented opportunities for strengthening cooperation among Governments, civil society and the private sector in promoting the use of information and communication technologies and generating knowledge societies. A major step forward is our unequivocal condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. My own country, Latvia, regained its freedom through peaceful and non-violent means. We triumphed due to our firm belief in historical justice, along with a great deal of persistence, patience and hope. Latvia welcomes the Secretary-General’s counter- terrorism strategy. We need to arrive at a comprehensive convention on international terrorism, which would provide a legal framework for international cooperation in combating that modern- day scourge of humanity. The war against terrorism will be won only if it is fought while respecting basic human rights and remembering humanistic ethics. I express my profound disappointment that we could not achieve any consensus on disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Progress in that area is more urgently needed than ever. I therefore encourage every United Nations Member State to act responsibly and in good faith in the pursuit of those goals. Since the previous session of the General Assembly a year ago, the world has experienced natural disasters of an unprecedented scale of destruction. We have just had Hurricane Katrina, and are still getting over the terrible tsunami last year in South-East Asia. The hard lessons of those crises must be learned in order to prepare for future emergencies. While there is nothing we can do to prevent earthquakes and tsunamis, scientists have warned us for years that our continued dependence on and increasing consumption of fossil fuels is generating greenhouse gas emissions that are causing disruptive climate changes. Unless we diversify our sources of energy, we can expect to see more devastating hurricanes and floods in some parts of the world, along with drought and desertification in others. The challenges that our nations face are formidable, and we will be able to overcome them only by working together. As we prepare to implement the decisions we have made at this gathering, I wish us all the foresight and the courage to uphold the higher interest of the common good over narrow, short-term, local concerns. The future of our peoples depends on us.Allow me, Sir, to express the congratulations of the Government of Panama on your election to preside over this historic session of the General Assembly. I would like to congratulate warmly the Secretary-General for the dedicated manner in which he has undertaken the difficult task of reforming the United Nations so as to ensure that it will be able to address the challenges of the twenty-first century. I wish to express my special thanks in particular to the outgoing President of the General Assembly, Mr. Jean Ping, for his efforts in leading the consultations and reflections in order to attain agreement and, in particular, for placing his trust in the delegation of Panama in order to facilitate this process. The United Nations was conceived on a fundamental premise, that of the legal equality of States, which at the time was more of an aspiration than a reality. However, much progress has been made on the path towards building a world where the power of reason, justice and dialogue settle disputes between nations and not military or economic power. My country can confirm that the United Nations and the international community have created effective instruments and institutions to ensure that equality prevails over the deep divide between the industrialized countries and the developing countries. Panama has gained full control of its territory and recovered the Canal thanks to its visionary leaders, but also to a large extent due to the implementation of the principles of international law that the United Nations has staunchly defended and through the support of the international community. Panama can never remain indifferent to the destiny of the Organization. As one of the signatories of the Charter and beneficiary of its institutions, Panama understands the need to adapt the Organization to the reality of our time. The formulas used for bringing this adaptation about must focus on increased participation of States in the Organization’s decisions and must aim at the full legal equality of all States, an aspiration that has yet to become a reality, but which, nevertheless, remains the mainstay of the United Nations. We cannot afford to delay in bringing about a radical change in the rules that currently govern economic relations among States, because, while in the United Nations we are slowly progressing towards equality and agreement, the world is rushing towards an abyss of inequality and disagreement. Despite the efforts undertaken by a number of the least developed countries to adapt their institutions to models that were supposed to help reduce inequalities, practice has shown that there is no one-size-fits-all solution that can be applied across the board to all countries. Indeed, the application of rigid solutions has contributed rather to a further widening of the gap between countries. Amid such uncertainty concerning our public development policies, unforeseeable events — natural disasters, epidemics and, currently, the rising price of oil, an indispensable driver of production and 15 growth — have completely altered the balance of foreign and domestic affairs. Moreover, it is unclear whether the negative impact those events have had on our economies will vanish automatically once the phenomena that have created them disappear. Indeed, it appears that we are caught in a vicious and hopeless circle: the differences that have led us to accept urgent changes have, in turn, created more difference and greater resentment in the least developed countries, with more failed States and therefore greater insecurity in the global village. The price of oil for non-producing countries has further deepened that divide, as it takes away from the resources necessary for their development. To give an example, over the past three years the cost of net imports of oil for Panama has shown a 250 per cent increase. That is the situation for the majority of the countries in our region, as well as for those in other continents, with very few exceptions. Countries like ours that are net importers of oil have to produce more in order to export more and thereby to be able to import the same number of barrels of oil. Rising oil prices are due to the sharp increase in demand by the major consumers, which have not adopted effective policies to reduce their dependency on hydrocarbons. Even more serious is the fact that fuel prices have risen so dramatically and have wreaked such havoc in a number of countries they threaten to create political instability and provoke economic crises. It is only with the technical and financial cooperation of developed countries — in particular in the field of energy — that we can achieve the transfer of technologies that can help us to produce cleaner and cheaper energy. As a signatory to the Kyoto Protocol, Panama has submitted projects with clearly identified requests for financing that deserve to be supported by multilateral funding institutions and by those countries that cause the greatest pollution. Energy dependency is compounded by the difficulties that countries face in importing technology and holding on to their human resources, in particular the most qualified among them. Workers that have migrated to richer countries send home financial remittances that can temporarily supplement the income generated by our national economies but that, in the long term, prevent us from exploiting our most important asset — our most highly qualified human resources. Those workers contribute to the innovative growth that our nations require. The result is the accumulation of innovative capital and productive labour in the most developed countries, with a corresponding impoverishment of countries most in need of those resources, generating yet greater divergence and more inequalities. In other words, the exodus of human capital, while providing a source of currency in the short term hampers our countries’ long- term development. Our countries must be able to compete even in the absence of a level playing field. We must as a priority put an end to tariff barriers to trade, which prevent developing countries from putting their products on the markets of rich countries and from having access to better technology, not only productive but also information technology. As a result of the widening gap with regard to access to technology, our countries have fallen behind in their efforts to advance and to ensure the well-being of their people. Moreover, it has served to perpetuate the differences in living conditions between developed countries and those that are still struggling to emerge from underdevelopment. The situation is similar with regard to the obstacles that impede access to basic medicines to improve public health in areas as sensitive as AIDS and malaria. Those obstacles take the form of patents that grant quasi-monopolistic powers to the pharmaceutical companies that produce those medicines. In addition, the already devastating differences that exist between States are even greater than the statistics currently show, using simplistic and rigid criteria such as per capita income, which does not accurately reflect reality. Forty per cent of the Panamanian population lives below the poverty line, but we are nevertheless statistically designated as a medium- to high-income country and therefore our access to external aid is very limited. Figures provide only a lifeless snapshot of a country. Behind that, or perhaps in spite of that, there is a human reality: that of men, women and children who suffer from hunger and constraints. Those people are not even aware of the existence of the United Nations, but they are fully entitled to the benefits of modernity. Instead, their way of life is being relentlessly handed down from one generation to the next. 16 The international community has demonstrated great resolve in the fight against terrorism and insecurity and it is prepared to make even further sacrifices, if necessary. However, it is time to recognize that hunger and poverty also undermine the internal security of our countries and endanger democracy. It appears that the world only responds to headlines, but every day poor countries suffer from misfortunes and constraints that do not produce headlines for the tragic reason that the international community seems indifferent in some cases or has quite simply resigned itself to them. There is no point in asking a developing country to rectify so many deficiencies within a reasonable time frame if it cannot even have access to funds on more favourable and predictable terms than those currently being offered by the international capital market. Improving the quality of life of our citizens — a goal that the United Nations has set itself — depends on the increasing use of physical and financial capital, as well as the national labour force, in activities that generate growth and promote innovation. The material well-being of our societies will be achieved when more people work and each of those workers is more productive. Our countries are not begging for favours. What we are demanding is a more level playing field. The markets of industrialized countries are blocked by protectionist tariffs and by non-tariff barriers, which impede access to them by the rest of the world. The most developed countries pursue agricultural policies that seriously exacerbate poverty in developing countries. For one thing, their domestic production receives billions of dollars in subsidies. The surplus thus created is then dumped on world markets at prices that significantly reduce the income of the traditional exporting countries. Therefore Panama welcomes the commitment of the United States of America, announced last week from this very rostrum by its President, to eliminate all subsidies that — as he himself recognized — have created poverty in many countries. If all those countries that subsidize their products to the detriment of free trade were to adopt here a similar commitment and to implement it swiftly, then the United Nations would have solid grounds to celebrate its sixtieth anniversary as an historic and highly significant occasion. For its part, Panama reiterates today that the canal linking the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans will remain open and secure, demonstrating the high degree of efficiency to which the international community is accustomed. We have analysed the needs of international trade and, aware of Panama’s role in the era of globalization, we shall take a definitive decision on the canal’s extension through a national referendum. Our countries should not be condemned to stagger from one crisis to the next. By emphasizing the need to combat the alarming levels of poverty and abject poverty, humankind’s collective conscience will emerge in favour of development and progress. This Organization was created at the end of the cruelest war of all times in order to protect humankind from the horrors of a similar conflict and to ensure that peace and harmony would prevail throughout the world. Panama welcomes the progress that has been made towards that goal and rejects any attempt to delay the application of peaceful solutions to regions that continue to suffer a high level of political tension that seriously endangers peace. That is our vision of the inequalities of a society founded on the principles of the twentieth century, and an expression of cautious optimism about the opportunities to blaze a new trail for the benefit of our people, who want to leave their fears behind and to attain the dreams that all are entitled to simply by virtue of being alive.On behalf of the Republic of Somalia I am very pleased to address this summit here in New York marking the sixtieth anniversary of United Nations and the fifth anniversary of the Millennium Summit, which agreed on a number of Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) to reduce poverty by 50 per cent by the year 2015. We believe that the eight MDGs are desirable and lofty ones, and we fully endorse them. Unfortunately, given the circumstances of conflict in Somalia, we are unlikely to attain all of them. However, we are confident that some progress will certainly be made. With regard to the reform of the United Nations, Somalia has committed itself to the position taken by the African Union (AU) at Sirte, Libya. I would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm Somaliaís appreciation for, and approval of, the United Nations 60 years of progressive work to maintain peace while concurrently achieving incremental progress towards a more equitable and liveable world. The history of the United Nations involvement in Somalia is a good example of its invaluable role in helping the emerging nations of the world. Despite momentary setbacks, the United Nations has taken a laudable role at each juncture of Somaliaís history, from colonialism to independence and throughout our nationhood. Nothing better demonstrates the importance of the United Nations than the nurturing role it played during the sad days of our 15-year-long civil war. While assisting the destitute and providing safe sanctuary for an exodus of Somali refugees to neighbouring countries and elsewhere, the United Nations had the political will to invoke the morally compelling doctrine of humanitarian intervention, thereby successfully reversing a calamitous famine that could potentially have wiped out millions of Somalis. Moreover, during the two years that the Somalia National Reconciliation Conference met at Nairobi, Kenya, the United Nations played a helpful role in successfully finding a lasting and comprehensive settlement to Somalia's political crisis. The current Transitional Federal Government of Somalia is the outcome of that political settlement. Allow me to restate here Somaliaís indebtedness and profound appreciation to those who selflessly helped us during the Somali National Reconciliation Conference, as well as to those who continue to help us in our current pursuit of a peaceful and well-governed Somalia. Among others, special gratitude goes to the African Union, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, the League of Arab States and the European Union, as well as to the Government of Kenya, for patiently and generously hosting and paying for our long peace process. 25 With regard to relocating to Somalia, the nascent Transitional Federal Government could not just sit by and wait until the international community acted. It therefore took the daring unilateral initiative, on 13 June 2005, to relocate itself from Nairobi to Somalia with minimal help. To the dismay of most sceptics, the massive relocation scheme was completed without any incident. The entire Government is now on Somali soil. It is my judgement that we owe a status report to those who earnestly wanted to witness the rise of Somalia from the ashes. That report will also be useful to those who may continue to doubt the effectiveness of the Transitional Federal Government in extricating Somalia from its current predicament of chaos and lawlessness. The Government has continued to tackle the daunting tasks inside Somalia at a much faster pace than the international community could have anticipated. What is significant here is that the Transitional Federal Government is being helped by a hidden hand that most observers and political analysts of Somalia have typically regarded as a wild card or a totally incalculable factor. They have never clearly understood the importance of correctly accounting for the level of popular support that the new Somali Government enjoyed upon relocating to Somalia. The high popularity of the Transitional Federal Government within Somalia turned out to be so strong that the Government owes its very survival to the admiration and active support it receives from the local population. That factor alone has proven to be more crucial to the survival of the Transitional Federal Government than any other form of assistance. With the support of its citizens, the new Government has already proceeded to consolidate the gains and the outcome of the reconciliation process, with the aim of addressing the formidable expectations of the Somali people. As a result, I can confidently report to the Assembly today that our efforts at reclaiming Somalia from its lawlessness are already under way and have already produced concrete results on the ground. The Government has made phenomenal progress in the little more than three months since its relocation. Progress has been made in the recruitment and training of a modest security force comprised of personnel from all of Somaliaís regions; in the extension of State authority over much of Somalia; in winning the allegiance and support of regional leaders and the Somali public at large; in earning and assuming the moral leadership of the nation through responsible governance and peaceful means; and in creating overarching political momentum that powerfully augurs for the sure attainment of durable peace and continuity in Somalia. Contrary to the fears some may have had, therefore, the advent of the Transitional Federal Government did not turn out to be some kind of cruel hoax or yet another false start for Somalia. The sensible actions undertaken by the new Government inside Somalia have already established its legitimacy and the kind of moral leadership it enjoys inside Somalia. The Government is serious and committed to the basic social contract it made with its citizens, namely, to guarantee peace and security to its people in return for the allegiance they have already conferred upon their Government. There is clearly a unique chance for the Transitional Federal Government to restore normalcy, legitimacy and lasting peace to Somalia. Regrettably, however, the situation is not tenable in the long term. The challenges that are hampering the Governmentís efforts on the ground are all related to the indifference of the international community. We believe that the international community has a moral obligation to help the new Somali Government in its quest for peace, stability, territorial integrity and unity in the country in a manner consistent with the United Nations Charter. Now is the time when the international community must assist Somalia in a strong and decisive manner by addressing the following three challenges. One of the challenges for the new Government is that most of the international community has yet to honour its obligations with regard to ensuring a peaceful and well-governed Somalia. Even much of its initial cheerful pledges to provide material and financial support to the Government have yet to reach us. Consequently, its actual role in our efforts on the ground remain very confusing to us. We do not understand the new ambivalence of the international community, which seems to have moderated its initial enthusiasm to offer Somalia a consolidated rapid assistance programme. In order to address that situation, the international community must help Somalia by providing the necessary financial and political support for the rapid rehabilitation of infrastructures to house the new 26 Government, to provide for budgetary and other administrative expenditures, and to tackle the security issues such as recruiting a national police force, pacification programmes and the implementation of demobilization, disarmament and reintegration programmes. Another puzzling and more serious problem for the new Government of Somalia is the United Nations arms embargo on Somalia. The embargo directly undermines the Governmentís genuine efforts to form a national security force ó to which it has an inherent right in order to protect the public and keep the peace by enforcing law and order throughout Somalia. In addition, it discourages friendly countries that are willing to offer help to Somalia from doing so, especially in the areas of security and the rule of law. Moreover, the embargo has delayed the formal deployment of the African peace support mission in Somalia, whose mandate is to protect the Government and its premises during its capacity-building stage as well as to help the Government form and train national security forces. It does not make sense to help Somalis reach a comprehensive political settlement of their long conflict while at the same time denying them the ability to build the institutions through which they can overcome lawlessness in their country. With the creation of the new Government and its relocation to Somalia, the political conditions and realities that prompted the United Nations to impose an arms embargo no longer prevail. Whose interests and purposes does the embargo continue to serve now that there is a legitimate Government functioning in Somalia? In the same vein, in reflecting on the absurd position of a nation or Government whose capacity to institute its own law enforcement bodies is neutralized, one wonders what the political or moral relevance of keeping Somalia handcuffed by the old embargo can possibly be? To address that predicament we call on the Security Council to assist the efforts of the Transitional Federal Government to stabilize the country by reviewing the merits of the arms embargo on Somalia and promptly lifting it. Finally, the disintegration of the State and the absence of law and order have led to widespread criminal activity by individuals and groups for financial gain, including by war profiteers and terrorists. Those individuals and groups believe that the status quo in Somalia favours them, and they will therefore do whatever they can to resist the return of law and order to Somalia, including by renewing active hostilities. To address that possible scenario the United Nations must establish punitive and targeted sanctions against those who try to spoil Somaliaís chance for lasting peace by undermining the ongoing efforts to pacify the country and by frustrating the effectiveness of the Government in upholding the primacy of the rule of law. The cost of the prolonged Somali civil war is enormous in terms of its direct social, economic, political and environmental impacts. There is now clearly a rare chance for my country to overcome those negative impacts. The performance of the Transitional Federal Government on the ground and the overall political environment in Somalia are very promising. Both Africa and the region have been very forthcoming in helping Somalia. It is imperative that the rest of the international community extend its help to Somalia by adopting the three proposals just outlined, thereby effectively ending the plight of Somalia once and for all. Allow me here to make my personal appeal to the world summit not to leave Somalia out in the cold in this crucial period of its pacification and nation- building. While many of the countries of the world are struggling to meet their Millennium Development Goals, Somalia is struggling to stand on its feet. It would be grave negligence on the part of the international community if it fails to fulfil its obligations towards Somalia in a timely and decisive manner.The people of Tuvalu, on whose behalf I have the honour to speak, join me in extending our warmest congratulations to the United Nations on the occasion of its sixtieth anniversary. I wish to put on record our profound gratitude to every single member of this great body for the immense achievements of the United Nations. The Organization’s noble values and principles have indeed ensured that even small and isolated nations such as Tuvalu can enjoy the goals of self-determination and statehood with dignity and hope. We are proud to be a member of this great family of Nations. We also wish to join others in congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency, and to assure you of our full support and cooperation. Last week the world — our families and our children — heard from us that the time for stating principles and defining problems and actions on the complex challenges of development, security and human rights has long passed. It is now time to take action. But how the rhetoric gets translated into actions to improve standards of living for each nation, and for our families, for women and children in our communities and villages, in an equitable and fair manner, is now the main challenge. The United Nations must play the central role in managing that process. Tuvalu is greatly encouraged by the prevailing goodwill to fulfil the many international development targets. The commitments made, by the European Union and others, to meet the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product for official development assistance is very welcome. We also welcome new and innovative initiatives on financing and good governance, including the global Democracy Fund, the French initiative and others. The commitment of the United States of America to its Millennium Challenge Account initiative is also very welcome. As a small island developing State and a least developed country which has consistently taken a prudent and responsible approach to its own national development, Tuvalu is very encouraged, in particular, by the renewed recognition by the international community of the special vulnerabilities of small island developing States, of the needs of least developed countries and of the imperative to address them. Increased international cooperation to ensure the full and effective implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for small island developing States and the Brussels Programme of Action, particularly with regard to the provision of adequate financing, capacity- building and technology development and transfer, is critical to supporting the poverty reduction and sustainable development efforts of the least developed countries and small island developing States like Tuvalu. There is now a clear need to establish clear vessels of connectivity from international commitments to national strategies, plans and actions on the ground. In this regard, I am pleased to announce the launch, last Friday here in New York, of Te Kakeega II — Tuvalu’s national sustainable development strategies for 2005-2015 — a commitment to action by the 10 Government and all stakeholders, including non- governmental organizations and island communities. We sincerely appreciate the support of our friends in New York, bilateral partners and United Nations agencies, and we look forward to working closely with the international community in advancing appropriate partnerships as a result of those strategies. In the same vein, the important role played by regional bodies, especially those in the Pacific region, such as the Council of Regional Organizations for the Pacific, in supporting national efforts ought to be given recognition and support. We therefore strongly support the remarks by Samoa and Papua New Guinea on the importance of regional arrangements, such as the Pacific Plan. Security challenges continue to create worldwide havoc, fear and uncertainty. Terrorist acts the world over, including the recent bombings in London and elsewhere have proven the continued existence of forces bent on undermining the United Nations founding goals of freedom, peace and security. They have also underscored the urgency with which we, the United Nations, must collectively combat these forces. Tuvalu is fully committed to joining the fight against international terrorism, as required by Security Council resolutions. But we would need to seek the assistance of the United Nations and the international community to help us fulfil the requirements, particularly on reporting, of these resolutions and of the international anti-terrorism conventions. The threat of the impact of climate change, sea level rise and variability on the entire global environment continues to be a matter of serious security concern to all. For small island and low-lying coastal countries like Tuvalu the situation is devastating, threatening lives, human rights and our long-term survival. The impacts are real and already happening. They demand urgent actions by the international community. As correctly underscored by the Secretary-General in his report, “In larger freedom”, “Without action, [small island developing States] will pay a bitter price for the actions of others” (A/59/2005, para. 60). There cannot be a more true assertion. While we are all deeply touched by the human loss and destruction suffered from Hurricane Katrina on the Gulf Coast of the United States of America three weeks ago, the world will be better advised to take such timely warnings seriously. Tuvalu strongly believes we must urgently address adaptation and mitigation actions against climate change in line with the objectives of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol targets to reduce greenhouse gases and advance the development and use of renewable sources of energy. On the latter subject, it would be remiss of Tuvalu not to again sincerely acknowledge the coming into force of the Kyoto Protocol early this year and to urge all industrialized countries who have not done so to ratify it as soon as possible. Not to do so will be to sign on Tuvalu’s death warrant. The time is also ripe to initiate dialogue on a more comprehensive approach for future actions against climate change where all major emitters of greenhouse gases will need to participate. The eleventh session of the Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held at Montreal in November, must advance decisions on critical issues on future actions against climate change. Unless actions are taken seriously, all efforts for development, security and human rights for those most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change will be severely compromised. We appeal to those with the capacity to do so to have a heart for islands like Tuvalu, as well as for the rest of mankind. On enhancing the relevancy and the role of the United Nations, we would like to reiterate our strong support for the reforms for the United Nations, in particular the expansion of the permanent membership and working methods of the Security Council. In this vein we also reiterate our support for the consideration of Japan, Germany, India and Brazil for permanent seats on an expanded Council. We strongly feel that the momentum so far achieved on the issue must be taken advantage of to finally resolve the proposed reforms by the end of December 2005, at the latest. We also believe more equitable representation of the developing countries for the non-permanent seats of the Council is vital and long overdue. Tuvalu recognizes the seriousness of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on the social and economic development and security of Tuvalu and other Pacific island countries. Given our exposure and the level of mobility of our communities, particularly our seafarers who serve on merchant ships worldwide, there is an 11 urgent need for assistance from the international community, such as that provided under the Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, to help us raise awareness in Tuvalu to combat the threats of the epidemic. We need technical and financial assistance for these efforts. In terms of natural resources, Tuvalu is really a big ocean, small island country. The Pacific Ocean that surrounds our islands provides the vital source of our livelihoods and economic and social development. Increasingly, however, we are becoming concerned with the real threats of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and of pollution to the oceans from waste, particularly from the trans-shipment of highly radioactive and toxic materials in our region. We would need to seek the understanding of the international community to help us save our oceans and support fully the Pacific Islands Regional Ocean Policy adopted in 2002. An important source of financial flows to developing countries, particularly also to small island developing nations such as Tuvalu, is migrant workers’ remittances from developed countries. Indeed remittances from our overseas workers, and particularly Tuvaluan seafarers serving abroad, provide a substantive source of income so vital for social and economic development in Tuvalu. Tuvalu fully supports the affording of urgent attention to the issue of migrant workers’ rights, including the maintenance of competency on international standards and migrant workers’ safety and security, in the international agenda, in order to ensure sustaining this vital source of capital for small island developing States. An issue of continuing concerns to Tuvalu is the question of the representation in the United Nations. Regrettably, this august body cannot be said to be universal without the rightful representation of the 23 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan. Tuvalu feels that recognizing the political and democratic developments in Taiwan, the active and responsible participation of Taiwan in world affairs, especially in trade, commerce, health, and international development, without representation in the United Nations is unjust and morally wrong. This state of affairs needs to be corrected. We seek a proper review by the United Nations of this important issue, as well as the escalation of tension in the Taiwan Strait following the enactment by the People’s Republic of China of its “anti-secession law”. In conclusion, we want to reiterate that efforts aimed at the sustainable development of small island developing States like Tuvalu, will be of no meaning unless the issue of climate change and sea level is addressed decisively, and with urgency. Tuvalu’s interest is not self serving. The more serious consequences of not acting now on climate change, as we are already witnessing the world over, will be felt everywhere. It is our fervent hope that out of this common house of our United Nations family, there will emerge better understanding and goodwill for the long lasting security and survival of Tuvalu and the whole world.Let me first welcome you, Sir, to your position. I know we will enjoy working with you, given our past experience. Let me also express our appreciation to the outgoing President for the leadership that he provided during the previous session. When the Millennium Summit was held in 2000, in another New York and another era and before unspeakable events overtook our agenda, the lack of universal economic development was the supreme challenge and security concern that we had. That is why the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were created. It took the commitment and firm belief of almost 200 of our world leaders to come up with simple, obvious, straightforward objectives, which I think can be best summed up by Amartya Sen’s eloquent formulation, “Development as freedom”. Five years later, I think these goals are still relevant and they are no less imperative. Pretending that anything less would do is, I think, disingenuous, dangerous and unfair. If, today, our focus is on global security, and we all clearly understand and see that the path to security passes through development, then we should recall Eleanor Roosevelt, who 60 years ago, working on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, stated that men in need were not free. Indeed, only with the realization of these Goals can we enable men to live in greater freedom. In Armenia, where our resources are very limited but the will of people is very strong, we have been experiencing good economic growth. In the past four or five years, we have indeed seen double-digit economic growth, and we understand that our biggest challenge today is to translate that high economic growth into progress in human development. Each year in Armenia we look forward to the publication of the Human Development Report because we see it as a sort of report card that shows how our country is doing. In the past four or five years we have been making steady progress. This year we placed eighty-third, ahead of all of our neighbours. While we should not underestimate this progress, on the other hand, we do not want to exaggerate it. We have to look at this index, at its promise, and see what problems we facing that we need to address and what gaps need to be filled. 22 First, we have to accelerate our efforts to reduce the level of poverty in our country. Societies are judged by the way they treat their most vulnerable. In Armenia, the poor are in the rural areas and we have to make sure that economic development can trickle out to our rural areas from the cities. For us, economic development is comprehensive rural development. It is our plan to identify those areas that can provide opportunity for rural people so that they can develop and unleash their capacity for production. Just as with the MDGs, there must be a partnership between rich and poor. In our case, we are trying to create such a partnership so that we reduce the numbers of poor in our country more rapidly. Secondly, we have to turn democracy into a tool for development. Democracy means not only elections. Democracy and democratic institutions are not simply ends for their own sake. They have to provide, and they will provide, a better environment for political and economic development. We think we need to create transparent, solid, open institutions so that we can limit the action of the elite, and create a level playing field for the entire population. We are pleased with the ranking that we have achieved. But we are satisfied only because we know we have achieved this against all odds: against our geography, against our history and against attempts in our region to isolate Armenia. Armenia is a small, landlocked country. We do not have the natural resources our neighbours have. It has become customary to say that our greatest natural resource is our population, and indeed it is. But let me say that, if we had the oil resources, we would have used those revenues to double our education budget, because we understand that education is development. Education creates dreams for our youth and provides the means to achieve them. If we had the oil revenues, we would double our social security budget, because we clearly see that there is a gap between the dreams of our people and the prospects of achieving them. If we had the oil revenues, we would double our efforts in the area of environmental protection, because that is the best investment a society can make. But one thing we would not do is to double our military budget. We will not create imaginary outside enemies to justify our own inaction and failures. We will not pretend that there are simplistic, fanatical solutions to complicated social and economic problems. In other words, we think the military option is not available as a tool in domestic and foreign policy. When it comes to regional conflicts, advocating military solutions is not only unrealistic but is also a clear manifestation of a patent lack of understanding of democracy, rule of law and human rights. The founders of this institution, the United Nations, clearly indicated and knew that security, development and human rights go hand in hand. But self-determination is a human right and the people of Nagorny Karabakh have aspired to it, fought for it and earned it. They had to face the aggression of a Government they did not choose, but they fought for self-determination and they earned it. It was a fight that was not of their choosing and the right they fought for was neither abstract nor excessive. What they want is what we all want, the right to live on their own land, in their own homes, in dignity, safety and security. The people of Karabakh have achieved that, and subsequently they have demonstrated to the world that they can sustain their de facto independence, that they can rule themselves, create democratic institutions and conduct elections. Countries like mine come to such gatherings and meetings with huge expectations, because we want to contribute, to participate and to be involved in the give and take. But, if you think that because I am the Minister for Foreign Affairs of what is obviously a small country, and frankly, an imperfect one, I do not have the right to expound on our common future, allow me for a moment to speak, not as a foreign minister, but as a citizen of the world. The prospect of United Nations reform is only the beginning of achieving the promise of a world Organization that would better resemble the realities of the current world. If we cannot find common ground, if we cannot agree to reform this institution today or tomorrow or next week or this year, I believe that one day we will have to do it. We cannot simply go on pretending that we do not know our history. We cannot go on pretending that the world has not changed. We cannot go on pretending that we do not understand that there are new realities. It is not 1945 any longer. Still, it is very encouraging that the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter — written three generations ago — remain valid, relevant and 23 significant today. That is because the spirit of San Francisco in 1945, and the global Charter that was forged there, were revolutionary. The Charter affirmed the obligation and accountability of one generation to another, of one State to another other, and that together, States can and must create a safer world. The formula that was worked out then to achieve those goals worked. Today, we need to rework that formula, reaffirming, first and foremost, our responsibility and accountability to our citizens and Governments, the responsibility of international institutions to their members and of States to each other. We need to democratize international relations and international institutions. We need fair, earned representation around the decision-making table. Earned representation: that is, countries that are committed to democracy, human rights and the rule of law should have the right to sit on the Human Rights Council; countries that are serious about social and economic development should occupy seats on the Economic and Social Council; and countries that are committed to world peace and security, that are serious about the dignity of the world community, should assume a leadership role in the world community. Those are not ambitious goals. It is only natural that our national interests will differ. That is why the United Nations must step in to fill the gap, enabling us to work together in exchange for commitment and action. It all boils down to our accountability to our children. What will we say to our children if we do not achieve the Millennium Development Goals in the next decade, when we are living in an era that has witnessed the creation of huge wealth in the world economy, but where half of the world’s population still lives in poverty, far from benefiting from the fruit of that growth? What if we, in our region, miss the opportunity to make peace and put war, its consequences and its legacy, behind us? How, then, are we going to be able to look our children in the face? What if we reject that chance to learn from our past, to come to terms with our history, if we refuse to take our common and joint responsibility to intervene and prevent conflict, letting Governments time and again commit torture, ethnic cleansing and genocide against their own populations? What will we then tell our children? When the United Nations was created 60 years ago, it gave the people of the world hope and faith in their leaders, in their future and in the lives of their children. Today, having witnessed the huge calamities and catastrophes, both man-made and natural, which have occurred recently, there is a clear need to restore the faith of the peoples of the world. Looking at the damage caused by last year’s Asian tsunami and the recent Hurricane Katrina, looking at the violence that is being perpetrated in Darfur and the carnage that we witnessed in London, we are questioning ourselves, our neighbours and our assumptions. The answer must be united momentum, united effort, united resources and united action by nations united. The United Nations can still be that answer.Before proceeding with my remarks, I wish to begin by indicating that my delegation fully subscribes to the statement delivered by the presidency of the European Union. At the outset, Sir, let me express my sincere congratulations to you on your election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly and my sincere gratitude to Mr. Jean Ping, President at the fifty-ninth session, for his tireless efforts during a very crucial year for the United Nations. With the end of the summit, we have entered a far more crucial phase, that of the follow-up and implementation of its outcome and the furtherance of the progress achieved, especially in terms of those targets which have been subject to an enforcement road 05-51226 11 map since the Millennium Summit. The realization of the content of the summit outcome document (resolution 60/1) in conjunction with reforming the United Nations, may very well decide the Organization’s relevance and standing in decades to come and with it the fate of our attempts to render effective multilateralism the cornerstone of international order. Beyond the wide spectrum of issues covered in the summit’s outcome document, we must not lose sight of those realities on which the United Nations must — and is expected to — remain primarily focused. For these, we must go back to the genesis of the Organization. In the wake of the Second World War, a vision emerged to establish a system of collective security and institutionalized mechanisms that would ensure the maximization of conflict prevention and the minimization of the duration and impact of a conflict. Not only has the new century inherited many of the challenges and problems of the previous one, but new scourges have emerged that jeopardize the legitimacy and the very existence of our system of collective security. These require an urgent response from the international community through an action- oriented strategy encompassing the appropriate institutional framework, appropriate decision-making mechanisms and the efficient implementation of our commitments. Fulfilling our pledges in a timely manner is not a responsibility applicable only to traditional security threats. Terrorism, transnational crime and many other security deficits require our full attention in the form of elaborating result-oriented action plans. Regarding, for instance, weapons of mass destruction, although we are aware of the inextricable link between disarmament and non-proliferation, we have not yet been able to strike the kind of balance that would allow us to pursue them equally and simultaneously. And while we have identified underdevelopment and poverty as key enemies of stability, this realization is not yet adequately reflected in our actions. The assessment of the current state of the world through the comprehensive report of the Secretary- General on the work of the Organization, which we have before us in document A/60/1, leads to the conclusion that long-standing conflicts, with all their ramifications, remain a primary source of concern for the international community. Africa is a prime example of this. Today more than ever, and rightly so, it remains at the core of our mobilization. Our endeavour to make a difference there in terms of conflict resolution, peacekeeping and peacebuilding and fighting poverty, underdevelopment and deadly diseases will be the litmus test of the effectiveness of our commitment to meet the Millennium Goals. The Middle East is another test case. In recent weeks it has been proven that reciprocal gestures have the capacity to construct common ground, even where that does not seem on the surface to exist. Israel’s withdrawal from Gaza and parts of the northern West Bank is an important development that should lead to the implementation of the Quartet’s road map. Israel’s paradigm of removing settlers is one to be followed by other occupying Powers using settlers as a means of warfare. Even though the security situation is still fragile, and even though the political negotiation might not always be moving forward, the parties are offered a closed course in the form of the road map, which has the potential to steadily lead to progress. Furthermore, we firmly believe that the gathering momentum would be aided by strict adherence to international law and international humanitarian law, including the 4 July 2004 advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on the construction of the barrier. Let me now turn to the Cyprus problem. Almost 18 months have elapsed since the April 2004 referenda on the Annan plan. Let me stress once more that in rejecting that plan the Greek Cypriots rejected neither finding a solution that would reunify Cyprus nor the urgency of achieving this. They rejected that particular plan because it did not provide for and could not bring about the reunification of the country, its society, its economy and its institutions. During this time we have not remained idle. Our priority has been to revisit the content, product and shortcomings of the last negotiation process which led to the referenda. Simultaneously, emphasis was placed on dispelling certain misconceptions that were solidified as a result of the last negotiation process. One such misconception was that our constant and keen pursuit of peace and of achieving the reunification of our country has been diminished or that we have come to terms with the unacceptable division of our country which was imposed in 1974 by the invasion and occupation of 37 per cent of our land. The second misconception concerns the role of the United Nations in offering and continuing its good offices mission mandated to the Secretary-General by  12 05-51226 the Security Council. The Secretary-General’s mandate for the good offices mission has not come to an end but has entered a new phase with the end of the referenda. Regardless of its level of activation at different times, this mission is an ongoing and sustained process. Through it we expect the Organization to broker a negotiated settlement without any arbitration. The active contribution of the European Union in this regard would be catalytic. Only an agreed settlement endorsed by the leadership of the two communities can be put to referenda. The timetable for seeking a solution should genuinely and exclusively be determined by the parameters of the Cyprus problem, and as such there should be no deadlines embedded in the process that are dictated by exogenous elements. We remain committed to holding negotiations under the umbrella of the United Nations and to working for the creation of those conditions that will render fruitful negotiations feasible. In this context we have been implementing substantial practical measures on the ground with the aim of building confidence and promoting the economic development of the Turkish Cypriots. We hope that enhancing cooperation between Greek and Turkish Cypriots will be conducive to making progress on different aspects of the Cyprus problem, especially the elements composing its humanitarian dimension such as the fate of missing persons and the welfare of those in enclaves. The divisive character of the most recent plan, which essentially led to its rejection, epitomized its remoteness from the essence of the problem. Another source of great concern is the apparent willingness of actors involved in the process to concede a disproportionately large number of politically driven demands at the expense of those principles that should govern the solution. It should be clarified that a settlement should be formulated on the basis of the concerns and expectations of the people of Cyprus as a whole and should not aim at accommodating the interests of foreign Powers on the island. The Cyprus problem is at a critical juncture. Time may not be working in favour of reaching a settlement, but we must keep in mind that we cannot afford any more failed attempts. We should be particularly cautious but resolute. Revival of the talks requires thorough preparation and an honest assessment that the prospect of success is at least credible. This in turn requires confirmation that the Turkish political aims have now changed and that Turkey has reconciled itself to the fact that achieving a settlement is synonymous with the concept of a single, reunified State. We have always hoped that Turkey’s accession course to the European Union would radically shift its mentality, a prospect that would mark the single biggest development in the Cyprus problem in decades. The fulfilment of Turkey’s obligations emanating from its accession course to the European Union will ipso jure rid the Cyprus problem of some of its most intractable components and facilitate a settlement. Simultaneously, the existence of the United Nations negotiating framework cannot serve as a pretext for postponing or refusing to fulfil these obligations. For our part, we remain committed to a bizonal, bicommunal federal Cyprus in line with what we consider to be the pillars of the survival of this model of settlement — the high-level agreements, United Nations resolutions, international law and the acquis communautaire. We anticipate that these will safeguard the right of all Cypriots to preserve their fundamental interests while simultaneously taking into account their most basic concerns. Aside from procedure, the time has come to go back to basics and realize that as long as the basic aspects of the problem are not truly tackled, progress will be difficult. Without dealing with the core components of the problem by putting an end to the military occupation, the massive violations of human rights and the plight of the refugees and by effectively addressing the question of settlers deliberately and illegally transported to the occupied part of the island, there can be no solution. At the same time, for progress to be realized on the ground all secessionist attempts on Cyprus must be terminated immediately, in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions, and a single vision based on the unification of the island must prevail. Unfortunately, however, we have not been moving closer to these imperatives. Instead we have been witnessing for well over a year a tendency to entrench the faits accomplis on Cyprus, particularly through an outburst of illegal exploitation of Greek- Cypriot-owned property in its occupied part. In establishing the new constitutional and institutional set-up we should avoid artificial structures that will require an abnormally long transitional period to be absorbed by the people and the institutions at a great socio-economic cost. We visualize that seeking a 05-51226 13 settlement will increasingly centre on and fall under the establishment of a functional, working democracy that does not require exceptionally taxing efforts for basic governance. We also visualize that with Cyprus’s membership of the European Union taking solid root, a settlement would encompass an integration of the currently occupied area to the characteristics of a European society and the standards of the acquis communautaire in full harmony with the rest of the island, and leading to a process of osmosis there. I convey my delegation’s felicitations on your election, Mr. President, on leading this historic session. I also wish to express our deep appreciation to Ambassador Jean Ping, whose leadership and wisdom proved to be the key to the successful negotiation and adoption of our outcome document. Sixty years ago, enduring peace was foremost in the minds of the founders of our Organization. Scarred from war and stunned by mankind’s capacity for death and destruction, they did not consider failure an option. Our common humanity demanded that we build a better and peaceful world. To do that, representatives from 50 nations gathered in San Francisco, in a building dedicated to those who defended and fought for freedom, to draft a charter that would unite the nations of the world for peace. General Carlos P. Romulo, the head of the Philippine delegation, articulating the hopes of mankind, said then at the United Nations: “Let us make this floor the last battlefield.” Mr. Zarif (Islamic Republic of Iran), Vice- President, took the Chair. The leading lights attending the founding of the United Nations are still familiar to us — Joseph Paul Boncour of France, Wellington Koo of China, Andrei Gromyko of Russia, Lord Halifax of the United Kingdom, Edward Stettinius of the United States, His Royal Highness Faisal ibn Abdul Aziz of Saudi Arabia, Sir Ramaswami Mudaliar of India, Jan Smuts of the Union of South Africa, Jan Masaryk of Czechoslovakia, Herbert Evatt of Australia, Exequiel Padilla of Mexico, and many others. Those visionaries led the historic and daunting task of writing the United Nations Charter. A third of mankind was still under colonial domination. Only three Asian nations were in attendance. Most of Africa were not yet independent nations. In a forum dominated by colonial Powers, the Philippines fought to ensure the notion that the goal of the Trusteeship Council should not only be self- government but independence. When the United Nations emblem was being drawn, General Romulo asked that the Philippines, although still a commonwealth, be included. He was told that the Philippines would only be a small dot on that now familiar map. He demanded nevertheless that the dot be placed on the map. The Philippines insistence on its place on the world map, albeit just a dot, symbolized for many soon-to-be independent and developing nations the challenge facing the United Nations. The clear challenge facing the United Nations at its inception, and particularly developing nations, was to ensure that freedom from want, freedom from fear and freedom to pursue human dignity would be at the heart of the political independence of the States. Sixty years after San Francisco, we continue to face the challenge of freeing all our peoples from want and from fear and allowing them the true dignity that they deserve as independent nations. The fight for the political and legal independence of States is over, but the fight to win for all peoples their freedom from fear and want and to pursue human dignity continues. For the Philippines, as a developing country, freedom from want is of utmost concern. Poverty, the energy crisis and insufficient financial resources, compounded by debt, are the pressing challenges 5 facing my country and its people. We also face serious security threats, particularly from terrorism — with many of our citizens victimized by terrorist attacks. We recognize the economic and social underpinnings of such acts. In the not too distant past, my country also had to confront the threat of the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). Our national experience prompts us to agree with the Secretary-General that these global threats are all interrelated, and our different perceptions of the imminence of the threats facing us should not deter us from cooperating to address them. This brings me to my central theme — that we should let the bond of our broad vision of our common humanity inspire us all to work towards a stronger United Nations for a better world. We agree with the Secretary-General that no nation can defend itself against threats entirely on its own. We agree that development, freedom from fear and human rights concerns are interrelated and should be equally considered in designing the solutions to the threats we face. We believe that because of this interrelation, these concerns should be addressed in a comprehensive and integrated manner. The world is facing the problem of unbridled spiralling of oil prices. International cooperation on energy is increasingly becoming an imperative as the capacity and capability of countries, particularly non- oil producing developing countries, to meet their development objectives, including the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), are affected. This unavoidably impacts on security. The Philippines welcomes the 100 per cent debt cancellation for the 38 heavily indebted poor countries. However, the debt situation is expected to worsen, as middle-income countries go deeper in debt with the threat of rising world oil prices. Once more, the need for other innovative and creative means of international cooperation for debt relief also becomes imperative. The Philippines has proposed the consideration of the adoption of a debt conversion scheme including “debt-for-equity” or “debt-for-Millennium Development Goal projects”. The scheme calls for the conversion of 50 per cent of the debt service into equity for MDG projects of at least equal value with an income earning potential. Debt for development projects can focus on areas that would achieve MDG benchmarks such as hospitals and health care, schools, classrooms, information technology, clean water, electricity, reforestation, eco- tourism and many others that should help us achieve our MDGs by 2015. The nexus between development and international migration cannot be overlooked. Migration brings challenges and opportunities to countries of origin, destination and transit. This is another multifaceted issue that requires international cooperation to be addressed in a coordinated and coherent manner. A comprehensive and effective international mechanism for cooperation should be drawn up to address its politico-security, social, cultural and economic development dimensions. As one of the major sending States, the Philippines stands ready to cooperate with all countries in contributing towards the formulation of effective mechanisms that would help ensure a smooth management of the migration phenomenon. The Philippines knows only too well the fear that terrorism instils in the civilian population and the anguish it brings to victims and close relatives. We take cognizance of terrorism’s political, social and economic underpinnings. Our national experience has shown us the value of dialogue in our approach to consider all those factors. The Philippines wants to share this positive value of dialogue and therefore has taken the lead in drawing attention to the need for interfaith dialogue as an integral part for the promotion of the culture of peace. My President recently convened a successful informal summit on interfaith dialogue and cooperation here in the United Nations. The summit adopted a declaration calling for greater interreligious, intercultural and intercivilizational dialogue and cooperation to ensure a lasting and durable peace and understanding at the global, regional and national levels. We invite all who agree with its principles to consider endorsing the declaration. We all acknowledge that the world has reached an unprecedented stage when there are virtually no more barriers, whether of space or time. Communication technology has made possible the dissemination of information instantaneously to practically all parts and corners of the globe. 6 As the nineteenth century brought us the industrial revolution, the twentieth century brought us to the technology revolution ushered in by computerization. The twenty-first century now offers infinite possibilities to further advance the information age. At no other time has the saying “no man is an island” rang truer. As the Secretary-General has said, what affects one affects all in this globalized world. However, the information age is a two-edged sword, as experience has shown us. While it opened opportunities, it also brought challenges that we all have to cope with. Our concern however is that just as the limitless opportunities it offered could be used to benefit humanity, it could also be used destructively. Information technology enables companies to search for lowest cost factors of production globally, operate more efficiently and pass on the benefits to consumers. However, this same technology also enables disillusioned and desperate members of society to become agents of terror and recruit adherents to their way of thinking as well as to fund their destructive activities. It is therefore in our common interest to bring together our collective strengths to take advantage of the opportunities before us as well as to confront common threats. For 60 years, the United Nations has provided us the forum to draw up norms of conduct that take on board all our concerns. From its inception with 51 Member States in 1945, the membership has almost quadrupled to its present 191 States. While the United Nations has, time and again, adopted some reforms, at no other time has the pressure for far-reaching change been starker than it is now. The evolving global and regional security environment, ongoing conflicts in many countries that have multidimensional root causes and other flashpoints have to be addressed. It is clear that in pursuing our shared interest to preserve our common humanity, the United Nations continues to serve as our indispensable tool. It is therefore also our shared interest to strengthen it. Even before San Francisco, some key decisions had already been reached among the major Powers, primarily on the power of the veto, or what was referred to then as the “unanimity rule”. Our delegation, in concert with others, pressed for an increased role of the General Assembly. We felt that this was the balance necessary to safeguard the effectiveness of the United Nations in maintaining international peace and security. We also urged wider and more equitable representation in the Security Council — an aspiration that has yet to achieve realization, and thus an advocacy that my country carries to this day. The outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting provides the substance upon which to strengthen the United Nations system. It should guide us well in our discussions on institutional reform. Six decades after San Francisco, our common humanity remains at stake. We have today another opportunity to make our United Nations succeed. Whether the issue is United Nations reform or freedom from want or fear, we must act now to ensure that the principles committed to by our leaders at this year’s summit be implemented effectively and efficiently. Allow me therefore to present at this point some practical strategies that may assist us in ensuring that we achieve our goals. Firstly, the agreed commitments should be broken down into tangible steps. Concrete benchmarks and pragmatic indicators of progress must be set. Secondly, with concrete international benchmarks, national strategies can be geared to achieving them. All concerned national actors in domestic procedures and actions should be involved. This is necessary to put into effect and implement multilateral commitments. Ideally, national actors should be privy to developments in the negotiating process and have the opportunity to provide their own inputs with respect to the national position to be taken. This is expected to ensure implementation and follow- up to the commitments made by our leaders. Thirdly, we must not lose sight of the need to increase congruence among national, regional and international plans of action. Keeping these in sight contributes to a faster rate of achieving these goals. National plans of action can be elevated to the regional level, whenever feasible. Fourthly, we must rethink our existing modes of international cooperation. There will be value in assessing how we have been collaborating bilaterally, regionally and multilaterally. Let us assess the effectiveness of our current modes of cooperation. 7 In adopting practical measures and in discovering new opportunities and addressing new threats, we must be mindful of the old hopes and enduring dreams that led to the birth of our United Nations. As a child, I listened with all innocence as my family closely followed the work of the Philippine delegation in San Francisco. I felt proud that my nation, the Philippines — the Benjamin among the founders — was part of this historic event. We were rebuilding our shattered lives and mourning our dead. Yet we held on to hope. We had hope that no country would ever again crush us with their bombs, trample us with their tanks or defile our mothers, sisters and daughters. As a nation devastated by war, we placed great hope in the United Nations. I still remember the words that made us dare dream of a better, more peaceful world — words heard by a child through the crackle and static of an old radio, words spoken by General Carlos P. Romulo in addressing the delegates in San Francisco in 1945. He said: “Words are more powerful than guns in the defence of human dignity. Treaties are stronger than armamented boundaries. The only impregnable line is that of human understanding.”Your election, Sir, as President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session comes at a significant moment in the history of the United Nations. The outcome document adopted by our heads of State or Government shortly after the beginning of the session represents the culmination of a long process. It started with the report of the High- level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. It continued with the Secretary-General’s “In larger freedom” report, and the efforts of your distinguished predecessor to synthesize those ideas for the consideration of Member States. We thank all of those involved for their dedicated efforts. We are united in our commitment to multilateralism; that is a good foundation for our further efforts. All countries, especially those from the developing world, played a significant role in the negotiations on the outcome document. Much was achieved; much has been left out. There are foundations on which we have to build, but there are also shortcomings which we need to correct in the process of implementation. A notable omission is the theme of disarmament. Our struggle for multilaterally negotiated, universal and verifiable nuclear disarmament, in a time-bound manner, must continue with vigour. The outcome document must serve as a road map, with its main elements acting as signposts in our discussions over the coming months under your stewardship, Mr. President. 26 You, Sir, have suggested a very appropriate theme for the general debate: “For a stronger and more effective United Nations: follow-up to and implementation of the High-Level Meeting in September 2005”. We believe that that captures the spirit and essence of all that we, co-partners in the United Nations, wish to achieve. India is the world’s largest democracy. There is no historical precedent for a democracy of over 1 billion people. It is a tremendous undertaking. It is also an exciting and inspiring one. We are breaking new ground. The fact that Indian democracy works is a political miracle. The credit goes to the Indian voters. They ensure that India remains secular, democratic and pluralistic. We also believe that we need to do much more to inculcate respect for and acceptance of pluralism. I am reminded of what Mahatma Gandhi, the father of our nation, said: “I do not want my house to be walled in on all sides and my windows to be stuffed. I want the cultures of all the lands to be blown about my house as freely as possible. But I refuse to be blown off my feet by any.” Humankind is now learning, to some extent, to cope with the menace of terrorism. We all know that that evil is increasingly directed at innocent civilians. It invites the strongest condemnation. We all agree that there can be no justification for terrorism in any form. Whether we are considering terrorism or non- proliferation, unless there is a non-selective, uniform and sustained approach, the objectives of the international community cannot be achieved. The outcome document reflects the joint resolve of the international community to fight terrorism. In our judgement, there is no institutional setting that is more capable than the United Nations of providing cohesion and vigour to those efforts. As a victim of terrorism over the past two decades, India understands, and is fully supportive of, the need for United Nations action on counter- terrorism. A key aspect of the implementation of the outcome document will be the development and adoption by the General Assembly of a strong counter- terrorism agenda to supplement the existing General Assembly and Security Council resolutions on that issue. As an initiator of the draft comprehensive convention on international terrorism, India welcomes, and is fully committed to, the decision taken by heads of State or Government to conclude negotiations on the convention during this session of the General Assembly. The main purpose of the summit last week was to review the implementation of the Millennium Declaration. Unfortunately, most developing countries will not be able to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, given current growth rates and levels of international support. We must strengthen efforts at both the national and the international levels to take us closer to the development targets set out in the Millennium document. The Millennium Development Goals embody a quantifiable vision of human dignity and solidarity, as well as of important economic and social rights. Yet, important objectives, such as employment, critical for developing countries, are excluded. India’s use of innovative financial instruments for rural infrastructural investment, as well as our Rural Employment Guarantee Bill — recently passed in Parliament — I believe may be of interest to other developing countries. Most of us had much higher expectations of the summit in the area of development, particularly in agreeing on a definite timetable for the achievement of the 0.7 per cent target for official development assistance. Unfortunately, that has not been achieved, and we have gone down to 0.5 per cent. That is equally true of innovative sources of financing because developing countries cannot break out of the cycle of poverty without enhanced resource flows and the application of science and technology to meet their developmental challenges. As India’s own economy develops — at about 8 per cent per year — and its technological advancement comes of age, we are expanding our economic and technical cooperation with the developing countries, reinforcing our political solidarity. We have extensive programmes in Africa and elsewhere in the developing world. We are also happy to have contributed to the South Fund for Development and Humanitarian Assistance. The India-Brazil-South Africa Facility for Alleviation of Poverty and Hunger is a good example of South-South cooperation. India has written off the debts of all the highly indebted poor countries. Given India’s long-term association with and commitment to Africa, we 27 welcome the recognition given by the High-level Plenary Meeting to the need to urgently address the special needs of our African brothers and sisters. On its part, India has undertaken several initiatives in partnership with Africa. The Techno-Economic Approach for Africa-India Movement initiative is designed to promote technology transfer to West Africa. The pivotal role of scientific knowledge and technology for economic development cannot be overstated. India stands ready to share its experience with the developing countries of Africa and elsewhere. To bridge the digital divide within a country itself, which sometimes becomes as problematic as it is at the international level, wireless local loop technology developed in India, which eliminates expensive equipment and copper lines, has already been used in several countries in Africa. India has put together a connectivity mission in Africa, using fiber optics and dedicated satellite. It will support tele- education, telemedicine, e-commerce and e- governance, infotainment, resource mapping and meteorological services. India is also earmarking $1.5 billion for lines of credit to assist developing countries, in particular those in Africa, in fighting HIV/AIDS and other pandemics. The international community needs to address intellectual property regimes that seek to deny technologies rather than facilitating their transfer to the developing countries, including in the areas of environment and public health. Although both the Millennium Declaration and the outcome document have spoken of exploiting the beneficial aspects of globalization, we are yet to agree on and implement the modalities for such a process. Making the process of globalization fairer and more equitable remains one of the main challenges of our time. At present, the accumulation of wealth is accompanied by the accumulation of poverty. Ruskin, the nineteenth century British author, in his book Unto this Last — a favourite of Mahatma Gandhi — described such wealth as “the gilded index of a far- reaching ruin, a wrecker’s pile of coin gleaned from a beach to which he has beguiled an argosy.” Poverty is sometimes attributed to lack of entrepreneurship. The poor of the world prove their entrepreneurship every day by ensuring their families’ physical survival. Regrettably, the summit has not given a clear and comprehensive direction to the World Trade Organization (WTO) Doha Round of trade negotiations. Formulas are not an end in themselves; the end has to be a decrease in poverty and an increase in employment. Therefore, equal treatment cannot be forced on unequal partners. Special and differential treatment remains an integral component of all trade negotiations, including agriculture and non-agricultural market access. India, as a member of the G-20, will continue to promote in the WTO and elsewhere the interests of all developing countries, including the small island developing States, the least developed, the landlocked and the highly indebted poor countries. An achievement of the developing countries in the Group of 77 is their hard-fought and reasonably successful struggle for progress on systemic issues critical to good international economic governance. We have to build on that to ensure the reform of Bretton Woods institutions and the restoration of the central role of the United Nations in setting the international economic agenda. A change in the composition of the Security Council is an imperative. The G-4 framework resolution has made United Nations reform a central issue that can no longer be ignored or disregarded. There is a democracy deficit, as the Secretary-General also said in July, in the governance of the United Nations. There is not much point in speaking of inclusiveness, transparency and democracy and leaving the Security Council as a glaring exception to those principles. Measures taken so far to revitalize the General Assembly are simply not enough. Only by electing permanent members committed to rendering unto the General Assembly what is the General Assembly’s can that be done. That is essential for a world order in which decisions are optimal and therefore acceptable, and the use of force minimal. Jawaharlal Nehru, India’s first Prime Minister, aptly stated: “Above all, we have to participate in the growing structure of a world order. We cannot rely on others to do it on our behalf.” One cannot argue in favour of democracy in the rest of the world and leave the Security Council undemocratic. Effectiveness is a function of right decisions with broad support. Negotiations on the outcome document and many subsequent statements have demonstrated that, if more could not be achieved on the development aspects of trade in the document, it is because the Security Council has not been made representative. If institutional reform has been faltering and many are 28 doubtful of securing a just solution, it is because the Security Council does not reflect the world of today. It reflects the world of 1945. The unsatisfactory progress on other issues shows that critics of Security Council expansion in both the categories were profoundly mistaken. Security Council reform, far from hindering progress, was actually helping it. In its absence, fears of intervention have prevented agreement on a human rights council and other issues. Therefore, Security Council reform remains more necessary than ever and should preferably, as the Secretary-General has said, be completed by the end of the year. That should be our main priority; I doubt if it is. Security Council reform is not about any country’s prestige or power, but about transforming the balance of power in the world. Our experience in India from the freedom movement to present times shows that diversity is a source of strength and effectiveness. The same would be true of a reformed Security Council. We would continue also to engage actively in the strengthening of the Economic and Social Council, the restructuring of the Secretariat and the setting-up of peacebuilding commission. As we observe the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations, I am reminded once again of the words of India’s first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, who said at this very forum 45 years ago: “During these past fifteen years the United Nations has often been criticized for its structure and for some of its activities. These criticisms have had some justification behind them, but looking at the broad picture I think that we can definitely say that the United Nations has amply justified its existence and repeatedly prevented our recurrent crises from developing into war. It has played a great role, and it is a little difficult now to think of this troubled world without the United Nations.” (A/PV.882, para. 110) In the life of individuals as well as of institutions, the completion of 60 years is a significant moment for stocktaking — certainly in my part of the world. Even as we reflect upon the functioning of this institution since its inception in 1945, all of us gathered here look forward to the realization of new hopes, aspirations and, indeed, to a rejuvenated United Nations which is fully geared to meet the myriad challenges of our times and effectively contribute to the well-being and development of humanity at large and to manage change. The vision which we have for a better world is best described in the words of a great son of India, the great poet Rabindranath Tagore, who was the first Asian to be awarded the Nobel Prize in literature. I shall end my statement by quoting a very famous text of his: “Where the mind is without fear and the head is held high Where knowledge is free Where the world has not been broken up into fragments by narrow domestic walls Where words come out from the depth of truth Where tireless striving stretches its arms towards perfection Where the clear stream of reason has not lost its way Into the dreary desert sand of dead habit Where the mind is led forward by thee Into ever-widening thought and action Into that heaven of freedom, my Father, let my country awake.”It is my pleasure to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. Your renowned experience in international affairs, especially in the United Nations system, will undoubtedly guarantee success for our deliberations. I cannot fail to seize this opportunity to express to your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Gabon, our thanks and appreciation for his efforts towards the successful conduct of the deliberations of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. It also gives me pleasure to express to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, our appreciation for his efforts to implement the resolutions of the Organization and to fulfil the purposes of its Charter. During the 60 years of its existence, the United Nations has witnessed heated debates and bitter differences. Yet this Organization remains a forum for dialogue among nations on the means of building a secure world. While we agree with others on the need to reform the United Nations and take new international developments into account, we stress that such a process should be constructive and should apply lessons learned and the positive experiences that the United Nations has had. We also believe that such a process should unite and not divide us. It is through broad agreement that we will be able to enhance the authority and legitimacy of the United Nations, as well as its ability to effectively respond to the challenges of the twenty-first century. We must not forget that this Organization belongs to us all, and not merely to one particular party. We should therefore find the wisdom to preserve it for future generations. Five years ago, we adopted a declaration in which we set out the international communityís vision for the new millennium. Regrettably, both facts and figures show that the results have not lived up to our expectations. The objectives defined remain unfulfilled. Poverty, hunger and epidemics are prevalent throughout the world, while tension and foreign occupation continue to threaten international peace and security and hamper development for those living under foreign occupation. Failure to eliminate weapons of mass destruction, foremost among which are nuclear weapons, haunts us and threatens peace. It is no longer feasible to delay the reform of the world economic order. Moreover, reform should not be confined to this international Organization. Rather, it must encompass all international economic and financial institutions, particularly those that contribute to economic decision-making. The road ahead lies in 20 fairness, equality and democratic participation. The Bretton Woods institutions, whose decisions bear directly on life in our countries, should be the prime candidates for the overdue reform. We deem it fit to recall the recommendation of several summit meetings, in both the North and the South, supporting the developing countriesí right to join the World Trade Organization, with no hurdles and in a depoliticized way. Speaking of development, we welcome the important outcomes of the three summits held during the past five months on development, namely, the Asian-African Summit, the South American-Arab Countries Summit, and the second South-South Summit. Those meetings rejected the imposition of unilateral sanctions, considering such a policy to be in violation of the principles of the Charter and international law and dangerous to development plans and reform processes in the targeted countries. The main focus of discussions in the High-level Plenary Meeting was the reform of the United Nations. We believe that the reform process will not be complete if it does not take into consideration the inability of the United Nations, for reasons known to all, to implement its resolutions pertaining to the Arab- Israeli conflict. These reasons are primarily embodied in the generous support and unlimited protection offered by some to Israeli aggression against the Arab states and to Israelís continuing occupation of the Syrian Golan, the Palestinian territories, and parts of southern Lebanon. Syria has declared that the withdrawal of settlers and Israeli forces from Gaza is undoubtedly a first step but that this alone is not enough for peace. What is required is the implementation of all United Nations resolutions, the establishment of an independent Palestinian State, the return of the occupied Golan Heights and the return of refugees. There are relentless attempts by the Israeli side in particular and also by those who support it to portray this withdrawal as a great accomplishment that is also painful. However, they are neglecting the fact that the painful Israeli occupation of the Gaza Strip lasted for over 38 years, during which our brothers in the Gaza Strip in particular suffered from the horrors of occupation and its inhumane practices. Moreover, this abominable occupation persists in the West Bank, including Jerusalem, as well as in the occupied Syrian territories in the Golan. As affirmed by many delegations in their statements this session, the international community must be wary and must demand that the withdrawal from the Gaza Strip be a full withdrawal from land, sea, and air in order for it to be considered a complete withdrawal. Moreover, this withdrawal cannot be accepted as a cover for the continued Israeli occupation of the West Bank and East Jerusalem, nor can it be a cover for the continued existence of settlements and the separation wall in these territories, especially since the General Assembly has expressed its support for the legal opinion of the International Court of Justice on the illegitimate nature of the wall. Israel has rejected the opinion. In 1981, the Security Council passed resolution 497 (1981), deeming the Israeli decision to annex the Golan null and void. The General Assembly has passed dozens of resolutions condemning all the measures and actions taken by Israel ó the occupying Power ó to change the nature of the occupied Syrian Golan and its legal status and considering such measures null and void and a blatant violation of international law and the Geneva Conventions. In defiance of resolutions of international legitimacy, Israel has evicted almost half a million Syrians from their land and continues to detain dozens of Syrians, some of whom have been imprisoned for over 30 years. Israel still calls for the construction of more settlements in the occupied Syrian territories. The question is: If Israel claims that withdrawing its settlers is painful and if it is genuine in its desire for peace in the region, then why does its Government continue to build settlements and bring settlers in to the occupied Syrian and Palestinian Arab territories? Syria has exerted every effort possible to achieve a just and comprehensive peace in the region. It has continued to declare its readiness to resume the peace process unconditionally, keeping in mind that the implementation of resolutions of international legitimacy is not considered a precondition. However, all these efforts have gone to waste because of Israelís greed and its defiance of international legitimacy. Therefore, we would like to affirm that peace in the Middle East, to which the international community aspires, cannot be achieved unless Israel abides by the resolutions of international legitimacy, particularly Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), the principle of land for peace and the Madrid Peace Conference terms of reference, and unless it 21 accepts the initiative that was put forth by the Arab States at the 2002 Beirut summit and reaffirmed at the Tunis and Algiers summits. The international community is following the tragic events that have been unfolding in sisterly Iraq as a result of its occupation and the attempts to fragment the unity of its land and its people. We are now facing a tragic situation that has led to the death of thousands of innocent Iraqis and to the destruction of that sisterly countryís infrastructure. Guided by our desire to stem the bloodshed, we have taken many measures, which has put a burden on our resources. Syria has deployed thousands of its soldiers along the Iraqi-Syrian border. We have also intercepted many of those attempting to infiltrate the border into Iraq. In contrast, those who ceaselessly hurl accusations at Syria have failed to shoulder their responsibility to ensure effective control of the border from the other side. The responsibility is shared between the two neighbouring countries. Although some had promised to assist us and provide technical equipment for border control, they have failed to keep their promises. Syria condemns the acts of terrorism that continue to be perpetrated throughout Iraq, causing many casualties among innocent civilians. We stress that preserving the unity of Iraqís territory and people in these critical times requires a full commitment to national unity on the part of all segments and groups of the Iraqi population. Furthermore, Syria condemns all statements aimed at creating discord and infighting among the Iraqi people. Such statements have been disseminated by suspect groups that wish to spread chaos, extinguish hope and exacerbate suffering. Syria will continue to support the political process in Iraq, until the country and its people overcome their plight and are able to exercise their right to self- determination in a unified, secure and prosperous Iraq. Syria welcomes the interest shown by the United Nations and its Member States in combating and eradicating terrorism. I find it necessary to affirm that Syria was one of the first countries to experience terrorism and that it has fought to eradicate it. From this rostrum, Syria reaffirms that it will continue to cooperate with all States seeking to eradicate terrorism and implement all relevant Security Council resolutions. Furthermore, Syria has signed and ratified international conventions on terrorism, including, most recently, the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, which we signed on the first day it was open for signature, 14 September 2005. Syria emphasizes that it is crucially important to avoid confusing terrorism ó which we are combating and sincerely cooperating to eradicate ó with the just struggle of peoples for liberation and independence, seeking to put an end to foreign occupation. That is a right guaranteed by the Charter of the United Nations, which most Member States of the Organization hold dear. Syria was also among the first countries to initiate, in 1986, the proposal that an international conference be convened under United Nations auspices to define terrorism and consider its root causes. The outcome of the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) held several months ago revealed the need to refocus international efforts on nuclear disarmament and to ensure the Treatyís universality. The facts clearly indicate the importance of returning to the principle of multilateralism and of making operational the various multilateral international conventions on disarmament issues. At any rate, the Middle East region continues to experience a unique situation that is both a source of concern and a cause for censure. Israel alone runs a dangerous military nuclear programme outside any international framework and refuses to adhere to the NPT, while all the other States of the region are party to the Treaty and respect it in letter and spirit. Here, I must recall once again Syriaís initiative, proposed on behalf of all the Arab States to the Security Council on 29 December 2003, to eradicate all weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons, from the Middle East region as a step towards declaring it a zone free of all weapons of mass destruction, including banning nuclear weapons and preventing their proliferation. Syria is undergoing a serious process of comprehensive economic and social reforms. The Syrian human development plan is modelled on the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs); thus the plan's objectives serve as stepping stones towards the ultimate achievement of the MDGs. The Syrian Governmentís strategy is based on the principles of cooperation for development, as reflected in the concept of an effective development partnership among the State, the private sector and civil society. Syria is 22 striving to develop domestic investment, to encourage foreign investment and to improve the infrastructure and the performance of our institutions, while eliminating waste and fighting corruption. Important reports have recently been prepared in coordination with the United Nations Development Programme, including an analysis of the macroeconomic situation; reports on poverty, national development and the Millennium Goals; and a Human Development Report on education. Syria accords due importance and attention to empowering women and promoting their rights so that they can fulfil their role. In addition, Syria attaches great importance to children, to persons with special needs and the disabled with a view to securing their future. Syria supports reform of the Security Council aimed at improving its working methods, including increasing its transparency. As I have previously stressed, we believe in the importance of just representation of all regions in the Council through the expansion of both the permanent and the non- permanent membership categories, and the need for representation of the Arab States through a permanent seat in any Council expansion. Africa remains at the centre of Syria's concerns. Without stability in Africa, there will never be genuine development in the world. The Summit Outcome document (resolution 60/1) calls for sufficient efforts to satisfy the special needs of Africa. We believe that that is necessary and correct. We do not believe that the Security Council can resolve Africa's problems by holding more meetings on the continent. It is more important to achieve concrete results by responding to Africa's voice, respecting its viewpoints and taking its concerns into account. In that regard, we should like to pay tribute to the efforts of the African Union, as reflected in its mediation and good offices aimed at crisis settlement in Africa. The modern world and multilateral diplomacy, represented in the United Nations, stand at the threshold of a new era. Let us all rise to the challenges confronting us so that we may guarantee a future of security, peace and stability for mankind.Allow me at the outset to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside over the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. Given your role at this critical moment, Guinea-Bissau, in its capacity as a Vice-President at this session, will spare no effort in supporting you in your work. I also extend my warmest congratulations to your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, Minister of State and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the sisterly Republic of Gabon, on the commitment and skill he demonstrated during his presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I also congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on his excellent work at the head of our Organization to strengthen its credibility, promote essential international solidarity, and achieve consensus on major issues relating to security, counter-terrorism, development and human rights. The world awaits the dawn of a new order, which will require a more realistic and democratic international political framework, global commitment, and the collective will of all Member States to meet the challenges facing humankind in the context of increasing interdependence. We endorse the conclusions and recommendations contained in the Secretary-General's report, and I reiterate my country's readiness to contribute to all global agreements that will allow us to meet the current challenges of development, security, the fight against international terrorism, respect for human rights, and institutional reform of the United Nations, in particular that of the Security Council, where Africa should enjoy the legitimate right to hold two permanent seats. To carry out these reforms, it is important that there be political will, based on the collective action of States, which is the foundation of this international system. I cannot overemphasize the fact that cooperation which could lead to this collective action will be possible only if the policies of our countries take account of the needs of our own citizens, as well as the needs of others, because we are part of the same human family, forced to live together on this same planet, and we have an obligation to share it and protect it. In this regard, I would express my concern vis-a- vis the phenomenon of globalization. We are aware of the enormous potential and advantages of a well- managed globalization and all that it has to offer in the economic, financial, commercial, technological and communication fields. However, it is equally important, at this stage of globalization, to recognize that it has not been sufficiently inclusive. Exclusion and marginalization in international relations are the negative effects of globalization. These are factors that contribute to the existence and proliferation of conflicts - situations which require properly-coordinated, global responses, as well as multilateral frameworks for dialogue, agreement and effective interaction. Inter-State conflict, civil wars, organized crime, terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the illicit trafficking in small arms and light weapons are phenomena which threaten international security. But such threats are not limited solely to these spheres. They also involve poverty, pandemics and natural disasters affecting the planet. The growing link between security and development is proof that the gesture of solidarity desired with regard to financing for development of the poor is needed more than ever. This responsible and 4 positive attitude is one of the main pillars in our efforts to pursue the Millennium Development Goals, a challenge which mankind cannot fail to meet. I hope that there will be sufficient political will so that the new partnership for development which we wish to see established among States in the very near future will dispel any doubts and fulfil the hopes raised during the internationally-organized conferences within the framework of the United Nations in the economic, financial and social and related spheres. The outcome document we have just adopted at the conclusion of the recent High-level Plenary Meeting is still insufficient, but it is forward-looking. We must underscore the fact that discussions, agreements and negotiations need to be pursued in a transparent fashion in order to achieve desired results by all Member States. Africa has rightfully been the recent subject of increased attention on the part of the international community. I am pleased to express our satisfaction at the decision recently adopted at the Summit of the G-8 regarding debt cancellation for some African countries, and the possibility of extending this measure to other poor countries, including my country, Guinea-Bissau. On 1 October, Guinea-Bissau will continue and conclude the process of complete return to constitutional normalcy through presidential elections. The success of this political transitional period that began in September 2003 is the fruitful result of balanced relations among institutions of the Republic, based on the separation of powers and characterized by good governance. We must recognize that this has not always been easy, and quite often we have faced situations which go beyond our national capacity to resolve. The framework for constant cooperation and agreement with the international community has been an important instrument in following up the socio- economic situation and the political internal process. We wish to express our thanks to the Member States of the Economic Community of West African States, the European Union, the international community and Portuguese-speaking countries for contributing to the political transitional process in our country. Without this support for Guinea-Bissau it would have been difficult for us to face the numerous constraints during the transitional phase. The role played by the United Nations system - the Economic and Social Council's ad hoc group and the Group of Friends of Guinea-Bissau in particular - deserves special mention and our most heartfelt thanks. The support of the international community has been very important in the success of the transitional period in Guinea-Bissau. However, more decisive action is required to meet the challenges of reconstruction and the rebuilding of the infrastructure in my country, to improve the economy and create minimal conditions for governability and to strengthen the foundation of a democratic State, which we wish to see in Guinea-Bissau. These factors are essential for peace and for political and social stability. Once again, I would call from this rostrum for the support of the international community in the November Donor Round-Table Conference with partners in peace for development in order to adopt together a document on the national strategy to reduce poverty. This goal is in line with the concerns of the United Nations aimed at more effective assistance to countries in post-conflict situations, contained in the proposal to create a Peacebuilding Commission, which we fully support. We recognize respect for the rules of democracy, for human rights and good economic and financial governance. We feel that they are the foundation for the rule of law. We reaffirm the commitment of my Government, in strict compliance with our constitution, to work in close cooperation with all institutions of the Republic to create conditions aimed at promoting national reconciliation, peace and domestic political stability, to consolidate our relations of friendship, brotherhood and solidarity with our neighbours and to restore a climate of trust, credibility and effective, lasting partnership with the entire international community for socio-economic development in our country.Let me begin, Sir, by extending my sincere congratulations to you on assuming the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. Well aware of your experience and diplomatic skills, I have every confidence that under your able leadership, we will achieve great results during this important session, which marks the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, whose tireless work enabled the membership to successfully prepare for the High-level Plenary Meeting held last week. My highest tribute also goes to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, for his unqualified dedication to our world body. The leaders of the world gathered here last week in the largest summit meeting of States in history and demonstrated their collective political will to overcome the challenges of the present and to build a future of peace and prosperity for all humankind. They reaffirmed their commitment to achieving the Millennium Development Goals. They also underscored the vital role of the United Nations for our time and gave guidance on steps to reform the Organization. The outcome document (resolution 60/1), adopted in the greatest spirit of cooperation and compromise, may not be everything to everyone, but it is the guideline for action that our leaders have given us. The task now is to implement it. The work will require determined action by all. Success will be ensured only when each and every one of us strives to look beyond the immediate horizon. We must commit ourselves anew to realizing the ideal that inspired the founders of the Organization 60 years ago, that of building a peaceful and prosperous world in 13 which all peoples live together in harmony, free from want and fear. Certainly, with 30,000 children dying of hunger or preventable diseases every day, the world lies far from that ideal today. Everyone agrees that we have the means to lift the whole world out of poverty and underdevelopment. We just need to effectively put those means to good use. Thus, the concrete, action- oriented recommendations adopted by our leaders on partnership, financing, trade, debt relief and other aspects of development are greatly welcome. We must fully and speedily implement them so that, by the year 2015, most of the world’s impoverished are freed from hunger and poverty, the spread of HIV/AIDS is halted, primary education is made universal for all children, gender equality takes firm root in all societies and the global partnership to achieve those and other development goals is in full operation. In particular, we welcome the timetables many developed countries have presented for reaching the target of 0.7 per cent of gross national income for official development assistance (ODA) by 2015. The Republic of Korea is committed to doing its share. Despite the internal and external economic challenges that my country has faced since the financial crisis of 1997, we have continued to increase development assistance year after year, doubling our ODA between 2000 and 2004. We now plan to double it again by 2009. My Government is also seeking other ways to build partnerships with developing countries. Utilizing our resources and expertise in information and communication technology, we are working with the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific to build and host an Asia-Pacific training centre for information and communication technology, with an initial outlay of $10 million. The centre will contribute to reducing the digital divide and enabling developing countries to make the most of information and communication technologies for development. Korea is also dedicated to good governance, which is an essential ingredient of development. Thus, we are working with the Secretariat to establish a United Nations governance centre in Seoul, as a follow-up to the Sixth Global Forum on Reinventing Government, which my Government hosted earlier this year. Health is another area that requires our collective action. In our globalized, connected world, infectious diseases can spread with terrifying speed, with no regard for borders. They can become pandemics that threaten the development and the security of affected countries and regions. Here, too, the world must act together. For its part, my Government is contributing to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. We are also vigorously supporting the activities of the International Vaccine Institute in Seoul, which strives to develop and disseminate vaccines most needed in the world’s poorest regions. And we have taken part in the launching of the International Partnership on Avian and Pandemic Influenza, announced by President Bush of the United States in his speech here last week (see A/60/PV.2). As world leaders noted, the threats to peace and security around the world today are increasing, interconnected and global in scale. They require of us an urgent, collective and more determined response. Terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) and transnational crime are grave threats that can be most effectively addressed when countries act in concert under the United Nations banner. Cruel and inhuman acts of terrorism targeting innocent lives, as witnessed in Iraq, the United Kingdom and elsewhere, are heinous crimes for which there can be no justification. The Republic of Korea is already a party to all 12 international anti-terrorism conventions in force. Last week, I signed for my Government the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism as soon as it was opened for signature. We are strongly committed to preventing and eradicating international terrorism in all its forms. We will continue to actively participate in the efforts to conclude a comprehensive convention on international terrorism as soon as possible. The proliferation of WMDs is another pressing security concern. The prospect of WMDs falling into the hands of terrorists is more alarming and real than ever before. The Republic of Korea is fully committed to the non-proliferation of WMDs. Thus, we are dismayed that the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting is silent on this vital issue. We very much hope for an early opportunity to redress this omission. In the meantime, my Government will 14 continue to press for the strengthening of the nuclear compliance and verification system. We call for the universal adoption of International Atomic Energy Association (IAEA) additional protocols, the disarmament and non-proliferation of biological and chemical weapons and the full implementation of Security Council resolution 1540 (2004). In facing the threats of terrorism or WMDs, or any traditional threats, the Security Council must be made to act more quickly and efficiently to situations that arise when the elements of a threat become reality. At the same time, the Security Council must exercise with only the utmost prudence its prerogative to sanction the use of force. In that regard, we should build upon the agreement reflected in the outcome document on the establishment of principles for the use of force. That would lead to the strengthened relevance and efficiency of the Security Council and of the collective security system embodied in the United Nations as a whole. Peacekeeping has been an important part of this system. Indeed, the success of the peacekeeping missions in such places as Timor-Leste has been one of the proudest achievements of the Organization in recent years. However, there have been failures, as well as cases of fragile peace being overtaken by the resumption of conflict. Shameful misconduct by some peacekeeping operation personnel in certain missions has added to the sense of disappointment. Obviously, what is needed is a more structured and extensive mechanism to make the peace more durable and consolidate the grounds for post-conflict reconstruction. In this regard, my Government welcomes the decision taken at the High-level Plenary Meeting to establish a Peacebuilding Commission. We hope to play our part, so that effective peacebuilding can become an important part of the role of the United Nations to ensure peace and security around the world. This is very much in line with our past and current participation in efforts to restore peace in many challenged areas of the world, including in Iraq, where we are helping the Iraqi people to build a democratic and prosperous country. I would like to take this opportunity to address the current situation regarding the North Korean nuclear issue. After a 13-month hiatus, the fourth round of the six-party talks commenced on 26 July, broke off for a recess and resumed last week. During the talks, all participants agreed on the goal and principles of the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. They conducted serious, in-depth consultations to make substantive progress towards realizing that objective. For our part, the Republic of Korea has made an earnest effort to expedite the talks and move them towards a resolution, including through the offer to supply 2 million kilowatts of electric power to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea directly, addressing one of the most pressing problems it faces. As we are gathered here, the resumed fourth round is under way to adopt an agreement on the principles for the resolution of the North Korean nuclear issue. Once adopted, the agreement will be a crucial step towards the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula and will launch discussions on an action plan towards a peaceful resolution of the North Korean nuclear issue. A strategic decision by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to dismantle all nuclear weapons and nuclear programmes would be met with economic and energy assistance and security assurances. North Korea must return to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and comply with the full scope of IAEA safeguards so as to restore the trust of the international community. The doors would then open to its right to peaceful use of nuclear energy. We urge North Korea to take this road. The Republic of Korea is committed to promoting human rights as universal values that should be guaranteed to all. Based on our own experience of the past decades, we know that development and security are on shaky ground without full respect for the human rights of all. We thus welcome the reform initiatives to strengthen the United Nations human rights system and wholly support the creation of a Human Rights Council. We would have preferred to see stronger language and greater detail about the composition, mandate and functions of the Council spelled out in the summit outcome document. Working closely with other delegations, we hope to promptly engage in active consultations so that the Council can be established and can start functioning as soon as possible. The Republic of Korea is also committed to democracy at home and abroad. We are an active participant in the Community of Democracies and have supported the International Conference of New and Restored Democracies. We have pledged to contribute 15 to the United Nations Democracy Fund, and we will remain a strong supporter of the continuing mission of the United Nations to nurture and strengthen democracy and human rights around the world. Respect for human rights and the rule of law are indispensable for the preservation of peace and cooperation among nations. Mass killings, genocide and other grave infringements of human rights are threats to peace and stability and must not be let pass with impunity. The principle of the “responsibility to protect”, as discussed during the High-level Plenary Meeting, underscores the responsibility of the international community to lend assistance to States in upholding their solemn obligation to protect their citizens. We support the continued deliberations by Member States to reach agreement on the responsibility to protect. This would certainly form the backbone of a preventive mechanism against gross violations of human rights. Earlier this month, Hurricane Katrina devastated New Orleans and the surrounding areas in the United States, causing massive casualties and tremendous pain and suffering for the victims and their families. On behalf of the Government and people of the Republic of Korea, I would like to extend our deepest sympathies and condolences to those affected. Coming less than a year after the massive tsunami that struck many countries of South-East Asia, Katrina once again mobilized the international community in bringing emergency relief to the victims. It also underscored the urgency of establishing effective mechanisms to cope with natural disasters around the world, including the importance of early warning systems. With those lessons in mind, natural disasters will be a primary issue for debate at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting, which my country is hosting in Busan in November. Meanwhile, we reaffirm our support for the reform of United Nations humanitarian aid agencies to enhance their efficiency and effectiveness in helping countries to recover from disaster and rebuild their capacities for sustainable development. We mark the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations with mixed feelings. On the one hand, there is much hope. It is the hope of the entire international community for the United Nations to prevail over the new challenges of the twenty-first century and to assume a more central role in strengthening peace and security, promoting prosperity and spreading democracy and human rights around the world. On the other hand, there is widespread disappointment. It has become painfully clear that the United Nations as it stands today is unfit to carry out the demands of these complex times. Between the hope and the disappointment, there is much uncertainty. But of one thing I am certain: all of us gathered here are united in the conviction that the hope must triumph over the disappointment; that we must rise to the occasion and make the United Nations fit for the twenty-first century. Indeed, our global body must be strengthened with far-reaching reforms that are in step with the dynamic challenges of a borderless and fluid world. Those reforms should be comprehensive — encompassing all the elements of the system — and realized in such a way as to give all Members, large and small, a sense of ownership in the process and the outcome. Faithful to the guidance provided in the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting, and in synergistic cooperation with one another, all stakeholders — Member States, the Secretariat, the funds and programmes, specialized agencies and other constituents of the United Nations system — must seize this opportunity for renewal and revitalization. Indeed, we must engage in a genuine exercise in multilateralism to strengthen our global body. Reform of the Security Council must be pursued to enhance its accountability, transparency and efficiency. My delegation believes that increasing the number of non-permanent seats on the Council, with no addition of permanent seats, is the best way to foster broad-based consensus on this vital issue. The Secretariat has long served the collective will and interests of the Member States of the United Nations. The contributions of those who have served in the United Nations system with dedication and professionalism should be highly praised. However, the credibility and integrity of the system have been damaged by recent revelations of mismanagement and corruption. The maladministration of the oil-for-food programme, as Mr. Volcker stated in delivering his fourth report to the Security Council, should not be seen as a lone case but as symptomatic of deep-seated systemic issues of an Organization designed for simpler times. Reform, as he further stated, is urgent. Without bold reforms to restore the trust and support of the global community, enhance efficacy and improve 16 the morale of staff, the system will not be able to live up to the growing expectations of the twenty-first century. Underscoring the vital importance of this issue, the High-level Plenary Meeting has fully endorsed the management reform initiatives taken by the Secretary- General. With the active support and encouragement of Member States, those initiatives should quickly bear fruit, providing strengthened accountability and oversight, higher performance and ethical standards for staff, and greater authority and responsibility for the Secretary-General as the chief administrative officer of the Organization. The challenges facing the United Nations today are daunting. Some may find them insurmountable. But we are a country that was born and developed alongside the United Nations over the past 60 years, receiving particularly active assistance from it in earlier decades. We have full confidence in the future of the Organization. Now a maturing democracy that upholds human rights, an emerging donor that seeks to do its share in helping others, and a staunch advocate of peace and effective multilateralism, the Republic of Korea is fully committed to bringing greater vitality and reliability to the United Nations. At the High-level Plenary the leaders of the world gave us guiding words for making the United Nations a more effective and relevant instrument for realizing the aspirations of the global community in the twenty-first century. We must not let those words remain just words. Let us proceed with vigour and dedication to put them into action.It is my distinct pleasure to express to you and to your friendly country, the Kingdom of Sweden, my most sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency at this sixtieth session of the General Assembly and to wish you every success in your mission. I also express to your predecessor Mr. Jean Ping, my deep appreciation for his excellent management of the proceedings of the previous session. Allow me to take this opportunity to convey my thanks and appreciation to the Secretary-General, commending his diligent efforts in assisting the Organization to play its role and achieve its noble objectives of maintaining peace and security and furthering development in the world. Tunisia, which celebrates, along with other members of the international community the sixtieth anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations, reiterates its constant commitment to the noble principles of the Charter and reaffirms its determination to continue to contribute, so that the Organization may be as effective as possible. Our world today is witnessing rapid and successive developments, often marked by an increase of tensions and the widening of the development gap between the North and the South. This requires that we intensify our consultations and coordination on the question of reforming the United Nations and developing its institutions, in accordance with a comprehensive vision based on enhancing solidarity, mutual assistance and partnership among peoples so that our Organization will be able to deal with current international issues efficiently. Many of those issues still constitute a source of concern for the international community, because of their impact on security and stability, and foremost among them is the Middle East problem. In keeping with its commitment, and that of its President, His Excellency President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, to peace as a strategic choice, Tunisia has contributed to all efforts and initiatives aimed at reaching a just, comprehensive and durable settlement to the Palestinian question. We reiterate our call to all parties, more particularly to the Quartet, to take advantage of recent positive developments in the region in order to resume peace negotiations, thus allowing the Palestinian people to recover their legitimate national rights and establish their own 20 independent State on their land as well as bringing security, stability and prosperity to all peoples of the region. We feel that achieving just, comprehensive and durable peace in the Middle East requires the recovery by sisterly Syria and Lebanon of all their occupied territories. We also express the hope that sisterly Iraq will complete its political process and strengthen its constitutional institutions in accordance with the aspirations of the Iraqi people, within a context of security, stability and national unity. Tunisia welcomes the important steps taken by the Sudanese Government towards national reconciliation, in keeping with the aspirations of the Sudanese people to the consolidation of security and stability in that country. Tunisia is sparing no effort, along with the other sisterly Arab countries, in laying the foundations for a new phase of joint Arab action, promoting cooperation in all the political, economic and cultural fields, and reinforcing the process of development and modernization, in line with the proposals made and decisions taken by the Arab Summit in May 2004, which Tunisia had the honour to host. We are also keen on consolidating the bonds of fraternity and cooperation with all fellow Arab Maghreb countries and completing the process of building the Arab Maghreb Union, thus meeting the aspirations of the peoples of the Maghreb to development and complementarity. Although it has witnessed a number of positive developments, the African continent continues to suffer from the persistence of tensions and conflicts in many of its regions. Additional efforts are required in order to take further steps towards their settlement. Bringing to completion the establishment of the basic structures of the African Union would enable African countries to move ahead in promoting cooperation and reinforcing the foundations of security and stability in the continent. This, in turn, will encourage development in African countries and facilitate their integration into the world economy. At the Euro-Mediterranean level, Tunisia is entering a new phase in its relations with the European Union, a phase marked by a determination to further promote, develop and enlarge the scope of partnership with that Union on the basis of cooperation, solidarity, complementarity and mutual respect, in line with the purposes and principles adopted at the Barcelona Conference as we prepare to celebrate the tenth anniversary of its Declaration. Tunisia is also endeavouring to strengthen ties of friendship and enlarge the scope of cooperation with the countries of the American and Asian continents in order to establish a solidarity-based partnership that will lay the foundations for a new stage in these relations. That would serve the interests of all parties, bring their peoples closer to one another and contribute to consolidating the foundations of stability, peace and prosperity in the world. The intensification of violence and terrorism, despite the joint efforts undertaken for many years to confront that grave scourge, deepens our conviction that the most effective way to deal with terrorism is by unifying our methods for tackling it, thereby strengthening the capacity of the international community to confront terrorism and eradicate its root causes. In that regard, His Excellency President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali proposed the convening of an international conference under United Nations auspices aimed at establishing a binding international code of conduct on combating terrorism. Proceeding from its steadfast adherence to the principles of solidarity and dialogue among peoples and its continuing endeavours to strengthen stability and development in the world, Tunisia will take an active role in achieving the objectives spelled out in the Millennium Declaration and in finding appropriate solutions to the international issues we face today. In that regard, we would mention the General Assembly’s adoption of the Tunisian proposal for the establishment of a World Solidarity Fund. The international community must now provide the necessary financial resources so that the Fund can launch its activities and achieve its noble objectives of reducing poverty and famine, particularly in some regions of Africa. Tunisia calls for the strengthening of world solidarity, the benefits of which were most recently manifested in the international efforts to alleviate the enormous damage caused by both the tsunami disaster and hurricane Katrina. 21 As we prepare to host the second phase of the World Summit on the Information Society — held in response to a Tunisian proposal dating back to 1998 — Tunisia is looking forward to the high-level international participation of Governments, the private sector and civil society in that important global event in order to give it the best possible chance of success. A successful outcome will help to establish a solidarity-based digital culture that allows developing countries to benefit from the vast prospects offered by information and communication technologies and to make the best use of them in their development plans. Furthermore, Tunisia wishes to express its thanks and appreciation to all Member States and to the international and regional organizations that have contributed to the success of its international initiative to proclaim 2005 the International Year of Sport and Physical Education in the service of peace, security and development in the world. Tunisia will continue to make an effective contribution to strengthening the culture of dialogue and the values of tolerance and cultural communication among civilizations and among all the world’s countries and peoples, and to work against fanaticism and isolationism. We once again underline the importance of those values in spreading security, peace and stability throughout the world, thus freeing humanity to direct its efforts towards comprehensive and sustainable development in a spirit of optimism and confidence in a better future.I wish to join other representatives in congratulating you, Sir, on your unanimous election as the President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I am confident that, under your able guidance, the General Assembly will respond wisely and effectively to the needs and expectations of the international community. I would like to assure you of Cambodia's full support and cooperation as you carry out the duties and tasks of your high office. While commending the efforts and contributions of Mr. Jean Ping, President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session, I wish also to express my appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his political vision and his firm commitment to the efforts to strengthen and revitalize the role of the United Nations in securing international peace, strengthening international security and forging international cooperation. In these times of uncertainties and difficulties, when the world seems to be inundated by conflicts and tribulations, the summit of the General Assembly and the outcome document reaffirmed our commitment to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and provided us with a new hope for achieving our noble goals of strengthening peace and stability in the world, a sine qua non for the development and prosperity of all humankind. Admittedly, the outcome document did not respond to all of our concerns, but it gave us a framework for our future action. It is important for us to keep hope alive and to maintain our commitment to global peace and to taking the necessary steps to ensure that that noble goal will one day be achieved. As a country that has just emerged from many years of war and internal conflicts, Cambodia understands the paramount importance of peace. Cambodia is firmly convinced that more weapons will not bring more security to the world. Disarmament, like any other matter on our agenda today, cannot be dealt with in isolation. There is an urgent need for that matter to be dealt with at the national, regional and international levels. We are of the view that the promotion of confidence-building measures is necessary in that endeavour. The experiences gained by the Regional Forum of the Association of South-East Asian Nations ó now in its eleventh year of existence ó have confirmed the rightness of that approach. This explains the rationale behind Cambodia's ratification of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction on 19 July 2005. Cambodia is a proponent of the reinforcement of international law, which, inter alia, incorporates the major instruments to curb the arms race, including the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. We note with dismay and deep concern that the recent NPT Review Conference ended without achieving any results, and we regret the failure to reach consensus on that very crucial issue in the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting. Cambodia profoundly believes in the necessity and benefit of disarmament. We believe that people need food, not weapons. After 11 September 2001, security perceptions have changed drastically. Nobody and no country is safe from terrorism, which has caused untold suffering and death among innocent people and knows no distinction between the rich and the poor, the powerful and the powerless, between a super-Power and a little speck in the ocean, as we have seen in many parts of the world. When death strikes, we are all the same. The security of our people cannot be assured and ensured through weaponry and sophisticated technology alone. Another threat created by the force of nature, Hurricane Katrina, which devastated the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and even Florida, reinforced us in that conviction. The human brain is a decisive factor of and the essence behind our efforts to counter security threats and threats of any other nature. Therefore, it is more important than ever that our strategies be preventive, comprehensive, inclusive and global in nature. I would like to take this opportunity to express, on behalf of the people and the Royal Government of Cambodia, my profound condolences to the families of the victims who have lost their lives, as well as deepest sympathy for the survivors of that tragic incident. During the summit, our leaders endorsed the Secretary-General's identification of elements of a counter-terrorism strategy. Such a strategy would contribute to our concerted efforts to fight terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, which would be undertaken in full respect of human rights and fundamental freedom. I hope that our joint efforts will 18 lead to an agreement on the comprehensive convention on international terrorism. As part of the Government's policy of playing an active role in international efforts to combat terrorism, in particular by fulfilling its obligations spelled out by the Counter-Terrorism Committee of the United Nations, Cambodia has implemented some necessary measures recently. Among other things, we are in the process of finalizing our national anti-terrorism law. As we have learned through our experience over the years, the causes of terrorism do not arise spontaneously. Only through continuous and consistent efforts to promote tolerance, social development, economic growth and democracy, and to build a global coalition involving all civilizations, all religions, all cultures and all political systems can we fight injustice, poverty and the other roots of those malicious and often lethal acts. Those long-term measures are of significance in our mission effectively to prevent acts of violence and extreme aggression. Sixty years ago, the United Nations was established to spare future generations from the scourge of war. However, the foundation of peace lies in the success of our respective Governments, their peoples and the world community at large in forging their future and the future of their children through better health care, education and economic and professional opportunities in a safe and secure social environment that abides by the rule of law and the culture of merit and honesty. It goes without saying that development is the cement for peace. Development in one part of the world cannot be sustained without development elsewhere. Cambodia believes in national ownership in devising strategies to develop itself. We also believe in the crucial importance and necessity of international partnership. We equally believe in the importance of good governance at the national, international and corporate levels. How could we explain our mutual dependency otherwise? Transparency and mutual accountability are the best guarantees of a successful partnership. Cambodia has expressed its full commitment to the Millennium Declaration. In 2003, Cambodia localized the global Millennium Development Goals, which it calls the Cambodia Millennium Development Goals (CMDGs). The CMDGs, which reflect the realities of Cambodia, are based on a strong national consensus. Specific indicators have been adopted for each CMDG, including the benchmarks and the short-, medium- and long-term values to be achieved by 2005, 2010 and 2015. In all, the CMDGs cover nine areas of long-term and short-term goals, 25 overall targets, and 106 specific targets covering extreme poverty and hunger; universal, nine-year basic education; gender equality and women's empowerment; child mortality; maternal health; HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases; environmental sustainability; global partnership for development; and demining, unexploded ordinance and victim assistance. At present, Cambodia is in the process of preparing a national strategic development plan for 2006-2010 by combining its earlier socio-economic development plan and its national poverty reduction strategy processes and integrating them into the CMDGs. The resulting CMDG-based national poverty reduction strategy will be rooted in the ìrectangular strategyî for growth, employment, equity and efficiency, which provides the political platform of the Royal Government in the third legislature (2004-2008) of Cambodia's National Assembly. Our progress towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals is constrained by a number of impediments, including the chronic shortage of investment funds to meet our priority requirements. That resource gap needs to be bridged through increased flows of external finance. That is necessary since the current concessions given by the international community to least developed countries like Cambodia provide only limited benefit to us and need to be supplemented by increased inflows of development finance. If we are to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, greater financial inflows through aid, reduced debt servicing and increased current account inflows are critical to bridging the resource gaps and fostering the required growth. It is in that connection that we would like to reiterate our call for the implementation of the Brussels Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries. We welcome the establishment of timetables by many developed countries to achieve the target of 0.7 per cent of gross national income for official development assistance by no later than 2015 and to reach at least 0.5 per cent by 2009. We urge those developed countries that have not yet done so to make concrete efforts and invite them to establish timetables for achieving the target of 0.7 per cent. We also urge 19 those developed countries to achieve the target of 0.15 to 0.20 per cent of gross national income for official development assistance to the least developed countries. The Royal Government of Cambodia welcomes the resumption of the six-party talks on the Korean peninsula. Equally crucial is the continuation of the inter-Korean dialogue. It is our belief that open channels of communication are essential in building a strong foundation for attempts to pursue peace and stability in the Korean peninsula. We also welcome the recent positive developments in the Middle East and continue to encourage the implementation of the road map and the relevant Security Council resolutions. After all the years of war and conflict, we reiterate our call on both sides to continue taking steps towards peace, no matter how small they might seem at the time, in order to give the children of Palestine and Israel the opportunity to live in harmony. The dire situation in Africa deserves our outmost concern and action. Too many African children and adults have suffered too long from too many conflicts. At the end of the day, the world community, through the United Nations and the Group of Eight leading industrial countries should strive to make more efficient efforts and to take timely action to tackle the severe plights of numerous innocent people in sub- Saharan Africa. It is important for us never to lose hope, because, as history has shown us, hope is what carries us through difficult times and dreadful challenges. Because of hope, we lend a hand to others. Because of hope, we let ourselves be assisted by others. Although we are indeed facing an uphill battle in our attempts to overcome the challenges of peace, security and development together, our noble goals to provide a better future for our children and grandchildren will be achieved. Let us have faith in our common house, the United Nations.Mr. President, your election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly is indisputably an historic moment, which Gabon appreciates fully, since your country has succeeded Gabon in this post. Thus, I should like to congratulate you most warmly on behalf of my delegation and assure you of Gabon’s support throughout your term. I should also like to express my gratitude to the Secretary-General for his immense, bold and tireless actions in favour of the reinvigoration and the restoration of the prestige of the United Nations system. Allow me also to pay well-deserved tribute to the President of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, Minister of State and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Cooperation and Francophonie of the Republic of Gabon, for his outstanding contribution to the reform of our Organization. The important document adopted last Friday by the High-level Meeting testifies to this reform effort. I therefore welcome the fact that you have invited us to focus our debate on the follow-up to the measures adopted by the world leaders last week. Today, 60 years after its creation, the United Nations has stood the test of time. The dysfunctions noted recently highlight the need to press ahead with essential institutional reform. In that connection, a comment by Montesquieu comes to mind and I quote, “When a good thing has disadvantages, it is better to do away with the disadvantages than with the thing itself.” The author of The Spirit of Laws was suggesting that we need to make a distinction between ideals and human endeavour. More than an end in itself, the reform process must, whenever necessary, make it possible to adapt the United Nations to the demands of the times and to the many complex mandates entrusted to it. In this context, we should pay particular attention to the General Assembly. It is the most representative forum of the international community, a site par excellence for cooperation, for negotiation and for sharing responsibilities. The United Nations is the seat of legitimacy and moral authority at the international level and it participates in the ideal of shared destinies of nations and the peoples of the world. This is why Gabon reiterates yet again its support for initiatives aimed at a consensus-based reform of the Security Council, as the Council’s expansion should derive from the dual need for representativity and effectiveness. Once reformed, the United Nations can deal better with the many challenges facing humankind today, such as HIV/AIDS, environmental degradation, terrorism, armed conflicts and poverty. The HIV/AIDS pandemic, which affects rich and poor nations alike without distinction, is a serious threat to sparsely- populated countries such as Gabon. More than ever, developing countries call upon the international community to display effective and active solidarity in order to limit the worst effects of this pandemic. Since vaccine experiments have not yet been conclusive, and the therapeutic trials are still insufficient, efforts must be focused on prevention and on access to antiretroviral drugs in accordance with the agreement concluded within the context of the World Trade Organization. Gabon itself has taken solid initiatives, ranging from awareness campaigns to the implementation of action plans such as the multisectoral strategic plan to combat AIDS, in which the First Lady of Gabon, Madame Edith Lucie Bongo Ondimba, is personally involved. We welcome the fact that the final document of the High-level Meeting reaffirmed the commitment of the international community to fight HIV-AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and other infectious diseases. It is undeniable that the global challenges are numerous and interdependent. Environmental degradation has become one of the main threats to life on earth. The consequences of climate change caused by human activity are at the root of natural disasters that are unprecedented in scale. The future of generations to come is thus compromised. It is in this context that the concept of sustainable development, which means in fact intergenerational solidarity, must be made systematic, so as to underlie both public and private policies. 27 Certainly, the Stockholm conference in 1972 that led to the establishment of the United Nations Environment Programme, the Rio Conference on Environment and Development in 1992 and the Johannesburg Conference in 2002 were important stages in the growing awareness of the international community. But, we can and must do better. The French proposal aimed at creating a United Nations organization for the environment, in addition to existing mechanisms, seems to us in this respect very timely. We should ensure follow-up to this idea, as proposed by the final document of the High-level Meeting. Likewise, following an integrated approach, we support the actions taken by the International Organization of la Francophonie to promote the environment and sustainable development. The most recent Summit of Heads of State of la Francophonie, which was held in Ouagadougou from 26 to 27 November 2004, adopted a document along these lines entitled “A strategic ten-year framework for biodiversity and the protection of the environment throughout the francophone area”. The common heritage of the environment must be the subject of more ambitious and more generous international cooperation that seeks to reduce the gap between two sets of partners that often have contradictory expectations, that is, on the one hand, the developed countries, and, on the other, the developing countries. What can we say about terrorism, that tentacled creature, that inscrutable threat, whose ubiquity evades vigilance and even punitive measures? Friendly countries have recently endured tragic experiences, and others, unfortunately, have them nearly every day. It has to be said that on 11 September 2001 terrorism sounded the death knell for any feeling of safety. One of the notable points of the final documents of the High-level Meeting of last week is the firm and unambiguous condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. This is notable progress that will, I am sure, facilitate the efforts of the international community aimed at adopting a comprehensive convention on international terrorism, a task on which the sixtieth session of the General Assembly must focus and to which it must devote itself. Wishing to support the efforts of the international community to stem this scourge, the Head of State of Gabon has just signed the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. “Peace within, peace with others and peace amongst others” is a tradition on which Gabon prides itself, a tradition that reflects the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. At the beginning of the third millennium, many African countries were still in the grip of instability and armed conflicts. To find a way out of that impasse and steer towards a more stable and prosperous Africa, African heads of State and Government set up mechanisms within the African Union such as the Peace and Security Council, which seeks to manage political crises and intra-State conflicts. The objective of the African States is to equip themselves with the means to ensure their own security. It is clear that regional mechanisms cannot manage indefinitely without bilateral agreements, multilateral cooperation and other relevant alliances. In this respect, allow me to commend the active role taken by the United Nations in maintaining peace in Africa, particularly in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire and the Sudan. We also note with satisfaction NATO’s willingness to accept the unprecedented invitation of the African Union, made by the Chairman of the Commission, Alpha Oumar Konaré. Allow me also to stress here the role played by Gabon in all of these peace processes, which have resulted in a gradual improvement in the security situation on the continent. The President of the Republic of Gabon, El Hadj Omar Bongo Ondimba, has been fully involved, along with his African peers, in the resolution of African crises — consistently offering his good offices and mediation services whenever requested. Given the current situation in the Sudan, with the tragic death of the Vice-President, John Garang, the international community as a whole must ensure that the ceasefire agreement signed in January 2005 holds — a necessary condition for the consolidation of peace and peacebuilding. I call on the parties concerned to respect their commitments in order that the peace process now under way may be concluded. With respect to Central Africa, we welcome the relative calm seen in countries that were recently in crisis, particularly in the Central African Republic, Burundi and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I should like here to welcome the conclusion of the 28 electoral process in Burundi and to express thanks for the contribution made by the United Nations, the African Union and South Africa. Gabon, which made its own modest contribution to the process, humbly encourages all of the new leaders to display political clear-sightedness and tolerance, with a view to the achievement of lasting peace. Their decision to create a Peacebuilding Commission will no doubt help to enhance the United Nations peacekeeping machinery. As regards the economy, I need hardly recall that debt represents a major handicap for our countries. Indeed, nearly a third of our financial resources are devoted to debt servicing. Thus once again we would draw the attention of the international community to the specific situation involving the indebtedness of middle-income countries like Gabon. Indeed, Gabon remains the only country in sub- Saharan Africa classified as a high-level middle- income country, thus making it ineligible for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative, despite the political and economic reforms under way for more than a decade. The current surge in the price of oil — our State’s main budget resource — further fuels the illusion of a monetary surplus and does not really help us in the area of development financing, since the oil bonus basically goes to service external debt. It is true that at the Gleneagles, United Kingdom, summit last July, endorsing the London Declaration of 11 June 2005, the G-8 countries and other donors undertook important commitments. Gabon, for its part, would like to see those commitments translated into action, so as to increase the likelihood of achieving the Millennium Development Goals, to which my country is particularly committed. I also welcome the fact that the summit’s final document recognized the urgent need to redouble efforts to achieve development objectives agreed at the international level, including the Millennium Development Goals. In conclusion, I should like to express the hope that the work of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session will be crowned with success, so that together we can work to bring about a community of peoples and nations living in peace, security and stability. May God inspire our work.I extend to you, Sir, our warmest congratulations as you assume the high office of the President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. We wish you all the best and assure you of Sri Lankaís support and cooperation in your work. I convey gratitude to Mr. Jean Ping for his astute leadership of the fifty-ninth session. This sixtieth landmark session of the General Assembly is doubly significant for Sri Lanka, as this year we mark the fiftieth anniversary of our membership in the United Nations. As a small nation that has kept the flame of democracy burning through many tribulations, we take modest pride in the fact that what we said at the first session of the General Assembly we addressed can still be recalled with undiminished relevance. Prime Minister Bandaranaike, representing Sri Lanka, said on that occasion: 'This is an Organization which expresses itself most effectively by bringing to bear a certain moral force - the collective moral force and decency of human beings. That is a task in which the weak as well as the strong can render a useful service, and I give the Assembly the assurance, on behalf of my country, that as far as we are concerned, every endeavour that we can make in all sincerity to assist in the achievements of those noble ideals for which this Organization stands will always be forthcoming in the fullest measure.' (Official Records of the General Assembly, Eleventh Session, Plenary Meetings, 590th meeting, para. 42) Five decades on, I have the pleasure to say that my country has kept that promise by regularly contributing to consensus-building in the Organization in areas ranging from the law of the sea to disarmament and from human rights to the issue of terrorism. We remain fully committed to the United Nations. We continue to believe that the collective moral force of this Organization is indispensable for a secure, peaceful and humane world. We are convinced that such a world can be realized through the honest commitment of every Member State to its individual 2 and collective responsibilities. Our peoples live in the hope and expectation that we shall deliver. On the morning of 26 December 2004, Sri Lanka and several other countries around the Indian Ocean region woke up to a natural disaster of unprecedented magnitude. Towering tsunami waves struck two thirds of the coastal areas of our island nation, leaving in its wake death and destruction on a scale hitherto unknown by the world. Moved by the enormous scale of that calamity, Governments, the United Nations and other international organizations, civil society organizations and countless well-wishers across the world rushed to help my country and its people to recover, rehabilitate and rebuild. It was a magnificent gesture of human solidarity. Citizens of the world reached out beyond the confines of geopolitical and other man-made barriers in one magnificent gesture of human generosity. That rekindled in us new confidence in the power of peoples acting in unison across the world to move Governments to act in the best interests of humankind for a new and better world. On behalf of my people and my Government, I wish to convey my profound appreciation and gratitude to all those who assisted and sympathized with us and contributed generously to rebuild our country. Let me take this opportunity to extend a special word of thanks to President Clinton, the United Nations Special Envoy for Tsunami Recovery, for his commitment and leadership in coordinating the ongoing international effort for sustainable recovery. Just as my country was in national distress in the aftermath of the tsunami disaster, we are now in distress in the face of an ominous renewal of terror on our soil. One month ago, my dear colleague Lakshman Kadirgamar, the Foreign Minister of Sri Lanka, was assassinated by a calculated and barbaric act of terrorism. One more hero who fought relentlessly for freedom and justice has been felled by the enemies of peace and unity. As Foreign Minister, the late Mr. Kadirgamar argued powerfully and worked tirelessly against extremist racist ideologies that employ violence to gain their divisive objectives. He was bold enough to expose to the world the true face of terrorism inflicted upon my country. For 11 long years, from this very podium, Mr. Kadirgamar warned the Assembly about the threat posed by terrorism to the democratic way of life, not only in Sri Lanka but across the world. For over two decades, Sri Lanka has been under sustained assault by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), an armed group that employs brutal methods and suicide bombings in its campaign of terror to obtain a separate State. Disregarding the implementation of the ceasefire agreement, that group continues to engage in numerous illegal and terrorist activities. Those include the conscription of children as soldiers - in callous disregard for promises given to many, including the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Children and Armed Conflict - and the assassination of democratic opponents, as part of their policy of eliminating Tamil political leaders and human rights activists, with disdain for all international law and practice and despite sustained efforts by my Government and Norwegian facilitators. I tend to doubt that the Security Councilís recent identification of that group in connection with child conscription would suffice to deter such activities. Targeted sanctions such as those proposed by Secretary-General Kofi Annan in his report to the Security Council should be imposed on those armed groups that undermine national and international peace and violate human rights. I firmly believe that terrorism cannot be eliminated through military suppression by State machinery. The socio-economic and cultural roots of a conflict must be sought and effectively redressed. We recognize that a lasting solution to ethnic issues and to terrorism in my country, or anywhere else, can only be found through negotiation and dialogue. Accordingly, my Government was the first, in 1994, to offer a negotiated settlement in place of an armed conflict, as well as an extensive devolution of power instead of a separate State. In February 2002, the Government entered into a ceasefire agreement with the rebel group and began talks, with the facilitation of the Government of Norway. However, two and a half years ago, the LTTE walked away from the peace talks for the sixth time in 18 years. All efforts to have the talks renewed have so far failed. As a measure of good will after the tsunami disaster struck us, I agreed to an arrangement with the rebels for joint action in tsunami reconstruction work. That was yet another measure in a long series of efforts to engage and work with the rebels, particularly in humanitarian ventures, despite their obdurate insistence to remain armed and remain uncontested by any other democratic Tamil political party. 3 My Government has reaffirmed its commitment to the ceasefire and the peace talks. We continue to do all that is required by a democratic Government to ensure that we do not return to armed conflict, fulfilling the wishes of all our people. A peace process cannot, and does not, operate in a vacuum. People demand that a process of peace should include the commitment and good conduct of all parties to a conflict. When a belligerent group - a non-State actor - exploits the unique position offered to it by a peace process to utilize the freedom guaranteed under a democratic system of governance to strengthen itself through infiltration and the coercion of civilians, organizations and political parties, that impinges seriously on the ability of an elected Government to move forward effectively in its efforts at reconciliation and peace. The restoration of democracy, the creation of space for dissent and the promotion of human rights in the affected areas in the north and the east of our country are now essential prerequisites for a successful and meaningful peace process in Sri Lanka. A lasting political solution can come to fruition only when the rebel group becomes a democratic civilian organization. That deserves the fullest support of the international community. As we have been for many long years, Sri Lanka remains firmly committed to the global endeavour to fight terrorism in all its aspects. No cause justifies the indiscriminate unleashing of terror upon the innocent. Sri Lanka has accordingly signed and ratified all United Nations conventions aimed at combating terrorism. We earnestly hope that at this session it will be possible to conclude work on the comprehensive convention on international terrorism, in order to complete and strengthen the international legal framework to combat terrorism through collective measures. Sri Lanka will continue to provide its contribution to facilitate a consensus in its capacity as Chair of the United Nations Ad Hoc Committee on this subject. Sri Lanka has pledged to meet the United Nations Millennium Development Goals by the year 2015. We have already achieved the targeted goals in primary education and in infant and maternal mortality. We are committed to further promoting the political and economic empowerment of women so that gender equality becomes a matter of human rights and social justice. Our National Child Protection Authority implements many programmes to eliminate abuse and violence against children and to ensure their protection as well as their right to freely enjoy life's most precious gift, childhood. Our success is due to the outcome of sustained efforts in policy planning and implementation. Those benchmarks and other indicators manifesting the high physical quality of life enjoyed by our people will be further elevated as we strive to meet the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. However, poverty remains a major challenge for us. To eradicate this scourge, we are now taking further steps through the adoption of economic and social programmes, in cooperation with our bilateral and multilateral development partners. If we look at the current world health situation, although smallpox has been eradicated and polio is on the verge of being eliminated, there are other diseases ó often associated with poverty - that continue to take a heavy human toll, especially in developing countries. Every year, 6 million children die from malnutrition before their fifth birthday. More than 50 per cent of people in Africa suffer from water- related diseases such as cholera. HIV/AIDS kills 6,000 people every day. Each year, more than 300 million people are infected with malaria. New challenges, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome and avian influenza, indicate that national borders offer little protection against such proliferating pandemics. In the face of unparalleled advances, both in technology and in human mobility, it is unconscionable to let some in our nations suffer from diseases that can be controlled, if not eliminated. In my view, there are three evils plaguing our world today that can have no place in the modern globalizing era of the twenty-first century: poverty, disease and terrorism. Today, these evils affect the social, cultural and economic well-being of a majority of humankind. No country can deal with them on its own. International cooperation is in our self-interest and needs to be mustered. We share the strong belief that the United Nations, on the occasion of its sixtieth anniversary, should seriously undertake comprehensive reforms so that the Organization is fully equipped to 4 meet new challenges, taking into account the current global realities. We acknowledge with appreciation the valuable contribution made by the Secretary-General and his team to the ongoing reform process, which made possible the adoption of the outcome document (resolution 60/1) at the recent summit of the Organization. We urge all Member States to work together to build on that framework in order to operationalize what has been agreed and to work further on what remains to be achieved. Recovery after the tsunami disaster taught us the value and potential of humanity acting in unison when fellow human beings are in distress. We now hope that the same human spirit and common interests will continue to prevail in addressing the socio-economic and security challenges we face. Let us resolve to commit ourselves collectively, on this solemn occasion of the sixtieth anniversary of the Organization, to act together in the interest of humankind in order that we may strive to eliminate the three scourges of poverty, disease and terrorism.At the beginning of the third millennium, faster means of travel that began in the nineteenth century with railroad technology are today hurtling us around the globe at even faster speeds. Dramatic changes are taking place at all levels and in all modes of communication. From the train, to the automobile and to the airplane, even in space travel, speed is erasing spatial barriers. The telegraph, the telephone, the Internet, cell phones, video conferencing: speed is altering the way we communicate with one another. In this new age, immensely significant developments can take place as more quickly than the mind can follow them. But as the philosopher Paul Virillio warns us, with every new technology comes the potential for a new accident and with increasing speed comes the threat of ever more horrendous catastrophes. Natural disasters have become magnified not only by increases in population, but by the growing dangers of environmental pollution. Sixty years after the founding of the United Nations, we live in a faster world, where we have to be able to react to events almost immediately. We have to ensure that even with the feeling of heightened risk that we live with at the beginning of the twenty-first century — whether this be due to natural phenomena, advances in technology, the threat of terrorism or the frittering away of resources — our will to act is not in any way diminished. The bar is set very high, but our capacity to act together as a whole can be just as great. Another period of technological innovation also affected dramatic changes in the speed and mode of communication - the printing press. Let us reflect for a moment about the effects of those changes and what we might learn from them. The printing press fostered a rapid exchange of information that was readily available to large numbers of people and could not be censored or controlled, although some institutions tried very hard to enact such controls. Out of this explosion of information came the glory of a scientific revolution but also the sixteenth-century wars of religion and Europe’s first world war, the Thirty Years War of the first half of the seventeenth century. The promise of eventual mastery over the natural world was coupled with violent attempts to dominate the minds and souls of man. In many ways, our own information revolution has had a similar effect on developments. On the one hand, we have reason to hope that the problems facing the world can be solved by technology; on the other hand, technology has contributed to the rise of extremism and provided the means to unleash violence of hitherto unknown proportions. The radical enlightenment, which first began in the Netherlands, a small country but one known for its tolerance and liberty of creative thought, offered new solutions to the turmoil and sectarian violence of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. It developed a mode of critique that could be separated from religious truth, and, for the first time in the history of the West, a fully modern ethical system. What forms might a radical twenty-first century enlightenment take? I would rather hope that we will see a new sense of 22 human values, a recognition that we are united not only by our presence in a shrinking world but as members of the human race. We are fully aware that even as this explosion in technology seems to link all countries in the embrace of a globalized media culture, it feeds old parochialisms, nationalism and ethnic strife. The gap between rich and poor, the have and have-not countries, seems ever wider, even as our interconnectedness grows in trade and in labour. But with visions of first-world excess beamed into every comer of the globe, can anyone be surprised that anger towards the West increases? Poverty, discrimination, war, hunger and disease — this is the daily lot for a great part of humanity. We see the images every day. We cannot ignore nor can we fear these realities. We have to face them with real development policies coupled with good governance and a just system for trade and dialogue. The Millennium Development Goals are our collective responsibility. The legacy of the Renaissance nation State remains a powerful concept. Our love for our respective countries and all that this represents to us is a defining aspect of our identities. So how is it possible to overcome the fundamental paradox of this Organization — to link the pride of our national statehood, which is the source of our material, cultural and ethnic differences, to the idea of unity, of being “united”. In part, the answer seems to lie in the potential for rebalancing the global economy, but it also requires a reawakening of those dulled sensibilities that separate rich from poor, the advantaged from the disadvantaged, the free from the oppressed. The Millennium Declaration was a necessary step forward, and the current tensions over reform should not distract this body from its ultimate mission. Whether we are speeding towards challenges that will take the form of natural or man-made catastrophes, we can be assured that their effects will no longer be contained within national borders. We must prepare to respond to them with a strength and resolve that also knows no bounds. Before, I spoke of a small country, the Netherlands, and of its history. Andorra is also a small country that believes in tolerance and respect for our fellow man. Our stable relations with our neighbours, Andorra’s tradition as a safe haven during European wars and conflicts, our parliamentary tradition that stretches back to 1419 and our geopolitical realities, all make us believe in and defend the virtues and values of dialogue, pacifism and development, which are at one with those of the United Nations. In twelve years of international life, my country has adopted some 130 international conventions and has stated its firm belief in international law, as in the creation of the International Criminal Court. We will continue in this task, reaffirming our commitment to multilateralism, and by sending to Parliament for ratification the conventions on terrorism and human rights. We also give our support to the creation of a Council of Human Rights, and we will follow closely the progress made on a new convention in the struggle against terrorism. The United Nations represents a legacy from a period of conflict which culminated in the Second World War, the Cold War, and the nuclear stalemate that followed. While we recognize its imperfections, we must not forget to acknowledge the wisdom of its guiding principles: peace between all nations, universal human rights, and the development of states. We live in a time when the power of a single nation is fast becoming an historical illusion. Let us work towards a new enlightenment, the unity of the United Nations. It is time to work together for the United Nations.Let me begin by congratulating the President of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, for his tireless efforts in the lead-up to the summit meeting and for his contribution to the elaboration and adoption of the outcome document (resolution 60/1). Mongolia considers the outcome document, with all its omissions, to be another important milestone in forging global consensus on development, and pledges to contribute its modest share to the successful implementation of the commitments contained therein. In this connection, I would also like to commend our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his leadership and vision and to wish him well in his bold reform activities. I also warmly congratulate Mr. Jan Eliasson on his well- deserved election to the presidency and express our confidence that his skill, experience and intimate knowledge of the matters at hand will enable us to successfully follow through on the commitments made by our leaders last week in this Assembly. Mongolia is poised to achieve most of its Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) on education, gender, child and maternal health and combating various diseases by 2015. Capitalizing on its 1990s system of public health and education and a traditional culture of gender equality, Mongolia is well on track to achieve, by 2015, universal primary education and literacy, eliminate gender disparity at all levels of education, and reduce its child mortality rate by two thirds and maternal mortality rate by three fourths. However, the most important goal of halving poverty by 2015 looks highly elusive, if not unachievable, at the moment. Aware of its responsibility for its own development, Mongolia has, by and large, managed its public finances responsibly and maintained macroeconomic stability. It has done its utmost to adopt and implement sound national policies and development strategies and to introduce good governance and the rule of law. Yet, like many other small, vulnerable and commodity-dependent economies, Mongolia’s development is severely handicapped by many factors well beyond its control. Skyrocketing oil prices, for instance, are taking a serious toll on economic growth, engulfing whatever gains we made earlier on, and are exposing already vulnerable societies to increased hardship and uncertainty. Many frustrated oil- importing developing countries have articulated a number of interesting ideas during this general debate, and we urge the international financial institutions and the oil producers to heed our collective appeal. Last week world leaders once again reaffirmed their commitment to address the special needs of the landlocked countries and their special difficulties in integrating into multilateral trading systems. Full, timely and effective implementation of the Almaty Programme of Action and the Sao Paulo Consensus adopted at the eleventh session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development will provide a significant boost to the development and poverty 19 reduction efforts of the landlocked countries, including Mongolia. Mongolia spends a significant portion of its gross domestic product (GDP) on transit transportation and insurance costs through its two neighbours, Russia and China, roughly double the transportation costs of other developing countries. Since 1998, Mongolia has been negotiating with these two neighbours on a framework agreement on transit transport to reduce transit transportation costs and related cumbersome procedures, both in crossing the land border and in trans-shipment at ports. Six rounds of talks ended for the most part inconclusively, but we hope that with the renewed commitment of our leaders to the Almaty Declaration, agreement will be within our collective reach. Mongolia is a small economy, highly vulnerable to commodity market fluctuations and weather and climatic conditions. The call made in the Summit Outcome document (resolution 60/1) on the need to support the efforts of commodity-dependent countries to restructure, diversify and strengthen the competitiveness of their commodity sectors merits a swift response from the international community. In this regard, I wish to draw the attention of this Assembly to the important recommendations derived from the Multi-Stakeholder Consultations organized by the New Rules for the Global Finance Coalition in preparation for the summit. Recommendations include commodity price arrangements and stabilization tools and the establishment of a rapid-responding, overarching, grant-financed shocks facility for low- income commodity-dependent countries. Immediate establishment of such a facility would make a tangible contribution to our efforts to reduce poverty. Mongolia is highly susceptible to natural disasters, which cause loss of life and extensive damage to its economy. In addition, desertification, deforestation and soil erosion hamper our development efforts. We urge the international community to redouble its efforts to address these trans-boundary threats collectively. For our part, we will continue to take specific measures in combating desertification, in using land resources properly and in protecting forests by introducing and implementing special protective strategies. Despite an encouraging increase in official development assistance (ODA) in recent years, after a decade of steady decline, the world is still well short of achieving the long-standing target of 0.7 per cent of GDP. We are encouraged that the war against poverty will now be waged more aggressively with the commitment of the world leaders to increase ODA to developing countries by $50 billion a year by the year 2010. However, it is imperative to increase the aid quantity to a sufficient level to make multiple investments in the health, education and economic infrastructure needed to break cycles of deprivation and ensure sustained growth. Furthermore, the quality of aid has to be improved, as per the principles of the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness of March 2005, with a particular emphasis on providing stable and predictable multi-year financing, and with a focus on development goals, mutual accountability, building institutional capacity, untying aid, reducing transaction costs and bureaucratic procedures and increasing the recipient’s ownership of aid. Mongolia fully endorses the recommendation of the Secretary-General that, starting in 2005, developing countries with sound, transparent and accountable national strategies should receive a sufficient increase in aid, of sufficient quality and timeliness to enable them to achieve their Millennium Development Goals. In addition, new and innovative sources of financing, including an International Finance Facility, quick- impact initiatives and debt-conversion for MDG implementation projects should urgently be put in place. Mongolia, for one, resolves to introduce free school lunches, starting with those for primary schoolchildren, as a quick-impact initiative. Despite the importance of aid for developing countries, trade and investment play a pivotal role in ensuring sustainable development. According to the 2005 Human Development Report, trade barriers faced by developing countries exporting to developed countries are three to four times higher than those faced by developed countries when they trade with each other. The current multilateral trade negotiations have not produced a tangible outcome that would meet our expectations from the Doha development agenda. The Doha Round, to be successful, should result in establishing fairer and more favourable terms of trade for developing countries, especially those with special needs, in the form of enhanced and predictable market access and assistance in building productive and trade capacities. Mongolia appreciates the decision of the European Union to provide duty-free access to over 7,200 goods from small and vulnerable economies, 20 including Mongolia, under the special Generalized System of Preferences Plus scheme. Increased and better access means that more families will be able to leave destitution and poverty behind. The Summit Outcome emphasized once again the importance of a timely, effective, comprehensive and durable solution to the debt problems of developing countries. In assessing the eligibility of countries for debt relief, we urge the donor community not to limit itself to mere statistics or rigid categorizations such as “least developed countries”. Debt relief should be considered comprehensively, taking into account the history and impact of the debt on the development of the recipient country and its actual capacity to repay. Many of these factors were taken into account when Mongolia negotiated its debt repayment with Russia. I would like to take this opportunity to express from this podium the gratitude of my Government to the Government of the Russian Federation for its display of solidarity and political and economic pragmatism in resolving this issue, so important for us. We believe that education is an engine for development, a guarantee of the respect for human rights and a pillar of democracy. Mongolia has made substantial efforts in the second half of the last century to develop its education system. As a result, the adult literacy rate has reached 97.8 per cent. Nonetheless, taking stock of our recent past, we have drawn lessons so as to further improve the deliverables of the education system. Stronger emphasis is now placed on vocational and technical training, the quality of education, addressing functional illiteracy against the backdrop of the rapid advance of information and communications technology and the universal usage of English. These policy measures are taken in accordance with the Dakar Framework for Action and the United Nations Literacy Decade. Mongolia welcomes the strong focus on human rights, rule of law and democracy in the Summit Outcome. Democracy and rule of law are not part of a state of affairs that can be arranged or introduced overnight. We believe that fostering democracy and rule of law is a continuous process, and we hope that this long-term, sustained approach will prevail in the activities of United Nations institutions. We support the efforts of the United Nations to make democracy a universal environment for global governance. We believe that the United Nations Democracy Fund is an important product in the overall reform process, as it highlights the importance of democracy and the role of the Organization. Mongolia believes that the Fund should serve as a vital instrument to assist Member States in the consolidation of democracy and implementation of their commitments, including the Ulaanbaatar Declaration and Plan of Action adopted at the fifth International Conference of New or Restored Democracies in 2003 and approved by the General Assembly in its resolution 58/13. We all agree that the United Nations must be strengthened to meet the challenges of the new millennium. This will be an all-encompassing task that would involve system-wide reform of the Organization to bring it in line with the realities of our era, including, where necessary, changes in composition, mandates, procedures and working methods of the principal and subsidiary organs, the various programmes and funds, as well as the establishment of new or reinvigoration of existing bodies. Overall, United Nations assistance needs to be focused, results- oriented and tailored to the priority development needs of the countries concerned. It has to be designed to bring a tangible and speedy impact on the lives of ordinary people and to help them escape the trap of poverty and live in dignity, free from want. Accountability, oversight, management performance and transparency of the Secretariat must be brought to a new level of efficiency, professionalism and ethical conduct on a par with the best corporate governance practices. Mongolia supports the idea of empowering the Secretary-General, the chief administrative officer of the United Nations, with greater authority and flexibility in administering the work of the Organization in line with the Charter’s provisions. All too often, sound management reforms proposed by the Secretary-General have been stalled by us, the Member States. In conclusion, Mr. President, let me voice Mongolia's confidence that we collectively will succeed in reforming our world Organization, and the renewed and reinvigorated United Nations will be better equipped to address effectively the manifold challenges that lie ahead.Allow me at the outset, on behalf of my delegation, warmly to congratulate Mr. Eliasson on his outstanding election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. My country, Guinea, assures him of its full cooperation as he carries out his important mission. I also pay well-deserved tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for the competence, effectiveness and devotion with which he led the work of the fifty-ninth session. I am also pleased to convey to Secretary-General Kofi Annan the deep appreciation, encouragement and support of Mr. Lansana Conté, President of the Republic, for his tireless and praiseworthy work. The summit meeting at this session of the General Assembly has substantially stiffened our common resolve to promote international peace and security, the rule of law and the right to development. The 23 assessment of the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals and the renewed commitment of States Members to achieving them are cause for hope. The Republic of Guinea nevertheless remains convinced that if we are better to meet the threats and challenges we face, we must resolutely pursue the reforms necessary to revitalize our Organization. In the name of peace and security, the concerted and decisive action of the United Nations system and of regional and subregional organizations, the African Union in particular, has made significant progress in recent months. In West Africa, and especially in the Mano River basin, hopes for peace are gradually growing after years of turbulence and tragedy. In Liberia, the political and institutional rebirth under way is encouraging, although many obstacles still hinder national reconciliation and the country’s economic revival. It is essential that, in order to preserve their legitimacy and fairness, we do everything possible to prevent October’s elections from being manipulated by the forces of destabilization. We therefore call on the international community to give that country the assistance necessary to seeing the transition through and launching its own reconstruction. In Sierra Leone, the process of national reconciliation is continuing, thereby promoting peacebuilding and development. My delegation believes that adequate financing for the Special Court for Sierra Leone and the transfer of all persons presumed guilty of serious crimes under international law are prerequisites for putting an end to impunity and consolidate subregional stability. As concerns Guinea-Bissau, my country welcomes the smooth holding of the presidential elections, which herald a positive new era that will be conducive to national reconciliation and a return to constitutional order. In Côte d’Ivoire, the signing of the Pretoria Agreement on 6 April 2005 has given rise to real hopes that the crisis can be resolved. However, recent developments are a source of concern to us. Our Government calls on all parties concerned to spare no effort to promote a political settlement of the conflict, since peace and stability in the subregion hinge on this. In Burundi, major progress has been made in the peace process, particularly through the holding of legislative and presidential elections in free, fair and peaceful conditions. Guinea welcomes this and calls on our brothers in Burundi to continue on the path to national reconciliation and reconstruction. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where the transitional period is at a decisive stage, problems persist in the eastern part of the country. My country encourages all parties to abide by the relevant provisions of the comprehensive agreement. In the Sudan, despite the sad death of Vice- President Garang, the establishment of a national unity Government and the political will shown by the various protagonists will help to defuse tensions. Guinea urges all parties in Darfur to pursue the negotiations that have begun under the auspices of the African Union with a view to achieving a comprehensive, consensus-based solution. In the Horn of Africa, Somalia has reached a decisive stage with the creation of a Transitional Federal Government. My delegation makes an urgent appeal to the various factions to engage in negotiations with the Government in order to reach a comprehensive peace agreement. Regarding the Ethiopia-Eritrea dispute, we call on both parties fully to respect the Algiers Accord and to implement the Boundary Commission’s decision. As to the situation in the Western Sahara, Guinea supports a negotiated and mutually acceptable solution. It encourages the parties concerned to enhance their cooperation with the Special Representative of the Secretary-General. Concerning the Middle East, our Government welcomes Israel’s withdrawal from the Gaza Strip. However, we remain concerned by the occupation of the West Bank, the continued illegal construction of the separation wall and the continuing detention of Palestinian political prisoners. That is why we appeal to the two parties to respect the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and of the Security Council, as well as the Quartet road map. This is the only way to bring about the creation of two States — Palestine and Israel — living side by side in safety and security within secure and recognized boundaries. 24 In Iraq, despite the holding of legislative elections that led to the establishment of a transitional Government, we cannot but deplore the current climate of daily violence. We agree that everything should be done to help the country’s leaders to consolidate the political transition, put an end to indiscriminate violence and build a united, democratic and prosperous Iraq. With regard to Asia, our Government reaffirms its belief in the principle of one China. We also attach importance to the peaceful and independent reunification of the two Koreas as well as to ongoing efforts to maintain peace, security and stability on the Korean peninsula. My delegation notes with profound concern the resurgence of terrorist activities throughout the world. We strongly condemn terrorism in all its forms and in all its manifestations, for it constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security. We express solidarity with all States that have fallen victim to it. To eradicate that scourge, my delegation reaffirms the need to tackle with determination its root causes, including injustice, exclusion, poverty and the intensification of social divisions. We welcome the adoption by the Assembly on 13 April 2005 of the resolution on the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, and we urge Member States to reach agreement on a comprehensive convention on terrorism. The seventh Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the Second Biennial Meeting of States to Consider the Implementation of the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, which were held, respectively, in May and July 2005, shows the concern of States parties to do more to address disarmament-related problems. However, we note and deplore the fact that the States parties to the Treaty have not yet succeeded in reaching consensus on questions of substance. Hence we urge all States to continue negotiations in order to strengthen the international non-proliferation regime. With regard to combating the proliferation and illicit trade in small arms and light weapons, Guinea has resolutely undertaken to eradicate that scourge and welcomes the adoption of a draft instrument for the tracing of such weapons. We invite the donor community to provide appropriate support for the implementation of the subregional programme of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). The initiative to transform the ECOWAS moratorium into a binding legal instrument merits due consideration by Member States. Aware of the importance that peoples attach to development goals, of the latter’s interdependence and of what is at stake, the Government of Guinea has adopted a national poverty-reduction strategy whose implementation has, regrettably, been compromised by external factors linked to rebel attacks, a massive influx of refugees and regional instability. My delegation appeals urgently to all development partners to support Guinea in its efforts to implement that strategy, which remains the most certain way of achieving the Millennium Development Goals. In that connection, we welcome the recent progress made in the framework of poverty reduction, particularly the commitment of the G-8 to double official development assistance (ODA) over the next few years and immediate debt cancellation for the 18 most indebted poor countries. We commend and endorse all other initiatives designed to increase funds for ODA. We express the hope that the Gleneagles initiative, which represents an important step forward in the right direction, will be translated into reality and will be extended to all least developed countries. Furthermore, in the context of the current World Trade Organization trade negotiations, we urge Member States to show a spirit of compromise and diligence in order to overcome their differences and come to an understanding on a consensus programme for the implementation of the Doha Development Agenda before the sixth Hong Kong Ministerial Conference. What is at stake is the very future of the multilateral trading system. Our work is taking place following the High-level Plenary Meeting, as a consequence of which our leaders have adopted an outcome document to guide our actions. The decisions and commitments taken at the summit clearly indicate that a new era has begun. The time for promises has passed, and we must now translate our commitments into concrete action in a 25 spirit of true solidarity between developed and developing countries, on the basis of a far-reaching reform of our Organization. By so doing, we will leave to future generations, to which we owe a debt, the right tools to lead humankind towards a better future.I am pleased to join those who have spoken before me in congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. For us in Zambia your election is especially significant given the historic bond of friendship 05-51226 9 that exists between our countries. It was in our country that your illustrious compatriot, then Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld, lost his life in 1961 while on a mission for peace in the Congo. I pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Gabon, who presided over the fifty-ninth session, for his selfless commitment and devotion to the search for consensus on the outcome document which the Assembly adopted two days ago (resolution 60/1). My delegation’s appreciation also goes to the Secretary-General, His Excellency, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his outstanding leadership and dedication to the well-being of the Organization. Five years ago we committed ourselves to eight identifiable Development Goals. Today we have recommitted ourselves to uphold the principles and meet the Goals set out in the historic Millennium Declaration. We hope that the commitments we have undertaken will not remain mere empty words but that, this time around, the international community will make a concerted effort to implement them. In this regard we are inspired by the report of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change (A/59/565). Those of us from Africa see the report of the Secretary- General (A/59/2005) as an opportunity to realize the goals set out in the Organization of African Unity’s 1997 Harare Declaration, which called for the reform of the United Nations Security Council. My delegation supports the demand of the African Union for two permanent seats on the Security Council, with all the privileges attached to such seats, including the right of veto. Our position is not meant to frustrate the reform process. The African region considers the reform of the Organization as an opportunity to correct historical injustices that stand as a dark cloud over our people. We would actually prefer that the right of veto be removed from the United Nations, as it is undemocratic. We are, however, aware that some permanent members of the Security Council are reluctant to give up the veto power at the moment. It is in this regard that Africa, like other regions, deserves the right of veto, as the absence of that right will only serve to perpetuate the marginalization of the continent. The position I have outlined does not in any way mean that Africa is against the expansion of the Security Council to include other important countries that contribute to international peace and security. Let me reaffirm in this regard that Zambia supports the four candidate States of Brazil, Germany, India and Japan for permanent membership of the Security Council with full privileges, including that of veto power. I am only stressing that Africa is entitled to, and deserves the right of, permanent representation in the Security Council, with the right of veto, not only as a matter of correcting an historical injustice against Africa but also to uphold the democratic principles of regional equality. Two days ago we adopted the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting of the General Assembly on the review of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The High-level Plenary Meeting provided a rare opportunity for us to share experiences in the implementation of the development agenda, in particular, and highlighted the need for enhanced international cooperation and coordination if we are to achieve much-sought-after economic development. While the document does not contain everything we would have wanted to include, it nevertheless represents an important basis for continued dialogue during this session. Since 2001 Africa has been implementing the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), whose main objective is to enhance the capacity of African countries to reduce the high incidence of poverty on the continent and to strengthen efforts to achieve sustainable economic development. While we acknowledge the support that the international community has so far rendered to the realization of NEPAD’s objectives, it is also true that this support that has proved to be insufficient. It is the view of my Government that while official development assistance (ODA) may help in the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, trade would help to sustain those gains. In this regard, Zambia urges all stakeholders to bring to a speedy conclusion the Doha round of trade negotiations, which will act as a catalyst towards achieving sustainable development. The external debt problem is still a major hindrance to development. The current unfavourable terms in agriculture and commodity trading make the problem even more unbearable. My delegation commends the United Nations for supporting the efforts of the African Union’s peace initiatives on the continent. The Pan-African  10 05-51226 Parliament and the Peace and Security Council are part of the infrastructure in support of peace and security. In this regard, I wish to pledge Zambia’s continued support of the process. Zambia, as one of the core States of the Great Lakes region, would like to associate itself with the remarkable progress that continues to be made in the areas of peace and security in the subregion since the 17 November 2003 report of the Secretary-General to the Security Council on preparations for an international conference on the Great Lakes region (S/2003/1099). We are encouraged by some positive developments brought about so far through the process of regional ownership and international partnership and the combined efforts of the United Nations, the African Union, the Group of Friends and the subregional Governments concerned. My Government will continue to play its part in the fight against international terrorism. Zambia rejects terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We are determined to work with the rest of the international community to implement the counter-terrorism strategy. Zambia is committed to promoting and respecting human rights, the rule of law and democracy. In Zambia we believe that democracy is a universal value. We believe therefore it is under conditions of democracy that all human rights are protected. Allow me to conclude my statement by referring to the efforts my Government is making to fight corruption. The nation as a whole has realized that the state of our economy could have been much better if all the resources available had been utilized properly. In this regard, one cannot overemphasize the fact that corruption erodes the incomes of households and businesses, thus defeating efforts to reduce poverty. I wish to explain that the Zambia Task Force on Corruption is an instrument for development that my Government hopes will enhance the capacity to utilize public resources for purposes that benefit the nation as a whole. More important, the attainment of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative completion point by my country can, in large measure, be attributed to the success of the campaign against corruption, which prompted the Government to introduce stringent financial controls and transparent and accountable public expenditure measures. The United Nations should consider increasing its resources in the fight against corruption. As we mark the sixtieth anniversary of this, our great institution, we cannot but conclude that its importance and continued relevance to mankind is beyond question. It is in that context that we need to revitalize it in order for it to fulfil the ideals for which it was established. Let me begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I have no doubt that, with your skills and vast experience, you will guide our deliberations to a successful conclusion. Let me also commend my dear friend His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, the outgoing President of the General Assembly, for the excellent manner in which he directed the affairs of the fifty- ninth session. In addition, I commend the Secretary- General for his leadership, especially in advancing the United Nations reform and revitalization agenda. My country has full confidence in his integrity and competence, which he has demonstrated over the years, both as a staff member and at the helm of the Organization. As we celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of the Organization, we must pause and take stock of the record of our collective response to the many different global challenges that mankind has had to face. From a membership of only 50 States at its inception, the Organization has grown to 191 Members today. That rapid expansion, together with the sophistication that the United Nations has acquired over the years, calls for an assessment of its strengths and weaknesses with a view to making it more effective. It is no secret that the voice of the General Assembly has grown weaker over the years, that the credibility of our human rights procedures and mechanisms has been reduced, that democracy, accountability and transparency in the Security Council have become blurred and that the Economic and Social Council needs to be more relevant and effective. On several occasions since 1945, we have witnessed instances of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity, as well as the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Civil strife and terrorism are undermining human and State security. Poverty, hunger and diseases still decimate countless communities, while our capacity to respond to humanitarian crises needs to be reassessed and revitalized. This is the backdrop of the challenges we as an organization face. They do not represent failure; they simply underscore that more needs to be done to make the world a safer and better place for all of mankind. Therefore, as we celebrate our achievements, let us rededicate ourselves to remaining true to our mission and also fashion a new vision that captures the realities of our world in the twenty-first century. In this connection, my delegation would like to express its gratitude to the Secretary-General for the comprehensive reform agenda he has laid out in his report “In larger freedom: towards development, security and human rights for all” (A/59/2005). We agree that the world needs to be steered towards a greater focus on those larger freedoms. The majority of the world’s people today are in chains — the chains of poverty and underdevelopment. 5 For them, development means freedom from want, freedom from fear and hunger and, above all, freedom to live in dignity. Reforming the United Nations so that it is better poised to more effectively address humankind’s quest for these larger freedoms, is a real necessity for the greater relevance and impact of our Organization. Indeed, the following objectives should be our collective focus for the next decade: absolute poverty and its attendant woes such as diseases, hunger and illiteracy must be eliminated from the face of the earth; the proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction must be halted and a total ban on nuclear weapons should be imposed on all States; peace must be allowed to reign throughout the world; there must be greater tolerance and mutual respect in dealing with each other’s differences; the world’s ecosystems and natural resources must be judiciously conserved and utilized; political systems must work to achieve greater cooperation; multilateralism should replace unilateralism in dealing with conflicts, disputes or disagreements between Member States, and reconciliation should replace confrontation and conflict. If, in the next decade, we succeed in achieving those objectives, we will have provided for ourselves those larger freedoms that we crave today. While we must focus on those long-term objectives, we must also not lose sight of the imperatives of our time. We must continue working in concert towards the realization of global peace, assigning highest priority to those conflict situations that pose the greatest threat to the peace of the whole world. In this, we must begin with the Middle East. Without a just solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict peace will continue to elude the Middle East with consequences that will affect the whole world. My delegation supports the vision of a two-State solution, with Israel and Palestine living side by side in peace and security. We also welcome Israel’s withdrawal from Gaza and the West Bank as a step towards a complete withdrawal from the rest of the occupied Palestinian territory. The unstable situation in Iraq is causing undesirable ripples all over the world. The situation is, by no means, unconnected with the soaring price of oil, which is causing serious problems in the global economy and threatening the economic gains made by many developing countries. The sooner stability is brought to the region, the better it will be for that country and the rest of the world. We are encouraged by the positive contributions of the United Nations and the African Union towards the peaceful resolution of conflicts in Africa. In Guinea-Bissau, another milestone has been reached with the election of President Nino Vieira. After many years of trials and tribulation, the people of Guinea-Bissau have finally placed the country on a solid path to recovery, peace and development. As Chair of the Friends of Guinea-Bissau at the United Nations, as well as a member of the Ad hoc Advisory Group on Guinea-Bissau, my delegation calls for an early convening of a donors conference to show solidarity with the people of Guinea-Bissau and a commitment to lasting peace in that country. Equally in Burundi, the democratic transition has been completed with the recent election of President Pierre Nkurunziza. We extend to him and the people of Burundi, our heartiest congratulations and best wishes for a new era of peace, stability and development. This year has witnessed major strides towards sustainable peace in the Sudan. My delegation commends the Government of the Sudan and the Sudanese People’s Liberation Movement for their commitment to that historic accord meant to bring lasting peace to the country. We are encouraged by the steps they have taken so far to implement the accord, and it is my fervent hope that their collective leadership will continue tirelessly to pursue the Sudan of their dreams. We sympathize with all the Sudanese people on the tragic death of their leader and Vice- President, Mr. John Garang, who did so much to advance the peace process. We are confident that his successor will continue in his footsteps until all the pending issues are peacefully resolved. An underlying factor in all of these conflicts is the proliferation of small arms and light weapons. We must commit ourselves to denying non-State actors, terrorists and organized criminal networks the acquisition of these weapons of mass terror. We shall have an opportunity to further refine our response to this scourge during the 2006 review of the United Nations Programme of Action on Small Arms. Our Organization must be the ultimate defender of the rule of international law, to which all States in the comity of nations must adhere. Any attempt to 6 weaken or undermine our rules-based international system should be rejected without compromise. An institution like the International Criminal Court, with a mandate to end impunity, deserves all the support it can garner from the international community. The Rome Statute is a beacon of hope to all of humanity, and my delegation appeals to those States that have not yet done so, to consider speedily becoming party to it. My delegation strongly condemns the application of unilateral coercive measures as a means of settling disputes. These measures have an adverse impact on the lives of innocent people, who lack any means of recourse or redress. We therefore call for the complete and immediate lifting of the sanctions imposed on Cuba. As we clamour for reform and renewal of our Organization, we should widen our horizons and undertake a sober and dispassionate reassessment of our policy towards the Republic of Taiwan. The concerns of the 23 million hard-working and peace- loving people of that great country continue to be ignored. The Republic of Taiwan is a democratic, sovereign State. Its democratically elected Government defends the interests of the people of Taiwan in the world. The Taiwanese people display the same concern we all do about global problems such as international peace and security, HIV/AIDS, the spread of disease, environmental pollution, and all the other issues that engage us at the United Nations. Yet, they are not here at the table with us, contributing their share in the search for solutions to the problems that confront humankind today. We therefore call on all the peace- loving nations of the world to support the participation of the Republic of Taiwan in all the affairs of the United Nations as a full Member without delay. The twenty-first-century United Nations should include all people the world over without political discrimination. The United Nations should also be committed to that goal: a twenty-first-century, reformed United Nations that includes the people of the Republic of Taiwan. Their plight is more sharply amplified by our present preoccupation with the conflicts raging today that pose a serious threat to international peace and security. The reform agenda has been with us for decades now. Finally, this year, a number of reports, including one by the Secretary-General himself, seem to have spurred all of us to action. My delegation fully supports the proposed reform of the Economic and Social Council and endorses the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission. In that regard, we hope that the wealth of experience which the United Nations has gathered over the years, especially in dealing with countries emerging from conflict, will be brought to bear in elaborating the structure, functions and mandate of the Commission. We equally support the proposed reform of the Commission on Human Rights. However, we should remember that human rights are everyone’s concern and their enforcement is not the prerogative of a select few. A smaller human rights body would reinforce that notion and entrench the credibility crisis that the current Commission suffers from. While the Commission may have structural deficiencies, it is its working methods that we must focus on in order to eliminate bias, subjectivity and selectivity. Revitalizing the General Assembly is equally long overdue. It is time for the Assembly to be more assertive within the mandate accorded it by the Charter. The reform of our Organization would be incomplete without Security Council reform. The current size and composition of the Council makes a mockery of the larger membership of the United Nations and the realities of the world today. No amount of politics or procrastination can silence Africa’s legitimate quest for full representation on the Security Council. International peace and security are everyone’s business. Without reform and a thorough review of the Council’s working methods, the legitimacy of the decisions it takes will be increasingly questionable. We shall also have to look into the issue of the veto once again. The purpose for which the veto was instituted and the grounds on which it was assigned 60 years ago are no longer valid in today’s world. In fact, Africa’s position on the veto, which my delegation wholeheartedly supports, is that it should be abolished. In fact, veto power should be given only to the General Assembly, to be exercised by a majority vote. If that is done, the United Nations and the world will be able to boast of a universal democratic system that will usher in a new and more peaceful world order. The Security Council as presently constituted is not conducive to the maintenance of world peace and security. If it cannot be reformed, it should be abolished and its mandate assigned to the General Assembly with decisions taken by a majority vote. In that event, any action taken by the United Nations in a 7 given situation would be taken on behalf of all of us. That would put a definitive end to unilateralism in resolving international disputes and issues.Let me begin, Mr. President, by congratulating you upon your election as President of the General Assembly and assure you of my country’s unwavering support for your endeavours. Your previous experience at the United Nations ensures that under your guidance the Assembly will continue to promote the values and principles of our Organization. I also wish to extend our sincere thanks to the outgoing President, Mr. Ping. His tireless efforts in all fields, particularly in the preparations for the High- level Plenary Meeting, have been exemplary. Greece fully subscribes to the statement delivered earlier by the Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom on behalf of the European Union, as well as to the European Union priorities presented to the General Assembly. I would also like to express our appreciation to the Secretary-General for his relentless efforts to promote peace and security and to safeguard the moral authority and the pre-eminent role of our United Nations. At the beginning of the twenty-first century, we continue to face many threats and challenges that undermine the basic values and principles of our societies and test our will and determination to abide by the obligations and restraints inherent in those values and principles. Only through concerted collective action, dialogue and mutual understanding can we confront them and pave the way for a better and brighter future. Terrorism has emerged as the most important challenge of our times, creating an atmosphere of collective fear, intolerance and a never-ending cycle of violence. Throughout history, violence has never proven to be an answer to our problems. Peace, stability and security can only be achieved through tolerance, acceptance and the realization that our common interests far outweigh our differences. There is no justification whatsoever for terrorism. It is high time for an urgent collective effort to put an immediate end to that modern scourge. Natural disasters, like the tsunami in Asia and the recent hurricane in the southern part of the United States — with so many victims and unimaginable destruction — also demonstrate sufficiently the importance of international cooperation and the urgent need for human solidarity. I am fully aware of the importance of economic development for a considerable part of the world. Security and sustainable development go hand in hand. Our collective commitment and efforts are needed to correct the imbalances and disparities in the world. It is only a matter of time before extreme poverty, hunger and the catastrophic impact of widespread diseases will lead to strife, internal or external. The foremost example of that is in Africa, where the vicious cycle of poverty, conflict and HIV/AIDS produces an explosive combination ripping apart the fabric of their societies and threatening them with unprecedented and dire consequences. 22 Multilateral cooperation is the only way to a better world. The international multilateral system must be enhanced and strengthened. Greece fully participates in the policies formulated by the European Union and the various international organizations that contribute to the economic development of all areas of the world in order to redress existing imbalances. We appreciate the value of cultural diversity in a world unfortunately so often divided by discrimination. We believe in dialogue among cultures, among people and among societies. We fully support the peaceful resolution of all our disputes on the basis of international law and the United Nations Charter. We are deeply committed to the United Nations and what it represents and to effective multilateralism and the pre- eminence of international law. Looking at Greece’s immediate neighbourhood, the Balkans, we realize that it has not yet been fully transformed into a region of peace, stability and prosperity. In Kosovo, the trauma created by the repression of the past and the inter-ethnic violence that plagued the region for so long has yet to be healed. There is a need for a settlement that is in conformity with international legality, as expressed by the United Nations, and with European standards and values — a settlement which will enhance regional stability. We remain convinced that European integration is the only way to find permanent solutions to existing problems and challenges in the area. At the same time, regional cooperation must be strengthened so as to effectively address the problems of the neighbourhood. Greece, which holds the chairmanship-in-office of the South-East European Cooperation Process, is determined to strengthen the institutional aspects of that process and to develop it into the real voice of the region. I deeply regret that the Cyprus problem remains unresolved. In the 31 years of military occupation of more than one third of the territory of Cyprus, Greece has strongly supported every attempt and initiative by the United Nations to achieve a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem. In the light of the outcome of last year’s referendums, which should be fully respected, any new initiative will have to be carefully prepared so as to ensure real chances for success. For our part, we are ready to work towards building the necessary common ground, which will render possible the re-launching of meaningful negotiations. Our ultimate goal remains an agreed solution between the two parties. We remain steadfastly committed to reaching a just and viable solution for the reunification of the island following negotiations on the basis of the Secretary-General’s plan and the relevant Security Council resolutions, and in conformity with European Union principles and acquis. In this endeavour, Greece will spare no effort. The climate of our bilateral relations with Turkey over recent years has been constantly improving. We have made vigorous efforts to put our relations on a new, solid track. Significant progress has been achieved in several areas of our bilateral cooperation, and Turkey’s European Union perspective will further broaden the scope of our relations. The latest developments in the Middle East allow us to maintain a certain level of reserved optimism. The Israeli withdrawal from Gaza and parts of the northern West Bank does, indeed, constitute an important milestone. This is a momentous opportunity to revitalize the road map and to move the process a step closer to achieving a fair, lasting and comprehensive peace in the Middle East. The road map remains the framework for the achievement of a just and lasting peace. Both parties should concentrate on fulfilling their respective obligations and commitments and refrain from any and all unilateral actions which threaten to prejudge the outcome of final status negotiations and undermine efforts at building confidence on the ground. Our shared goal remains the realization of a two- State solution: Israel and a democratic, viable and territorially contiguous State of Palestine, living side by side in peace and security. With regard to Iraq, Greece underlines the importance of its territorial integrity and unity in the framework of a federal system. We remain particularly concerned, however, about the ongoing violence, which makes it imperative to follow the timetable of the political process that will lead the country to normalcy, which is of vital importance for peace and stability in the entire region. We fully support Iraq in this difficult mission. 23 My country has a long, historic relationship with the African continent and its peoples. We have witnessed with great concern the series of conflict situations that have been plaguing Africa for many years. We are following developments in all cases and are trying to make positive contributions, whether in the Sudan, in the Democratic Republic of Congo or other countries of West Africa, in the settlement of the dispute between Ethiopia and Eritrea, and elsewhere. The emerging pivotal role of the African Union in dealing with African crises has our full support and deep appreciation. Last Friday, we adopted a historic declaration, which constitutes a new and important step in the direction of enforcing collective security and strengthening the United Nations capacity to deal with the new challenges and threats that our societies are facing today. Our efforts should now focus on the implementation of the commitments made, so that generations to come can live in a better and more secure world.Allow me, Sir, to express the pleasure of the Republic of Croatia at your election to the post of President of the General Assembly. At this crucial moment in the history of the United Nations, we are gratified that a friend of multilateralism will be guiding the work of the Assembly. May I also commend the work of your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for his remarkable leadership and tenacity in bringing the fifty-ninth session to a successful conclusion. I would like to extend the sincere condolences of the people of Croatia to the people of the United States of America on the loss of life and suffering occasioned by Hurricane Katrina. We can take some small comfort from the fact that at such times of need nations instinctively reach out to help others. This provides vivid illustration of the best of humanity and its enormous potential to do good and build a better world. We believe that the United Nations continues to be indispensable for building a better world. All States benefit from a strong United Nations. Small and medium-sized States, which form the great majority of Members, can articulate their diverse interests at the global level through this universal forum more effectively than in any other. Croatia remembers that the United Nations played a prominent role in its re-emergence as a sovereign State. Yet the difficulty with which agreement was achieved on the outcome document reflects the present state of the world in which we live. We should not look at this imperfect document through rose-colored eyeglasses. Rather, we should grasp the potential that it holds for moving towards broader and deeper reforms. While we may have broad agreement on the goal ó a more efficient and effective United Nations working in the service of mankind ó we have created only some of the contours of reform. As the Secretary-General has reminded us, we should not consider that the job has been done. The details remain incomplete. Let us move now to the details without delay. Let us move forward in helping developing countries achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Let us operationalize the Peacebuilding Commission and the Human Rights Council. Let us introduce the processes required to strengthen Secretariat management. Diplomacy is often about compromise. That word has been used frequently in describing the World Summit Outcome document (resolution 60/1). However, compromise should not be used as a synonym for regression. Development is a pillar of the United Nations mandate, and the MDGs are international obligations. Over the years, the development dialogue has resulted in a number of key international documents, which bear witness to the progress on poverty-related issues and the ways in which we have agreed to address those vital challenges. Johannesburg and Monterrey are prominent among them. While it is important to reaffirm the agreed international development framework, it is equally necessary to move forward. Comprehensive debt relief, on which there was progress earlier this year at Gleneagles, and better trade access to the markets of developed countries, which must be an outcome of the Doha round, chart the way forward. The road to the achievement of the MDGs on which we set out five years ago has been an uneven one. There has been rapid growth in some parts of the globe, resulting in the movement of millions out of poverty. At the same time, sub-Saharan Africa has 15 stagnated. Small island developing States have special vulnerabilities which threaten their very existence. The achievement of the MDG targets by 2015 requires national and international implementation strategies. We know that the current level of aid is not enough to achieve the MDGs. It is necessary to look at ways to increase the effectiveness of existing aid, introduce innovative sources of financing and adhere to the agreed timetable for progressively increasing flows. In this regard, Croatia supports the Declaration on Innovative Sources of Financing for Development. As a country with an economy in transition and as a European Union (EU) candidate, Croatia is undergoing significant internal structural change and external policy scrutiny. We seek to balance those often competing demands by including our MDG obligations within the context of other policy implementation in the transition and EU accession processes. We have developed national development targets based on the MDGs, taking into account our progress to date. From its coastline, with its over 1,200 islands, to its Karst hinterland and the mountains and plains beyond, Croatia's environment offers rare diversity in a relatively small geographic area. We are vitally interested in the preservation of our national environmental heritage, as well as of the whole of the common environment of mankind. For that reason, we welcome the extensive treatment of environmental issues in the outcome document and reiterate our support for the key concept of sustainable development. An effective multilateral system must rely upon the interaction of States which are responsible domestic and international actors. In recent years, threats to peace and security have become very common topics of discussion in global affairs. With good reason, much effort has been invested in rallying the required international cooperation for the creation of strategies to confront old and new threats to States. Croatia believes that the United Nations should continue to be in the frontline of that process. The fight against terrorism and transnational organized crime is among the greatest challenges we face. Last week, the Croatian President signed the Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. That Convention, which took several years to negotiate, is a step forward towards concluding a comprehensive international convention on terrorism. States must make greater efforts to ensure that it comes to fruition during the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. Croatia regrets that there has been no meaningful progress on disarmament and non-proliferation. The ongoing stalemate, coming, as it does, in the aftermath of the unsuccessful Review Conference of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) in May, is a disappointment. We support the recent efforts by a number of States in relation to the NPT-based upon the three pillars of non-proliferation, disarmament and peaceful nuclear cooperation - as well as the universal adoption of the comprehensive safeguards agreements and additional protocols. Countries which have experienced conflict and subsequently rebuilt their national capacities and institutions understand well the link between security and development. Both security and development are individual pillars of the work of the United Nations. However, we know that together they are vital for sustainable development. Security and development are mutually reinforcing, providing the foundations for the well-being of individuals and of the States in which they live. Croatia took an active interest in the negotiations on the Peacebuilding Commission. It is clear that such an intergovernmental body is needed to fill a void in the United Nations system. While the expertise of the United Nations in peacekeeping is not in doubt, the challenges of building and entrenching peace are different. We have argued for the inclusion in the membership of the Commission of countries with national experience in peacebuilding. We are pleased that that position was reflected in the outcome document. The inclusion of small States whose own experience has spanned the transition from conflict to relief and, subsequently, development, will add an important dimension which would be absent if the Commission were constituted solely by large, wealthy or powerful States. The Peacebuilding Commission should assist States to develop and strengthen their key governance institutions and assist local authorities in creating the conditions for sustainable development, including economic growth. It should always ensure that the process is one which is driven by the State concerned and by the key stakeholders within it. If internal 16 conflicts can be quelled and prevented from recurring, then we are creating the conditions for a safer world. We believe that the reform of the Security Council is necessary with regard to both its membership and its working methods. We look forward to further progress being made during the current session of the General Assembly on this matter. Clearly, any solution will require the support of as large a group of Member States as possible. Croatia has been a factor of stability in a neighbourhood where past instability has taken a heavy toll, not only on the countries in the region but also on the broader international community. Our enhanced cooperation with our neighbours is a sure basis for entrenching stability and ensuring preconditions for the expansion of economic opportunities for South-East Europe as a whole. We shall continue to play that regional role. Having successfully evolved through the peacebuilding spectrum, Croatia is now playing its part as a contributor to more than half of the United Nations peacekeeping operations throughout the world, and training peacekeepers from emerging troop- contributing countries. We are using our national experience to help others in need. We are now ready to take the next step in our responsibilities as a Member of the United Nations and as a global citizen. For that reason, the Republic of Croatia has presented its candidature for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council in the elections to be held in 2007. The postulates within the United Nations Charter on human rights serve as a universal measure for all nations and peoples. They are at the core of the work of the United Nations. That is why we have supported the efforts to reform and strengthen the United Nations human rights machinery. Croatia supports the decision to strengthen the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and to increase the resources allocated to it. Existing machinery in the area of human rights - one of the fundamental pillars of the United Nations system - requires such reforms. Croatia welcomes the decision to establish a Human Rights Council as a new organ with the responsibility for promoting universal respect for the protection of human rights and addressing their violation, wherever they may occur. We are disappointed that the necessary political will was not found to conclude an agreement on the Council in the lead-up to the world summit. However, we will work constructively with other Member States in seeking consensus so that as yet undecided elements relating to that Council can be settled during the sixtieth session. Croatia is pleased to see the inclusion of an agreement on the ìresponsibility to protectî in the outcome document. The frustration and suffering that can be caused by inaction on the part of the international community, inert in the face of aggression, has been witnessed all too frequently. We welcome this positive development as a step towards a new normative framework. Democracy brings freedom for the individual and contributes to the legitimacy of States. As a signatory of the Warsaw Declaration: Towards a Community of Democracies, Croatia fully recognizes the importance of strengthening democracy and advancing its global acceptance as a universal value. Capacity-building can strengthen States by reinforcing the institutions that ensure the rule of law, equity, access and stable government. Croatia supports the enhancement of the capacity of the United Nations to promote and reinforce democratic institutions and practices around the world. We welcome the decision to establish a Democracy Fund and have, as a concrete measure of our support, made a financial contribution towards its establishment. Only an efficiently functioning United Nations system can respond to contemporary challenges. This requires effective mandates for the principal organs. Yet, there are distinctly different conceptions among Member States of the principle of State sovereignty. These differences, as we have seen in the recent negotiations, impact directly upon the prospects of adjusting the mandates and interrelationships of the principal organs of the United Nations to the realities of the twenty-first century. We all have more work ahead of us on this account. Croatia supports the efforts to introduce significant human resource management reforms in the Secretariat. The United Nations cannot afford to have a Secretariat that is not managed in accordance with contemporary standards and practices. For the same reason, we support system-wide coherence, both in management and policy. 17 There have been many high-minded words uttered on behalf of the United Nations in this Hall during the past week. When we leave this place, let us not forget the principles that we have invoked and the pledges that we have made. Only this can ensure that we accelerate progress towards achievement of both the MDGs and United Nations reform. For its part, you can be assured that the Republic of Croatia shall continue to be a constructive participant in these efforts.Mr. President, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your election as President of this session of the General Assembly and to thank your predecessor, Mr. Ping, for all his efforts during his tenure. I would like also to thank the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for all his endeavours in seeking the preservation of this great institution’s integrity as well as world peace. This year’s session of the General Assembly comes days after a landmark meeting of world leaders at which they adopted a blueprint that aims to increase the efficiency of the United Nations in the prosecution of human rights abuses and in the preservation of world peace and security. Moreover, that instrument calls on all to move forward with a much-needed, comprehensive programme of reforms at the United Nations, including in the Security Council. This clearly demonstrates our faith in the primacy of the role of the United Nations in the preservation of world peace, as the embodiment of our collective desire and will, and as the legitimate body for crisis resolution within the framework of every individual State’s sovereignty. Truly, the only way out of this dangerous impasse is a return to a multipolar world order, based on the rule of international law and justice and on respect for every nation’s sovereignty. Moreover, such a wise approach should be complemented by serious and concerted efforts to fight poverty and oppression and, consequently, the root causes of terror. The core values of a democratic and just world are best served by enhancing the capabilities of the United Nations and its instruments, and by reinforcing in-house democratic values. This institution should remain the primary defender of such human values as freedom, justice and peace. The advances in telecommunications and information technologies, signature traits of globalization, have led to a withering of geographical boundaries, along with a strengthening of multinational corporations, and hence the need for a new approach to tackling our world’s problems in international relations. The “crumbs” from the rich nations have become insufficient to satisfy the needs of a third world seeking to extract itself from backwardness and to eradicate poverty and disease. Those ailments have spread beyond the boundaries of the great development divide and serve as a stern wake-up call and a ticking bomb for us all to heed. That is why it is imperative to call for a serious and urgent dialogue between North and South, for rapid and eased transfer of technological advances and capital, and for bolstering the development of those nations that seek modernity. Moreover, it is crucial to encourage interaction and cooperation between developing States through such forums as the summit that was held in Brasilia last May, where Arab nations met the nations of South America. Lebanon looks forward to the follow-up meetings of the Brasilia summit, considering the importance of cooperation between those two important geographic blocs. At this juncture, it is logical to ask whether extremism, terrorism and wanton violence against innocent civilians are the by-products of the environment of seclusion and deprivation. In view of the rapid spread of terrorism, we feel that the approach to countering the plague of terrorism remains superficial and unable to tackle the root causes of the plague. Having suffered the awful consequences of that plague, Lebanon was always a bellwether in condemning all terrorist acts around the world. That is because few nations have so endured and continue to endure the consequences of that evil. That is why we know that an effective anti-terror campaign requires an environment of constructive cooperation worldwide, remote from politically motivated campaigns of vilification, and as a platform for a clear definition of 7 terrorism, remote from the wilful or unintended conflation of the inalienable right of people to fight occupation and acts of wanton terror. Therefore, and in order to conclusively win the war on terror, the security approach should be complemented by mid- and long-term approaches aimed at resolving political crises in order to deprive the terrorists of all legitimacy. That is why tackling the problems of oppression and occupation, along with bolstering development, education and the attainment of a better life, will surely lead to shrinking the human pool that feeds extremism. For decades now, the Middle East has witnessed conflicts and unresolved disputes and, as a consequence, has been subject to the festering wounds of terrorism. Needless to say, the core of the problem remains the fact that Arab lands are still under occupation in spite of the many resolutions of international legitimacy, many adopted in this very edifice, calling for an end to occupation. The immediate implementation of those resolutions, as well as General Assembly resolution 194 (III) — which affirms the right of return of the Palestinian refugees to their lands confiscated by Israel and bars the resettlement of the uprooted Palestinians in their host countries — remains the only way to defuse and to dry up the wells of extremism. That will pave the way to a comprehensive, just and peaceful settlement in our region, as foreseen in the 1991 Madrid peace summit and the implementation of the land-for-peace principle. Those principles of peace were confirmed as a strategic choice by all Arab leaders during the Beirut Arab summit of 2002. Sadly, the initiative has yet to be seized upon to resolve regional conflicts and to achieve a final and peaceful settlement in the Middle East. Awaiting the historic resolution of the conflict, Lebanon commends the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East for all that it does, and calls upon the international community to bolster its capabilities in order to alleviate the hardships of the Palestinian refugees in their places of “temporary” residence. The daily Israeli violations of Lebanon’s territorial integrity and aggressions against the people of South Lebanon have made that important part of my country yet another point of tension in the Middle East. Israel’s violation of the Blue Line and its continuing occupation of parts of my country, along with the imprisonment of scores of our citizens without any recourse to due process, are in clear violation of international law, to say nothing of the lethal hardships faced by our citizens in the freed areas of South Lebanon due to the thousands of land mines planted by Israel during its two-decade occupation of South Lebanon. My country continues to adhere to a comprehensive and just peace settlement, to the principle of non-aggression, and to respect for human rights, and yearns for the implementation of all international resolutions towards those ends. In the meantime, we cannot but value the role played by the United Nations in South Lebanon through the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) — a role that has been extended to and benefited Lebanon for almost three decades. Our clinging to the UNIFIL presence emanates from our commitment to peace and security, pending a final resolution of the conflicts in the region. Here, I would like to avail myself of the opportunity to salute the UNIFIL forces active in South Lebanon, to thank them for their sacrifices, and to bow in memory of the fallen peacekeepers. Lebanon has long endured Israel’s wars and occupation, despite a Security Council resolution calling for the immediate cessation of the occupation. Alas, Israel ignored that resolution for over two decades. That gave birth to a staunchly national movement of resistance and defence of Lebanon’s territorial integrity, as guaranteed by the Charter of the United Nations under the right to fight occupation. Despite the persistence of all the aforementioned conditions of occupation, violations and aggressions, and due to Lebanon’s adherence to all resolutions of international legitimacy — an adherence based on a clear understanding of the world community’s demands — the Government of Lebanon launched an internal dialogue between all Lebanese groups in order to maintain our unity, security and stability, and to reinforce our internal and international positions. We look forward to maintaining that rapport with the world community in order to achieve those noble goals. Since the historic reconciliation at Taef, Lebanon has enjoyed over a decade of stability and tranquillity, quickly recapturing its regional pre-eminence and its 8 pioneering role as a land of religious tolerance — an example to follow in the dialogue of civilizations. Moreover, Lebanon has enjoyed an unprecedented level of economic revitalization and has been able to forge iron-clad unity in its armed forces and civil institutions. However, Lebanon has recently gone through some horrific and fateful events, one of which — the assassination of Prime Minister Rafik Hariri — constitutes the hardest blow in its modern history. That assassination caused great grief for our nation, and the repercussions were felt throughout the world. We look forward to the timely and prompt disclosure of the International Inquiry Commission’s results of the investigation into that heinous act, and we thank the Security Council for consenting to Lebanon’s request to appoint such a Commission. Moreover, Lebanon appreciates the great efforts undertaken by the Inquiry Commission in its search for the truth, and will afford the Commission all the support that it needs in order for us to prosecute the culprits to the full extent of the law. That underlines the commitment of Lebanon and of the world community in the fight against terrorism. Despite the abominable assassination of Prime Minister Rafik Hariri and the ensuing national malaise, we were able to conduct exemplary parliamentary elections, which have been heralded by most observers as yet another landmark in the democratic history of Lebanon. United Nations and international monitoring officials testified that those elections were held in accordance with the highest standards. Consequently, a Government of national unity has been formed, which has taken upon itself the task of immediately tackling Lebanon’s internal and external affairs, within the framework of a serious dialogue aimed at achieving a national consensus and the preservation of what we all desire, namely, Lebanon’s stability and national unity. The new Lebanese Government is determined to undertake a comprehensive plan of reform that will encompass all political, administrative and economic aspects, and as a first step it has established a much- needed consultative national body to formulate a new electoral law that will live up to the recommendations of the European Union’s delegated commission. Moreover, the Lebanese Government looks forward to the valuable support of the United Nations, and conveys the gratitude of the people of Lebanon. Finally, we commend the precise follow-up provided by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund for the rebuilding of a solid national economy. From this rostrum, we set forth Lebanon’s struggle for freedom, justice and the rule of law. It has been Lebanon’s fate to walk this path in a region of festering, decades-long conflicts and disputes. As such, it has ended up paying an exorbitant price in wars, occupations and assassinations. But Lebanon has been relentless in its devotion to what is good and right, and has always been able to defeat the forces of sedition and destruction. Today, we owe our moment of triumph to our perseverance and to the international community’s commitment to Lebanon. We ask that you take our hand, once again, as we cross the threshold from fear and war to hope and peace.It is my firm opinion that we achieved important results at our summit. We created a peacebuilding commission and agreed to establish a human rights council. We have good language on development, including unanimous agreement on the Millennium Development Goals, and we agreed on the responsibility to protect. We made progress towards consensus on the fight against terrorism and agreed on some essential management and reform issues. Some have expressed disappointment about the results of the summit and, indeed, not all of our ambitions were achieved. Does that imply that it is wrong to be ambitious? Of course not. In a world society of 191 Member States, we must accept that the end result of negotiations will always reflect a compromise between different ambitions, and that we have to be tolerant of each other’s diverse views and interests. As regards my own country’s expectations, it is a matter of concern that we did not agree on any measures to counter the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction — one of the greatest threats to humankind. We had also hoped for more specific agreement on the modalities for the human rights council and would have preferred clear parameters for the use of force, as well as solid language on the International Criminal Court. And the Netherlands would have liked to give the Secretary-General more scope to carry out his management responsibilities. But all in all, we have made clear progress. So let us now agree to remain ambitious, to move forward with implementing the programme we have agreed, and to allow the United Nations to deliver on our promises. I look forward to the outline of work the President of this Assembly has announced, and I fully support the accountability pact with which the Secretary-General has challenged us. We have also achieved something else, something less apparent but equally important. We have reaffirmed our political and moral support for a fundamental underlying principle, namely, that we need to build bridges through dialogue and cooperation and that we have to promote respect and tolerance. And we all share the conviction that, in promoting respect and tolerance across the globe, the United Nations has a central role to play. According to a well-known saying, there is only one thing we cannot tolerate, and that is intolerance. Indeed, the struggle to protect tolerance from intolerance is one of the great challenges of our time. It is in the interest of all States to take up the fight against radical ideologies that turn people into terrorists. Terrorism, as we all know, is a cross-border threat. People of all persuasions and beliefs are its innocent victims. And so we must respond collectively, both to terrorism and to the radical ideologies that feed and breed it. Rwanda and the wars in the former Yugoslavia are sharp reminders of how the political use of intolerant and racist rhetoric can even lead to genocide or ethnic cleansing. Still, I do not believe there is or will be a clash of civilizations. But there is a clash between the tolerant and the intolerant within and across our societies, within and across our civilizations. That is why it is now so important to take on the radical ideologies that foster violent extremism. Security Council resolution 1624 (2005), calling on all States to prohibit, by law, incitement to commit a terrorist act or acts, sends an important message to the hate-mongers. To fight an effective battle against violent extremism and terrorism, we must strike a careful balance between judicial and police measures, on the one hand, and meaningful dialogue on the other. Let us learn from each other in that respect. I believe that peer review in the human rights council could, in future, help us all to maintain that careful balance. Let us invest in a global culture of tolerance and mutual respect. We must not look at cultural, religious and ideological differences as unbridgeable divides separating adversaries. Instead, we should join forces for a global society in which the quest for greater unity goes hand in hand with respect for diversity. 22 The best way for societies to protect tolerance is for them to treasure their identity and, at the same time, dare to reassess the validity of their prevailing norms and standards. Recent events in the Netherlands, for example, have confronted our society with the question of how to protect our centuries-old tradition of tolerance from those who would abuse it to sow hatred and division. That process of reflection is an ongoing one, but part of the answer is to constantly remind ourselves that it is wrong to hold an entire community accountable for the deeds of individuals. Let us all vow to protect tolerance from intolerance. Let us invest in mutual respect and try to change the mindset of those who propagate intolerance and violent extremism. That will require permanent dialogue, with a central role for the United Nations, the only truly global platform we possess. Serious dialogue can also help to clear up misunderstandings. One of the most striking misunderstandings concerns the nature of secularism, by which I mean the separation of State and religious institutions. That separation protects the freedom of all citizens of all religious backgrounds, as well as of people who do not practice any religion. In the Netherlands, as elsewhere, politicians and political parties may be inspired by religion, as long as the institutions remain separate. That is precisely why, in my country and across the European continent, there is a place for Islam, just as there is a place for other religions. There is a place for any form of Islam that allows believers to be both Muslims and citizens of a democratic society. Citizenship means more than just holding a passport. True citizenship calls for an active contribution to the society of which one is a part. It also calls for a society that is open to the many and varied contributions of all its citizens. Radical ideologies that push people to isolate themselves from the rest of society and to reject or even attack the spirit of democracy will run up against our determined refusal to give even one inch, in my country and, I hope, everywhere. For intolerance is a global, cross- border phenomenon, which is why we so urgently need the United Nations at our side. United Nations reform will mean making good on our promises. It will require determined implementation of the plans and proposals we have agreed on. If we are serious about our effort to build a more humane, dignified and just world, United Nations reform must also strengthen the protection of tolerance from intolerance. In our fast-changing world, people long for safety and certainty, and that is understandable. But leaders all over the world have a duty to explain that narrow worldviews, with no place for differences, can offer no genuine protection. Without respect for diversity, there can be no unity. If we want to protect tolerance from intolerance, we should look critically at what we teach our children. How can we expect them to become tolerant adults if they learn in school to despise people of other faiths and ethnicities? It is not enough for Governments to do polite business with other Governments; they should, at the same time, not allow hotbeds of intolerance to exist in their societies. There is an old saying that we reap what we sow. If we wish to reap a harvest of tolerance and mutual respect, and foster a sense of common purpose, then we must set to work now. Let us begin sowing the seeds of tolerance and mutual respect here at the United Nations, the world’s main crossroads of civilizations.On behalf of the Government of the Republic of San Marino, I wish to congratulate Ambassador Jan Eliasson on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I also wish to express to the outgoing President, Mr. Jean Ping, our deepest gratitude for his commitment and determination in fulfilling his mandate. At the outset, I would also like to express my appreciation for the result of the outcome document. I am confident that, with a clear mandate for our heads of State and Government, we will be able to reach our goals. The United Nations is at an extremely important and critical juncture. Indeed, the challenge of United Nations reform has become inevitable and necessary in laying the foundations of its future activity. It is now all too clear that the reform will involve its major bodies, working methods and management of human and economic resources. The United Nations structure will be modified with the aim of showing the entire world that the Organization is an efficient and 16 democratic body that can guarantee peace and development. The reform, which will lead to tension and require sacrifices, will be criticized by a number of States, as is the case with all difficult compromises. The process will be long and encounter numerous obstacles, but it is necessary and indispensable. San Marino believes that the reform process already under way will not stop. However, changes will have to be wide-ranging and take account of the need to face important issues, such as the reform of the Security Council. Most importantly, the reform will have to be supported by the widest possible consensus and based on two principles: democracy and transparency. We hope the enlargement will take into account the widest possible geographical and regional representation and that the solution’s methods and ideas will not be forcibly imposed or privilege the interests of only a few countries. We endorse the principles of “Uniting for consensus” and are ready to consider any proposal that does not create fractures and can establish a new and lasting balance. For San Marino, the United Nations must be based upon democracy, which gives it its legitimacy and moral strength. Streamlining structures and procedures is also necessary to greater effectiveness, because it is in the field, among people, that the United Nations really fulfils its mission. Indeed, it is the people who determine the importance of this Organization in the improvement of their lives. With regard to some essential aspects presently under discussion, San Marino feels that the proposed creation of a human rights council may not solve the basic problem of the Commission on Human Rights, which is politicization. However, San Marino is of the view that human rights protection deserves the same consideration given by the Economic and Social Council to social and economic aspects and by the Security Council to peace and security. The human rights council should be directly accountable to the General Assembly and have a broad-based composition allowing for the adequate participation of small and medium-sized countries. Moreover, the specific competencies of the new council vis-à-vis the Third Committee should be established in order to avoid duplication of activities and inefficiencies. The proposed peacebuilding commission is an excellent institutional response to post-conflict situations. The commission should play an important role not only in the resolution, but also in the prevention of conflicts. Moreover, it should find ad hoc solutions for countries in transition from totalitarianism or institutional anarchy to democracy. In our view, the commission should submit recommendations to the Security Council on measures to be adopted to guarantee consistency in peace interventions, economic recovery processes, the rebuilding of national institutions and public administration, and the strengthening of democracy and the rule of law. Moreover, we believe that the Commission should be composed of members of the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council, as well as of countries directly involved in specific situations. Just a few days ago, the majority of the world leaders gathered in this very Hall to discuss what has been done so far to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. Over the past five years, development assistance activities have fallen short of expectations. We sincerely hope that the recently concluded summit will promote and encourage stronger commitment by all developed and developing countries. San Marino has followed very attentively the reform process initiated by the Secretary-General and has actively participated in the discussions of the Panel’s report and of the Secretary-General’s report entitled “In larger freedom”, as well as in the negotiations of the outcome document of the General Assembly. We would have liked the latter document to contain more incisive and comprehensive proposals. San Marino is aware that development is the sine qua non condition for achieving the Millennium Goals. Today, in the twenty-first century, more than a billion people still live on less than a dollar a day and 30,000 children die every day from hunger. Those figures cannot leave us indifferent. Only by eradicating poverty, underdevelopment and epidemics, and by forgiving the crushing debt of developing countries, will collective well-being be achieved. Peace and security are intimately linked to the Millennium Goals, as they are essential for a country to improve its economic and human conditions. Peace and security cannot be separated from concerns about 17 terrorism, as evidenced by the numerous recent cowardly attacks. Terrorism must not divert the international community from its commitment to promoting democratization, the culture of peace and respect for religions, ethnic groups and different cultures. All States must share the responsibility for fighting terrorism and cooperate at the regional and international levels to implement specific and effective preventive measures. Every State must adopt the necessary legislation to break the vicious cycle of terrorism and to prevent its financing through economic and banking cooperation. The principle of “the responsibility to protect” is an extremely interesting concept. That idea, however, can be accepted only if understood not as a violation of national sovereignty, but as a duty of all States vis-à- vis countries plagued by massacres, genocide and humanitarian crises. San Marino is closely following developments in the peace process in the Middle East. The decision of the Israeli Government to remove its settlers from the Gaza Strip and the West Bank has been one of the most significant steps in the implementation of the road map and Prime Minister Sharon has showed great courage and determination, despite all domestic difficulties, in taking such a decision. San Marino shares the hope of the international community that the Palestinian Government will also fully respect its commitments and, by completely rejecting terrorism perpetrated by extremist groups, will maintain and strengthen the dialogue and constructive relations responsibly established with the Israeli Government. We welcome with great satisfaction the recent elections held in the new Afghanistan, now on its way to democracy and with a higher degree of freedom, as well as the elections and approval of the new Constitution in Iraq, which we hope may lead to a real institutional, social and cultural rebirth of that country. We cannot fail to address and stress the situation of women and children in our discussions on the concerns to be addressed at the beginning of this Millennium and on the development of humankind. Children, in particular, are most vulnerable to war and famine and bear the brunt of adult actions and decisions. Bombings and conflicts, malnutrition, poverty, treatable diseases, child labour and sexual abuse cause them great suffering and death. If people were merely to stop and think of those children, many of the worst events in the world could be avoided. This year, my country has undertaken a number of humanitarian initiatives in favour of children, mainly in Africa, with the support of our institutions. Let me mention, in that regard, the recent unanimous decision of my Parliament in favour of programmes improving childhood conditions in Uganda. Poverty and hunger are the prison in which many women eke out their existence, victims of injustice and discrimination. Our inability to free those women, despite all the means available, is one of the major scandals of our day. At a time of economic well-being and progress, though not widespread, complicity with that injustice through negligence or incapacity is unacceptable. The mass media now at our disposal do not allow us to ignore that situation. The implementation of Beijing and Beijing+5 is crucial to demolishing the walls of that prison and to guaranteeing respect and development for the women of the twenty-first century. Last year, San Marino ratified the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and, last June, Parliament approved accession to its Optional Protocol. I deposited our instruments of accession upon my arrival here in New York. Moreover, San Marino is tirelessly committed to supporting women’s complete integration into and equality in its society. On this occasion, I would express the hope that the international community will strengthen its efforts to protect the environment and prevent natural disasters. To that end, international cooperation is of the utmost importance, and the Kyoto Protocol is a particularly important instrument for our country. On that subject, I wish to reiterate my country’s condolences and solidarity to the people tragically struck by natural disasters, such as those in South-East Asia some months ago and, more recently, along the coasts of the Gulf of Mexico in the United States of America. The Millennium Development Goals, peace processes, fighting injustice and our many other great challenges may seem impossible to face, but humankind has the necessary resources and 18 instruments to achieve those objectives and the United Nations is one of the major tools at our disposal. I am confident that the Organization will be up to that noble task. To that end, I express my most sincere wishes to you, Sir, to the Secretary-General and to all colleagues, diplomats and officials who believe in the ideals of the United Nations.Mr. President, allow me at the outset to congratulate you warmly on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I would also like to express my confidence that your well-known wisdom and competence will contribute to enriching and focusing the deliberations of this Assembly. Moreover, I would like to express my gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for the strenuous efforts he exerted during the past session. I would especially like to convey my appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his notable efforts in advancing the reform process in the United Nations. From this rostrum, allow me to convey my country's solidarity with the people and Government of the United States of America for the tragedy that was inflicted on certain regions and cities by Hurricane Katrina. I would like to extend our sincere condolences to the families of the victims and our sympathy for the destruction caused by the hurricane. Tackling the reform of the United Nations requires the objective recognition that the Organization, since its establishment in 1945, has achieved a large measure of success in the realization of the purposes and principles of its Charter. Objectivity further requires the admission that substantive and concrete changes have affected the core of the international order and the network of international relations; this has made it imperative to review the role of the United Nations as a matter of a real and urgent international necessity. Such a review should focus on a comprehensive revitalization of this role in order to enable the Organization to respond to such challenges and changes affecting the international system. The United Nations Charter is a document that is capable of coping with international developments, provided that Member States have the political will to introduce the necessary reforms into the work of the main organs of the Organization. The reforms should ensure that these bodies are able to fulfil the ambitions of member States and, at the same time, provide the environment and mechanism necessary to guarantee the faithful application of the Charter's provisions and the implementation of resolutions adopted, particularly Security Council resolutions, without discrimination. In this context, we would like to welcome the results of this year's world summit and the adoption of the outcome document, even though more could have been achieved in the document, particularly in relation to the renewal of the international community's commitment to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Nevertheless, we hope that the document will be a starting point to development and reform, which we all hope to achieve, so that the United Nations remains the cornerstone of the system of international relations. While emphasizing the principles of the non-use of force in international relations and non-interference in the internal affairs of States, we believe that the Charter's provisions, if applied, would respond to the new and unconventional challenges that constitute a possible threat to international peace and security. The Security Council can deal with such challenges appropriately and in a timely manner, if the will exists to do so, without exceeding its powers. This requires that serious consideration be given to revitalizing the Council's mechanisms in order to make them more democratic, transparent and representative. That, in turn, requires an expansion of both permanent and non-permanent membership of the Council in a way that reflects the current international situation and the significant increase in United Nations membership. In the context of reform, it is imperative to strengthen the General Assembly and enhance its role, which complements that of the Security Council in the maintenance of international peace and security. The role of the General Assembly is central, since it is the organ in which all United Nations Member States are represented. It is, therefore, capable of dealing effectively with the requirements of enhanced multilateral international cooperation and the development of the policies necessary for such cooperation. 18 We support the development of the work of the Economic and Social Council in order to resolve emerging economic, social and development challenges and problems. We would like to emphasize the Council's leading role in coordinating and guiding the international development process and promoting the achievement of the MDGs, which Member States pledged to implement and fulfil by the year 2015. It is important to consider seriously the current coordination mechanisms with other international organizations involved in development and the liberalization of world economy and trade. It is also imperative to consider the reduction of the debt of developing countries, in accordance with a methodology that helps to achieve sustainable development and bridge the widening gap between developed and developing countries. Moreover, this development methodology ought to parallel commitments by States towards certain key issues, such as the promotion of good governance, respect for human rights and basic freedoms and the combating of corruption. This is done through a reform process that should take into consideration the particular cultural specificities of each State. Confronting the existing challenges and settling conflicts requires us to emphasize the necessity to respect the rule of law and human rights. Combating international terrorism is a priority that requires the close cooperation of all on the basis of the principles mentioned earlier. The same can be said of responses to acts of aggression against others, which should accord with existing commitments under the Charter, international law and Security Council resolutions. To safeguard human rights, it is crucial to revitalize human rights mechanisms, promote their work and establish new machinery, including a Human Rights Council. In the same context, respect for the rule of law requires that we address more serious crimes against the international community ó hence the pivotal role of the International Criminal Court in combating war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity. Moreover, the promotion of the rule of law makes it imperative to resort to the International Court of Justice to settle disputes between States and to respect its decisions and advisory opinions. My country is committed to reform and development. We believe that the ideal paradigm for reform is one that comes from within and aims to enhance the protection of human rights and basic freedoms, as well as expanding grass-roots participation in national decision-making. Jordan is in the process of launching a national agenda aimed at formulating a comprehensive reform methodology in the political, economic and social areas over the next 10 years. The agenda also aims to promote grass-roots participation in political decision-making on the basis of a solid democratic choice. Any real reform and development in a State is affected, positively or negatively, by the political and geographical realities of the region. The pattern of reform in Jordan and the Middle East will be more sustainable and progressive if the political settlement based on the international terms of reference of the peace process, the road map and the Arab peace initiative attains its goal of achieving a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in the Middle East. Jordan welcomes the Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and certain settlements in the northern West Bank. We stress that this withdrawal is not an alternative to the road map but must be part of it, and that both the Israeli and Palestinian sides must carry out their respective obligations under the road map as well as the recent Sharm el-Sheikh Understandings. In that regard, we call upon Israel to withdraw its military forces from the Palestinian towns reoccupied in September 2000 and to cease all forms of settlement activity in the occupied West Bank, including East Jerusalem. We also call upon Israel to cease the construction of the separation wall in the occupied Palestinian territories and to demolish the segments that have already been built in those territories. We call on it to return the property that was seized and to pay compensation for the damage incurred. The construction of the wall along its current route constitutes a clear and continuous violation of the established norms of international law, including the right to self-determination, human rights principles and the rules of international humanitarian law. That fact was emphasized by the International Court of Justice in its landmark advisory opinion on the subject. We also urge support for the Palestinian National Authority in its genuine efforts to preserve the truce and to deal firmly with any violations of it or the ceasefire. We call upon the international community and the Quartet in particular to provide all possible 19 assistance to the Authority. We emphasize here that the most important outcome of the road map is the establishment of an independent, viable Palestinian State that is geographically contiguous, with East Jerusalem as its capital, whose borders are based on those existing before 5 June 1967. Moreover, we must create conditions conducive to completing the peace process in order to achieve a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East, on the basis of full Israeli withdrawal from all the occupied Arab territories, including the Syrian Golan Heights, and to reach an agreed solution on the issue of the Palestinian refugees, based on General Assembly resolution 194 (III). That should lead to the establishment of normal relations between the Arab States and Israel, in accordance with the Arab peace initiative and the international terms of reference of the peace process. The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan rejects all forms and manifestations of terrorism, regardless of justifications. We stand together on the front lines, in word and deed, to eradicate that scourge, which has afflicted the entire international community and left no one unscathed. My country also rejects all unjust and suspicious attempts to tie that criminal phenomenon to a specific religion, culture or geographical region, and we stand firm against any such attempt to tie it to the Islamic religion. Islam, in substance and practice, is based on moderation and facilitation. It was a pioneer in promoting the protection of human rights and safeguarding the life, dignity and property of persons. It rejects any infringement on these concepts, even in time of war. In that context, the Amman message would emphasize that this divine religion is beyond any suspicion linking its teachings to incitement to harm innocent human beings. Jordan welcomes the adoption of the Convention on the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism and supports the efforts under way to ensure the adoption of the comprehensive convention to combat terrorism. We further endorse the proposal made by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to establish an international centre to combat terrorism, which was adopted by the Counter- terrorism International Conference, held in Saudi Arabia early this year. Jordan will continue to assist Iraq in overcoming its current crisis and in consolidating its safety and security. We condemn all aspects and practices of terrorism and extremism in the country, which daily kills scores of innocent people. My country calls on all groups and sectors of the Iraqi population to reach consensus on the basic principles and elements necessary to preserve the unity of Iraq and the inviolability of its territory and to ensure that it continues to belong to the Arab world. We also call for the respect of religious, ethnic and sectarian diversity in the framework of free democratic choice, without prejudice to the rights of its minorities. We reiterate our support for the political process in Iraq and call on the international community to lend its support to create the appropriate conditions for its success. We call also on the United Nations to continue playing its important role. Let me now turn to an issue that is important to Jordan: the drying out of the Dead Sea, and how to pre-empt an ensuing environmental crisis through the implementation of the Red Sea-Dead Sea Canal Project. An agreement was reached recently by the relevant parties and beneficiaries of the project, namely Jordan, Israel and the Palestinian National Authority, on a feasibility study for the construction of the canal. We look forward to continued international support for this project and the implementation of all its phases, in accordance with the agreement mentioned earlier. The future of the Middle East requires the creation of strong civil societies enjoying decent lives and deriving their guidance from their strong belief in their heritage. We are endeavouring to achieve this goal at the national level through effective reform projects, whose benefits are beginning to be evident in Jordan. But stability, security and peace are essential to creating a suitable environment for such societies. Putting an end to the Israeli occupation of Arab territories and reaching a just and comprehensive solution will contribute to bringing about a bright future.Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at the sixtieth session. We are delighted to see a distinguished son of Sweden and a friend of Mozambique in the stewardship of this body and wish to express our confidence that, under your able leadership, our deliberations will produce successful results. I would like to take this opportunity to pay a well-deserved tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, for the remarkable manner in which he spearheaded the deliberations of the fifty- ninth session of General Assembly. May I also commend the Secretary-General for his continued vision and leadership in our collective efforts to pursue the fundamental ideals of the United Nations, in particular the implementation of the international agenda for peace and development highlighted in his report (A/59/2005). We encourage him to continue his outstanding work. We gather here today inspired by the spirit of togetherness and collective vision on the path that we should strive to continue to travel in order to achieve our common aspirations, as underscored throughout the deliberations of the High-level Plenary Meeting. We must seize this momentum to reinforce multilateralism as a guiding principle upon which the international community should rely to adequately face today's challenges. We believe that the emphasis of the World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1) on the vital importance of an effective multilateral system and our determination to fulfil the commitments we set for ourselves will generate and galvanize good momentum for action aimed at tangible results. As we celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations, we should reflect on what we want the Organization to be and on what role each country and region should play in these collective endeavours. In recognizing inclusiveness and the equal rights of men and women and of all nations, the Charter of the United Nations builds on our diverse cultural and traditional values to unite us around our common humanity. Our failure to overcome the poverty trap in which developing countries are caught, as well as the constant threat posed by terrorism, indicates the need for an international system that is more inclusive and democratic and that conforms to the Charter of the United Nations and the relevant provisions of international law. It is our firm belief that the United Nations continues to be an indispensable instrument for achieving those objectives. Thus, the strength of the Organization must be high on our agenda. We ought to improve its performance by reforming its organs and structures. Therefore, it is our sincere hope that United Nations reform will help to foster strong relationships and cooperative links of coordination among all its principal organs, in particular the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council. Security Council reform should be aimed at building transparency, democracy, openness and consistency with regard to all regions represented in the Organization. In that regard, the growing political commitment and involvement of Africa in the international agenda for peace and stability calls for enhanced representation on the Security Council. We hope that the recently proposed Peacebuilding Commission will help to keep sustained international attention on countries in transition from post-conflict situations to recovery and long-term development and ensure continued support for them. Indeed, the experience of Mozambique's transition from a post- conflict situation to reconstruction and development testifies to the valuable contribution and impact of the concerted support provided by the United Nations and 25 the international community for peace and development efforts. The adoption of the Millennium Declaration and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) gave new momentum to our quest to fight poverty, accelerate human development and facilitate the gradual and effective integration of the developing world into the global economy. Despite the less ambitious outcome of the recently concluded summit, the time has come to build a genuine international partnership and to reaffirm our political will to fully implement internationally agreed commitments. We need to work diligently to implement the commitments made in Monterrey. In that regard, the establishment of a detailed calendar for the implementation of the goals set on financing for development is vital to generate access to additional financial support for developing countries. To that end, we welcome the decision by the European Union to set collective and specific targets with a view to reaching the internationally agreed target of devoting 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP) to official development assistance (ODA) by 2015. The sustainable development of low-income countries, particularly in Africa, depends upon a more open, equitable and rules-based multilateral trading system, as trade constitutes an engine for growth and development. In that regard, we view partnership agreements such as the Cotonou Agreement and the African Growth and Opportunity Act as important steps towards fulfilling some of the development objectives. We strongly believe that the completion of the Doha round by 2006 will help to establish an international trading system consistent with development goals and policies. While developing countries are striving to finance the MDGs, debt servicing has been diverting significant amounts of their limited resources, at the cost of social and economic development. In that context, we reiterate the calls for more radical action by the international community, in line with recommendations that debt relief should cover multilateral and bilateral debt and reduce debt stock and debt servicing by up to 100 per cent. To that end, we support the continuation of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative and other relief measures, particularly those addressing the special needs of African countries. In that regard, we commend the debt-cancellation decision made by the ministers for finance of the Group of Eight (G-8) in favour of 18 developing countries, including Mozambique. We encourage the G-8 and other development partners to continue with such important initiatives and to address the unsustainable debt burden of many developing countries, so that new resources can be invested in pursuit of poverty reduction. The Government of the Republic of Mozambique is now fully engaged in the implementation of its programme for 2005-2009 that incorporates our vision of development based on continuity and renewal. That approach is founded on past experiences and programmes pursued in the quest for development and the well-being of all Mozambicans. The eradication of poverty requires new dynamism and vigour, as clearly pointed out in the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), the Brussels Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries and the Millennium Development Goals. In that context, our five-year programme focuses on integrated rural development and the expansion of basic economic and social infrastructure, with the aim of reducing absolute poverty through the promotion of rapid, comprehensive and sustained economic growth and job creation. In addressing social and economic development, the programme seeks mainly to reduce regional imbalances and to expand the supply of basic services such as health, education and access to electricity and safe drinking water. The programme also gives due attention to the fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria and other infectious diseases, as well as to the special needs of young people in terms of training, employment and housing. Through the implementation of sound political and macroeconomic policies and strategies for development, we have registered economic growth rates that have averaged 7.5 per cent annually from 2000 to 2005. Poverty levels have declined significantly, from 69.5 per cent in 1997 to 54 per cent in 2003. That has been possible due to our focus on our nationally owned poverty eradication strategy. That strategy has not only mainstreamed the MDGs and adapted them to our own realities; it also embodies a clear pro-poor and people-centred development strategy. The consolidation of peace, democracy and national unity continue to be high on our national 26 agenda, as we recognize that peace and stability are sine qua nons for securing sustainable development in our country. We continue to build self-confidence around Africa. The continent counts on NEPAD to raise the spirit of ownership of African leaders, and thus bring about significant changes in our development. The adherence to date of 28 countries to the African Peer Review Mechanism has bolstered the credibility of participating States, as it ensures that their policies and practices comply with agreed political, economic and corporate-governance values, codes and standards. We are seeing good examples of conflict resolution in Africa. However, conflicts continue to cause unbearable human suffering, which deprives a large number of our fellow Africans of their inalienable right to live in dignity. We commend the efforts of the Secretary-General and the international community at large to address both humanitarian crises and the root causes of conflict in Africa. With regard to Western Sahara, we urge the parties concerned to work together with the Secretary- General with a view to finding a political solution to the long-standing conflict in that country. We are following with keen interest the latest developments in the Middle East. We continue to believe that a lasting solution to the question of Palestine ó the core of the conflict in the region ó must be in accordance with international law and relevant United Nations resolutions and must fully recognize the right of the Palestinian people to self- determination. We welcome the decision to conclude a comprehensive convention on terrorism not later than June 2006, for that will constitute a further effort to strengthen the international community's resolve to face the challenge of eliminating the scourge of terrorism. Similarly, we would like to stress the importance of regional agreements and declarations to combat and eliminate terrorism in all its forms as a tool to strengthen cooperation among Member States and provide a platform for the effective implementation of international legal instruments to suppress terrorism. We support the calls for a transparent verification mechanism that can help to prevent the use of nuclear weapons against non-nuclear States. In that regard, we also share the view that all States parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, without discrimination and while undertaking their responsibilities for nuclear disarmament and non- proliferation, should have the right to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, as well as to engage in research on nuclear technology in conformity with the provisions of the Treaty. We would like to conclude by reaffirming the commitment of Mozambique to the principles and purposes enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, as well as our belief that the United Nations reform process will strengthen the Organization with a view to providing more and better assistance to all Member States, in particular with respect to addressing the special needs of Africa.On behalf of the United Republic of Tanzania, I congratulate the President on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I wish him every success. I would also like to extend my delegation’s gratitude to his predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for presiding over the Assembly’s fifty-ninth session, which, among other accomplishments, successfully negotiated the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting. At the outset, I should like to commend Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his outstanding and tenacious leadership of the United Nations through one of the most trying interludes in the Organization’s history. That period has probably been the most creative and visionary in the Secretary-General’s career, as he inspired the Organization and its membership to embark upon ambitious and much- needed reforms to make the Organization relevant and equal to the threats and challenges of a globalizing world in the twenty-first century. The summit that has just ended set the tone, agenda and direction for where the United Nations should go 60 years after its inception at San Francisco in 1945. The pace of reform will be determined by the collective political dedication of us, the Members of the Organization. The process of United Nations reform has brought us together and reaffirmed the sovereign equality of nations and demonstrated the indispensability of collective action and the demands of shared responsibility and obligations in international affairs. Although what we have agreed upon falls short of what we set out to accomplish, we have to put details into what we need to implement with the same spirit of collective dedication and a sense of common purpose. We should not allow political expediency and posturing to rob us of our declared objectives. The glaring indignities of poverty, hunger, illiteracy and preventable disease amidst the glamour and opulence of prosperity in some quarters of the world should be relegated to the dustbin of history. That is achievable if we implement the commitments that we resolved to undertake at the summit that has just ended. At Monterrey we agreed on a framework for partnership. For some members of the G-8, Gleneagles transformed a 30-year-old pledge to devote 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP) to official development assistance into a timetable; for others, it resulted in predictable increases. Debt 37 sustainability has finally given way to debt cancellation for some countries, including my own, the United Republic of Tanzania. That is a tremendous relief and will make a significant quantitative and qualitative difference to our development programmes and priorities. Trade and investment have also received acceptance as being central to growth and development. The Doha trade and development round of negotiations, to take place in Hong Kong later this year, should be completed with agreements on pending issues such as subsidies. The political capital generated at the summit should bring about a convergence of resources from our development partners and the economic, political, fiscal and institutional reforms already under way in Africa, and result in predictable and implementable development programmes. The issue of absorptive capacity should not arise when there is coherence and coordination among our partners within a collaborative framework at country level to mainstream assistance into national development strategies and priorities. The United Republic of Tanzania has already complied with the critical element of paragraph 22 (a) of the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1), which calls upon developing countries to adopt and implement comprehensive national strategies to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDG). We are ahead in achieving the goal regarding universal primary education, namely, nine years before the 2015 deadline. We are on-course in achieving the goals regarding access to safe drinking water, reducing child mortality and promoting gender equality in political participation and decision-making structures. With steady assistance and our macroeconomic and political stability, we should get closer to achieving most of the Goals by 2015. In sub-Saharan Africa individual countries are accelerating reforms and improving the climate for investment. Frontloading aid flows and innovative new sources of finance to bridge the financial gap in achieving the MDGs should be scaled up, as should aid-in-trade to overcome supply side constraints. Subsidies and market-access issues should also be addressed simultaneously in the international development agenda. The outcome of the Helsinki process, with its wealth of ideas, adds tremendous value both to the reform process launched last week and to the overall international development agenda. It addresses political deficits and requirements to bring about purposeful development and democratic changes in this era of globalization. The relationship between development and security at the national and international levels has clearly emerged during the debate and negotiations on the 2005 World Summit Outcome, on which I do not need to dwell here. The arms race in conventional and nuclear weapons can only bring the world to apocalyptic brinkmanship — by design or by accident. The agonizing endeavour to mobilize development efforts to achieve the MDGs stands in stark contrast to the irony of spending trillions of dollars on armaments of total and mass destruction. It is therefore most disconcerting that the summit was unable to come up with an agreement on disarmament and non- proliferation. We should not give up on the subject of disarmament and non-proliferation. Let us therefore make another effort to resume negotiations on those issues. We in Tanzania and in our region are also particularly keen to see a global convention concluded soon to regulate the marking and tracing of all small arms and light weapons and on the illicit brokering of arms which fuel violent conflicts and instability in our regions in Africa. Collective security cannot be enhanced without reform of the Security Council. The reform of the Security Council too has been deferred, but the issue of the Council’s expansion and the reform of its working methods should remain on the agenda. Negotiations on the issue should resume soon. The United Republic of Tanzania supports the Ezulwini consensus on the reform of the Security Council, bearing in mind that only Africa has yet to have either a permanent seat or a veto in the Council. Our interlocutors should recognize that imbalance in our negotiations and should try to accommodate Africa’s demands to make the Security Council more, not less, representative and more, not less, legitimate. The condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations brings us closer to an agreed definition, which would be helpful in galvanizing our undivided efforts to combat terrorism. The lack of an agreed definition, however, should not delay an agreement on a comprehensive anti-terrorism convention in the course of this session of the General 38 Assembly. As a victim of terrorism in recent years, the United Republic of Tanzania has a compelling reason to support a global anti-terrorist strategy. Respect for the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all people is entrenched in the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and buttressed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. For nearly 60 years, the institutional expression and status of human rights in the United Nations has been evolving, and it still is. We support the establishment of the Human Rights Council to the extent that it will elevate the centrality of human rights, enhance the moral authority and integrity of the United Nations, and overcome the shortcomings of the current Commission on Human Rights. The new Council should embody the principles and practices of peer review in its working methods to avoid double standards in accountability and compliance, which have plagued the Human Rights Commission. The new concept of the “responsibility to protect” merits our support, after the recent international failures to protect people in Rwanda and Bosnia. The responsibility to protect should be a collective undertaking by States to protect populations from genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. However, we will need to establish benchmarks and safeguards to guarantee against unilateral and politically motivated interventions, such as those experienced in the past with what were conceived and presented as humanitarian intervention. The African continent is the main scene of both looming and several ongoing natural and human-made disasters. Some are forgotten and protracted, while others gain initial media attention but receive delayed, and often inadequate, responses. We support the recommendations in the outcome document for new standby arrangements and funding for emergencies in Africa. There is an international regime in place to provide protection and assistance to refugees fleeing for their lives from persecution, violence and gross violations of human rights. The United Republic of Tanzania has received and protected such victims since we became independent, in 1961. Currently, Tanzania is still hosting over half a million refugees. We are gratified and encouraged by the commitment in the outcome document to safeguard the institution of asylum and by its reaffirmation of the principle of solidarity and burden-sharing in assisting refugee populations and their host communities. We equally hope that the recognition of the Guiding Principles on Internal Displacement will provide more effective protection for internally displaced persons by relevant and appropriate authorities. The outcome document has duly recognized the tragedy of the HIV/AIDS pandemic, the malaria and the tuberculosis that have hit Africa so hard. That global awareness should be matched by adequate funding to save current and succeeding generations from the ravages of those diseases. Tanzania would like to thank President Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria for the statement he made, in his capacity as Chairman of the African Union, on the situation relating to conflicts, peace and security in Africa. We are grateful to him, to other African leaders and to the Chairman of the African Union Commission — His Excellency President Alpha Konare — as well as to all our friends outside Africa, for their dedicated efforts to prevent and resolve conflicts in Africa. Last week, the Security Council adopted its resolution 1625 (2005), on strengthening the effectiveness of the Council’s role in conflict prevention, particularly in Africa. Among other things, the resolution stresses the importance of averting conflicts to make possible peaceful development, security and stability in Africa. The resolution also calls for the strengthening of cooperation and communication between the United Nations and regional organizations such as the African Union in mediation efforts and peacekeeping. The bulk of United Nations peacekeeping operations are in Africa, following peace agreements that are at various stages of implementation. Despite serious numerical, logistical, financial and sometimes image constraints, multidimensional peacekeeping operations are making positive contributions to restoring peace in Africa in collaboration with the African Union and other friends of Africa. Political and operational partnerships between the United Nations and the African Union need to be strengthened and institutionalized. We welcome the implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement in the Sudan in partnership with the United Nations. We encourage progress in the current peace negotiations on Darfur. 39 The institutional and operational requirement to bridge the transitional gap from peacekeeping to development, in the form of a Peacebuilding Commission, is one of the main decisions to have been taken in the current reform of the United Nations. Africa needs the Commission. It should become operational as soon as possible. The peaceful outcomes in Burundi and Somalia — and, soon, in Sierra Leone and Liberia — require a peacebuilding mechanism during the transition from peacekeeping to reconstruction and development. The peace processes in both Burundi and Somalia have had tortuous paths, but those countries finally have peace agreements and transitional Governments in place. The Peacebuilding Commission should focus priority attention on both Burundi and Somalia. The second summit on the Great Lakes region, to be held later this year in Nairobi, will pave the way for a peace and security pact and for peacebuilding initiatives in the region. The only remaining case of self-determination in Africa is Western Sahara. We appeal for maximum cooperation by the parties concerned and for unrelenting support for the issue from the international community through the Baker plan. It is in the interest of all of us here to reach a peaceful solution to that problem. I cannot conclude my statement without addressing the situation in the Middle East, and in particular the question of Palestine, which remains of great concern to my Government. There have been path-breaking developments in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict to revive the road map and invigorate the initiatives of the Quartet. The new leadership of Mr. Mahmoud Abbas at the Palestinian Authority, the withdrawal of Israel from the Gaza Strip and the coming elections in the occupied territories are injecting new dynamism and a positive direction into the peace process. But we must accept the reality that the people of Palestine have equal rights, not only to live in peace and security in full human dignity but also to establish their own independent State, coexisting side by side with the State of Israel. We should therefore do all we can to help secure the just and lasting peace that is the right of the Palestinian, Israeli and Arab peoples. Finally, I want to reiterate our deepest sympathies and condolences to the victims, the Government and the people of the United States of America in the wake of the death and destruction wreaked by Hurricane Katrina.I join with other delegations in congratulating you, Mr. President, on your election to preside over the sixtieth session of the United Nations General Assembly. The Barbados delegation’s appreciation is also extended to the outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, Foreign Minister of Gabon, for the outstanding work he has done in guiding the Assembly during the previous session and particularly in the preparations for the High-level Plenary Meeting. Last week, heads of State and Government, in an attempt to define and articulate a global consensus, adopted an outcome document representing the determination of the vast majority to make progress towards full achievement of the goals and targets inspired by the Millennium Declaration, as well as a number of decisions on United Nations reform. Barbados, as part of the tremendous efforts made by many, had hoped for bolder and more ambitious commitments, particularly regarding development. In all of the circumstances, we accept that the outcome of the High-level Plenary Meeting provides the platform for coordinated international action in response to the complex and interconnected global challenges confronting this and future generations. The Millennium Development Goals are now recognized as the world’s time-bound, quantifiable targets for addressing poverty in its many dimensions of hunger, disease, lack of access to health care and education, gender inequality and environmental degradation. Progress on their achievement has been far from uniform across the world, or for that matter across the Goals. Unless action is taken on a much broader front and a much faster pace, the eminently laudable words of the Declaration will serve only as grim reminders of human needs neglected and of numerous promises unfulfilled. The Secretary-General has stated that our generation, with the combination of resources and technology at its disposal, must be the first to make the right of development a reality for everyone and to free the entire human race from war. Progress towards the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals in Barbados is encouraging. Although the regional report of the United Nations Development Programme presents an optimistic outlook for most Caribbean countries in respect of the first five Goals, the region faces severe challenges and constraints to their achievement. Foremost among them, and beyond our control, is our vulnerability to economic shocks and to every natural disaster known to mankind — be it hurricane, volcanic eruption, mudslide, earthquake or flood. Equally challenging is the fuller and more effective integration of Barbados in the globalized economy, for which a successful outcome of the next Doha development round of talks on trade liberalization is crucial. Permit me to refer to an outstanding omission from the Millennium Development Goals, that of sexual and reproductive health and rights. Indeed, the exclusion was so stark that the Secretary-General himself stated: “The Millennium Development Goals, particularly the eradication of extreme poverty 8 and hunger, cannot be achieved if questions of population and reproductive health are not squarely addressed. And that means stronger efforts to promote women’s rights and greater investment in education and health, including reproductive health and family planning.” We must seize the opportunity presented by this current review of the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals to mainstream sexual and reproductive health and rights by adopting a universal access target or indicator that can be used to facilitate the monitoring of progress in this area and to hold Governments accountable. Barbados takes the position that women are central to the successful implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. After all, women of childbearing age constitute one billion of the world’s poorest people, and for this group sexual and reproductive health issues are at the fore of problems of ill health and loss of productivity. Women living in poverty are not usually aware of their sexual and reproductive rights and are often ignorant about the services to which they have a right of access. Similarly, poor women, and in particular poor young women, are highly susceptible to contracting HIV/AIDS despite the prevalence of preventive measures. I feel compelled to support the call for mobilizing new resources for improved sexual and reproductive health services for women and for men worldwide. Individuals, non-governmental organizations and Governments in developing countries are already contributing more than 75 per cent to current expenditures in this field. It is certainly time for developed countries to live up to the pledges they made at the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development. Central to the global partnership for development, which is embodied in the eighth Millennium Development Goal, are the commitments by developing countries to pursue sound macroeconomic policies, to make the most creative use of our limited endowments, to respect human rights and to ensure that our material development takes place within the context of social justice, commitments that Barbados has proudly upheld since becoming independent in 1966. By the same token, developed countries must fulfil their obligations made at numerous United Nations summits and conferences on trade, debt and finance, and in particular their pledge to honour the outstanding target of 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product for official development assistance (ODA). Increases in ODA will not be sufficient to achieve the sustained economic growth and development that we all seek. It will also be necessary for the international community to address the indebtedness of poor and middle-income developing countries; promote foreign direct investment flows to a broader range of developing countries; confront serious global environmental problems such as climate change; combat HIV/AIDS; and reform multilateral trading arrangements as well as systemic deficiencies in the global economic and financial system. These are the real threats to our human security as we see it in the Caribbean. The Doha development round, launched by the World Trade Organization in 2001, is so called precisely because trade ministers deliberately sought to place development at the centre of multilateral trade negotiations. This decision inspired new hope in developing countries that we would be afforded the opportunity to participate more effectively and beneficially in the new global economic system. Regrettably, some of our developed country counterparts seem to have reneged on their commitment. We are still locked in a fierce struggle at the World Trade Organization to persuade these countries to rise above their narrow self-interests and embrace positions that would allow for the creation of a more just global economic order. Barbados fears that we could squander yet another opportunity genuinely to involve developing countries in the multilateral trading system. We do not believe that the international community can continue to ignore this fact. Furthermore, we are far from convinced that the High-level Plenary Meeting of last week fully refocused global attention on matters of development and rescued from obscurity the global development agenda, which has unfortunately been overtaken by a narrowly defined anti-terrorism agenda. “It is time to put the global development agenda, including that for the world’s smallest and most vulnerable countries and societies, back on track”. Those are the words of the Prime Minister of Barbados, The Right Honourable Owen Arthur. 9 Barbados considers that peace and collective security, human rights and the rule of law represent, in addition to development, a strong foundation on which the United Nations can assist the international community in building a stronger world. Issues of terrorism, responsibility to protect, disarmament and non-proliferation need also to be addressed. Terrorism affects all countries, both large and small, and all countries have an obligation to the international community to ensure that the perpetrators of acts of terrorism do not find safe haven and succour within their borders. While we believe that the United Nations should strongly and unequivocally issue a condemnation of terrorism in all of its forms, care must be taken to formulate an unambiguous definition that would provide a basis for a comprehensive convention. This would rightly place the United Nations at the very heart of the fight against terrorism, signalling a multilateral approach to this scourge. Closely linked to the issue of terrorism is that of disarmament and non-proliferation. Action taken by the United Nations must be clear and firm, and efforts must be redoubled to find compromises that would facilitate progress. The Caribbean remains a major route for international narco-traffickers and suffers from the destabilizing effects of the parallel illegal trade in small arms, promoted by the same transnational criminal elements. The absence of concerted international action against small arms trafficking places the peace-loving societies of the small Caribbean States at great risk. Small arms proliferation and the violence that accompanies it impact negatively on our development, our security and human rights, and pose a severe threat to the peaceful, stable and sustainable development of Caribbean democracies. Barbados supports the call for the negotiation of a new international instrument on the marking and tracing of weapons. This is an urgent priority which will provide the international community with an effective means of monitoring the movement and proliferation of small arms and taking comprehensive interdiction and enforcement action against illegal traders. Barbados remains resolute in its rejection of the continued use of the Caribbean Sea for the trans- shipment of nuclear and radioactive waste. This high- risk practice poses grave danger to our region in the event that there is an accident, a natural disaster or a terrorist attack. The Secretary-General has emphasized that if the United Nations is to be a useful instrument for its members and is to successfully address the challenges facing humanity, then it must be fully adapted to the needs and circumstances not only of today, but tomorrow as well. Barbados shares this view. Reform should not be seen as an end in and of itself, but as a means towards achieving the goals we have set ourselves in 2000 in the Millennium Declaration, to make the United Nations a more effective instrument for pursuing the priorities of the world’s peoples. Reform should also seek to enhance the role of the United Nations in global affairs to create the conditions for more democratic and transparent decision-making and to provide a forum for the full and equal participation of small States. Barbados believes that the main organs of the United Nations should be strengthened. This will require the revitalization of the General Assembly to make it the chief deliberative and policy-making body of the Organization, as envisaged by the United Nations Charter. It will further require the reform of the Security Council to make it more representative of current global geopolitical realities. Small States should be represented continuously in the membership of the Council, and any arrangements for the selection of the non-permanent members of a reformed Council should be so formulated. We are convinced that the Economic and Social Council should play a larger role in policy-making on international economic and social matters and the promotion of improved global economic governance. A restructured Economic and Social Council should find its voice again as a vibrant forum for economic policy dialogue, for promoting increased guidance and coordination to the United Nations funds, programmes and agencies and for monitoring the implementation and follow-up of the Millennium Development Goals and other major elements of the global development order. If the United Nations is to undertake fully and effectively the demanding responsibilities with which it has been charged, then it must be provided with the required level of resources, and the Secretary-General must be given appropriate managerial authority. The Barbados delegation intends to participate actively in 10 the delineation of these issues during this sixtieth session. As a small State, Barbados believes that a strong multilateral system, with the United Nations at its core, is our greatest protection from the unilateral pursuits of the powerful. We are unwavering in our commitment to the precepts of multilateralism and to the belief that no other international institution is better suited or equipped to meet the diverse demands for global peace, security and development than this Organization. As a member of the United Nations, Barbados must be assured that its voice will continue to be heard regardless of size or economic power. This is a struggle from which we are not at liberty to abstain.We congratulate the President of the General Assembly on the assumption of his office. His extensive experience in multilateral affairs will undoubtedly be an invaluable asset in our work. The 2005 world summit has clearly demonstrated that, in five years, we have not given poverty eradication the highest priority on our international agenda. It is clear that in too many countries the Millennium Development Goals will not be realized; in some, the situation is worse than five years ago. How then do we assure the marginalized people of our world that we are serious about achieving the Millennium Development Goals by the year 2015? The only way is by showing that there is the global political will to use the outcome document as a platform for action. In his report “In larger freedom”, Kofi Annan stressed that the priority objectives of the United Nations over the coming years should be to secure for people “freedom from want” and “freedom from fear”. What is often not recognized is that a person who is not free from want can only live in fear. The greatest evil — the most effective and consuming terrorism of our age — is the terrorism of abject poverty. It is a poverty in which millions of people live in terror because they know that sooner, not 10 later, they might die from hunger or from preventable diseases. Every day in our region of Central America and the Caribbean, our people face threats to their human security: from AIDS, drug trafficking, trafficking in human persons, crushing poverty and growing inequality. A new security approach is therefore required to contain these threats. We must promote the humanization of security rather than embark on efforts to militarize globalization. We must focus on stopping the deaths that occur every day, most often from preventable causes. Global security cannot be built on a minefield of poverty and disease. Prioritizing human security does not mean neglecting national sovereignty or State security. As part of our national security strategy, we remain committed to fostering a culture of peace and the peaceful resolution of conflicts. In the Middle East, we are encouraged by the Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip. We join others in calling upon the Government of Israel to continue the withdrawal from all Palestinian territories. We look forward to the implementation of its commitments in accordance with the road map that will lead to the realization of two independent States, Palestine and Israel, coexisting side by side in peace and security. The 23 million people on Taiwan also deserve to live in peace and security. We therefore continue to urge the United Nations to take up the plea of Taiwan to participate in this world body. Taiwan has earned its place among the community of nations. Belize continues to be plagued by an anachronistic claim to its territory from our neighbour Guatemala. But, encouragingly, earlier this month Belize and Guatemala signed a new agreement under the auspices of the Organization of American States. Under that agreement, if we are unable to resolve the dispute through negotiations, the Secretary-General of the Organization of American States can then recommend that we submit our differences to an international juridical body. We therefore hope that we can ensure the early and final resolution of this dispute, so that we can cooperate more effectively to combat our common problems of poverty and underdevelopment. We all recognize that there can be no security without development. The world summit outcome document maintains the vision of development elaborated in the Millennium Declaration, the Monterrey Consensus, the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation and other outcomes, including the Mauritius Strategy. If we are to make measurable progress in development, we must urgently implement the global partnership for development. That global partnership involves returning development issues to the forefront of trade negotiations. Without a deeper commitment from developed countries to trade regimes that are more just, the future of the sugar and banana industries in countries such as Belize hangs in the balance. We must therefore spare no effort to ensure that the latest Doha development round concludes on terms favourable to developing countries like Belize. As a coastal nation with a significant population in low-lying areas, my country emphasizes the need for new action to ensure environmental sustainability, particularly as it relates to climate change. We agree with the Secretary-General that: “One of the greatest environmental and development challenges in the twenty-first century will be that of controlling and coping with climate change.” (A/59/2005, para. 60) The increased temperatures occasioned by climate change are likely to lead to greater frequency of life-threatening weather systems. The most vulnerable to these changes will be small island developing States and coastal nations like Belize. It is therefore incumbent upon the international community to improve the framework for action to cope with climate change. The eleventh session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is an opportunity to forge wider and more inclusive cooperation to address that grave danger. So much of what we hope to achieve depends on a United Nations that is effective and credible. Some recent reports point to systemic problems throughout the United Nations Organization. These, in our view, provide evidence of an Organization that is flawed — not one that is irrelevant. Belize therefore continues to view the United Nations as an indispensable Organization. It is the only global Organization that has the capacity to meaningfully foster peace, security and sustainable development for the peoples of our world. 11 But the United Nations must reinvent itself to meet the needs of today’s geopolitics and unique global challenges. The General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council must be revitalized and strengthened. Similarly, the Security Council must be reformed to make it more accountable, inclusive and representative of the current membership of the United Nations. The establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission and of the Human Rights Council are important, but we must define ways in which these bodies can reinforce the work of the other principal organs of the United Nations. In the five years that have elapsed since the year 2000, our collective lack of political will has resulted in the loss of millions of children, women and men to hunger, disease, HIV/AIDS and other preventable causes. But we can halt and reverse that trend. We must give a reformed United Nations, as the ultimate expression of multilateralism, the means to carry out its mandate, as set out in Article I of the Charter: “To achieve international cooperation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character”. Our world is besieged by such problems. We can carry out this mandate by implementing all the commitments we have made since the year 2000, or we can ignore them and condemn many millions more to live in misery or die in pain. The choice is ours.I congratulate you, Mr. President, most warmly on the occasion of your election to this important post. The tireless support of Bulgaria for your mission will be among the most active, and I would like to express the profound gratitude of my country to your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for his remarkable work and his real courage. Following the best traditions in Bulgarian foreign policy, the new Bulgarian Government is deeply attached to the principle of multilateralism in international relations, and thus believes in the central nature of the United Nations as the only intergovernmental organization that is completely universal and extremely representative of the peoples of the world. Bulgaria is participating in the sixtieth session of the General Assembly as a country that has signed the Treaty of Accession to the European Union and acts with the status of active observer in the bodies and institutions of the European Union. My country has unreservedly supported the positions of the European Union during the preparatory work for the summit that has just taken place, and we fully support the analysis of the outcome document made by the United Kingdom presidency. The main purpose of this debate is to implement the decisions of the summit. I hope that each Member State will help to push forward reform in the United Nations, as set out in the outcome document (resolution 60/1). Substantial progress has been made in many key areas, and this is a good basis for the work of the sixtieth session. However, we are obliged to note with regret that some of the ambitious and innovative ideas in the report of the Secretary-General, “In larger freedom” (A/59/2005), welcomed and endorsed by Bulgaria, could not be adopted. We need to redouble our efforts so that these ideas can come to pass. Bulgaria supports the efforts of Secretary-General Kofi Annan in this respect and expresses the hope that his valuable contribution will continue. In parallel with the sixtieth anniversary of the creation of the United Nations, my country is also celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of its membership in the United Nations family. Over the last 50 years, the challenges facing humanity have increased in complexity and diversity, and the threats facing us tend to interweave and compound each other in a manner never seen before. However, just as 50 years ago, it is the human being who is at the centre of our attention as the supreme value, the human being with his individual security and his right to a life of dignity and happiness. The summit that has just concluded in New York has revived hope that the struggle to eradicate poverty, hunger and epidemics and to protect the environment can be won. The condition is that we need to mobilize the maximum amount of efforts and the maximum resources so that we can implement a real global partnership between the developed and developing countries. We support the European Union’s position of increasing official development assistance. 22 As a candidate for membership in the Economic and Social Council for 2007 to 2009, Bulgaria has decided to make its contribution to activities of the United Nations in the social and economic areas. The summit outcome document defines HIV/AIDS as being one of the greatest threats to humanity. Efforts of the entire international community are required in order to counter it. Children and young people are the most affected. The case of the Libyan children, contaminated with the HIV/AIDS virus in a hospital, is a tragedy deserving our compassion and our support. Bulgaria welcomes the adoption of appropriate measures to avoid such tragedies in the future. It will participate actively in the European Union’s plan of action, which it has just published, aimed at limiting the consequences of the epidemic of HIV/AIDS in Libya. My country supports the emergence of a new consensus in the United Nations relating to the chief threats to international peace and security and collective action against such threats. Bulgaria categorically condemns terrorism in all of its forms and manifestations. No cause can justify violence against innocent people. The United Nations has a leading and irreplaceable role in creating a global environment of intolerance and rejection of terrorism. For that reason, my delegation will support unconditionally the adoption during the sixtieth session of an anti-terrorist strategy. It is in the context of this strategy that we should seek lasting and long-term solutions to the political, economic and social causes fuelling this phenomenon. Bulgaria also insists that a common definition of terrorism be developed, making it possible to adopt a convention on international terrorism. It is clear that in order to combat terrorism effectively we need to neutralize all ideologies advocating terrorism. In that respect, we actively support initiatives that facilitate coexistence and dialogue between different civilizations, religions, ethnic groups and cultures. Bulgaria profoundly regrets that the problem of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction was not included in the summit outcome document, and we associate ourselves with the Secretary- General’s appeal to continue efforts in this priority area for our collective security. Bulgaria has wholeheartedly supported the idea of creating a Peacebuilding Commission since its inception. The creation of this body is one of the most important decisions of the summit. Allowing the Commission to begin its work as soon as possible will greatly increase the ability of the United Nations to consolidate the positive effects of peacekeeping operations. In each specific case, the Peacebuilding Commission cannot but benefit from the contribution from neighbouring countries and also from interested regional organizations. As a country in South-Eastern Europe, Bulgaria has been working tirelessly over the last few decades for the transformation of the potential for conflict in the Western Balkans into good-neighbourliness, cooperation and development. We are convinced that stability and prosperity in this region are ultimately indissolubly linked with the European perspective for the Western Balkans. The risks of military confrontation are decreasing, and what we have seen recently is the emergence of new forms of cooperation between States with the consolidation of democratic institutions, civil societies and rule of law in the common fight against organized crime and corruption. For my country such forms of cooperation are a priority also as regards the States of the region of the Black Sea, the Caspian Sea and Central Asia. The international community is on the threshold of a crucial decision for the future of Kosovo. The situation there is an example of a long and sometimes painful post-conflict settlement with the leadership of the United Nations, and in partnership with the European Union, NATO and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Reaching a just and lasting solution cannot ignore European norms and values. It must guarantee the rights of all of the inhabitants of the region without distinction as to their ethnic origin, their religious beliefs and language. This solution must be based on a respect of the territorial integrity of neighbouring countries and must contribute to regional security and stability. For Bulgaria the future of Kosovo lies in a unified Europe, and this can be achieved solely through the implementation of standards established by the Security Council. Bulgaria supports the efforts of the Government and the people of Iraq on the difficult road to peace, security and economic recovery. The conclusion of the constitutional process provided for by Security Council resolution 1546 (2004) is the sole means of achieving this. We have no doubt that the adoption of the new Iraqi constitution will make it possible to overcome 23 existing divisions and will be a cornerstone for constructing an Iraqi State that is unified, democratic and guarantees the rule of law. For its part, Bulgaria will continue to give its support to the Iraqi people in their efforts to build a democratic, completely independent future. Mr. Zarif (Islamic Republic of Iran), Vice- President, took the Chair. My country welcomes the positive trends that have been emerging in the process of consolidating the Afghan State, which the recent parliamentary elections have strikingly confirmed. Bulgaria will continue its contribution to the efforts of the international community to stabilize Afghanistan. We are continuing our assistance to the Afghan army. We agree with those who highlight the need to focus the attention of the international community on Africa. There is no doubt that a priority for the United Nations must be the settlement of regional and local conflicts on this continent, combating poverty, and the transition to sustainable development. The role of the African Union here is irreplaceable. For Bulgaria the protection and the promotion of human rights are priorities of the United Nations, as are the problems of development and security. We welcome the decision taken by the summit to create a Human Rights Council. In our view this Council should sit permanently and be elected directly by the General Assembly with a set majority. Its status should be higher than that of the existing Commission on Human Rights. The role of this new body would be to develop and improve the current practices of the Commission, particularly by regularly reviewing the state of human rights in all countries of the world while being ready to react in cases of grave and serious violations of human rights. In this respect Bulgaria repeats its support for the Democracy Fund, which could encourage the democratic process in countries that need it and that wish to be helped in this area. My country is now evaluating its national contribution to this Fund. Over the last few days in this Hall we have had a discussion on the protection of human rights worldwide. In this respect I cannot but mention a case that is of particular concern for Bulgarian public opinion. This involves the destiny of the five Bulgarian nurses and one Palestinian doctor condemned to death by a Libyan court in Benghazi. The innocence of the accused has been categorically confirmed by leading scientists in the field of HIV/AIDS. Bulgaria still insists that a just and fair decision be taken by the Supreme Court of Libya on 15 November. The consensus that has emerged on the concept of the “responsibility to protect” during the negotiations on the outcome document of the summit is a real breakthrough. It makes possible joint action by all Members of the United Nations in cases of genocide, ethnic cleansing and other mass crimes against humanity when national authorities refuse to act or are unable to protect their citizens. I am convinced that we are on the threshold of the most important and boldest reforms of the United Nations in its history. Only the collective will of all Member States can open the way to real change. The stakes are enormous: allow the United Nations to establish its reputation as the universal world Organization capable of proving once again its vitality in the face of the challenges of globalization.The summit marking the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations is over, but to bring it to completion our work here must build upon its outcome document (resolution 60/1) so as to fulfil the agreed package of reforms with vision and determination. The Holy See, having followed the outcome document's development closely, welcomes much of what is proposed. However, the lack of consensus on arms control and non- proliferation issues is regrettable. I should also like to add at the outset that the Holy See understands the references to both the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development and the outcome of the Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing, and to reproductive health found in paragraphs 57 (g), 58 and 58 (c) in the sense that it set out in its reservations and statements of interpretation at those Conferences, that is, as applying to a holistic concept of health that does not consider abortion or access to abortion as a dimension of those terms. These caveats aside, the document is a basis for implementation and ongoing discussions on United Nations reform. Due to the human tragedies of genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity, the 'responsibility to protect', as reflected in the outcome document, has, for humanitarian reasons, gained more acceptance. Its definitive legal formulation could greatly contribute to the enrichment not only of international law but also of sincere solidarity among nations. To identify carefully and honestly the causes of such man-made disasters is indispensable to creating more timely prevention measures. Protection of those in distress and assistance to them go hand in hand with lucid analysis and public awareness of the causes of humanitarian crises. The silence of the outcome document regarding disarmament and non-proliferation is worrying. Nuclear armament is simply devastating for people and for the environment; it destroys people's lives and the substratum of every decent economy. We therefore must insist upon nuclear non-proliferation. Likewise, we must insist on complete nuclear disarmament and a strengthened International Atomic Energy Agency verification and safeguards system. No effort should be spared to discourage not only the production of nuclear weapons but also any trade or exchange in such materials. Of course, a secure world will not just be free of the menace of war: it will be one where sustainable human development is also assured, through sound global governance. But, while global governance has a logic of its own, it lacks its own ethics, something which the world's nations must supply. We live in an interdependent but fragile society and, in many places, people's best interests are not served well. I should like to mention here but three specific areas of ethical challenge in this regard: solidarity with the poor, the promotion of the common good, and a sustainable environment. Small gains made in this last area remain under risk from, among other things, climate change, new diseases, the irresponsible destruction of forests, water pollution, depletion of fish stocks, the destruction of global commons such as the oceans, and so on. It is estimated that 15 out of 24 essential services provided by ecosystems are being used unsustainably. The enormity of today's environmental challenge obliges us to rethink our notions of interdependence, global cooperation and our common responsibility for the stewardship of the planet. Differences on how to address challenges should not stop agreement on the identification of specific environmental threats and common measures to tackle them. Another core principle needs to be set out in the form of the proper devolution of power to local levels to ensure greater effectiveness and accountability, known also as subsidiarity. The application of this principle would foster a genuine respect for the rights of nations and for the significance of culture, balancing particularism and universalism. Global governance also has to address the democracy deficit in order to assure globalization without marginalization. In this context, the United Nations becomes the projection of the hope for peace and well-being in the world. To fulfil this high calling, which is proper to the Organization's nature and function, will require clear characteristics of leadership, the courage of the Organization and those who are part of it and a common vision for its leaders, collaborators and interlocutors at every level, so that they may succeed in finding the right road to achieve the goals in view. 30 On the subject of the Human Rights Council, a reform that improves upon the present arrangements is to be welcomed. International law and its institutions are vital for the application and enforcement of human rights. Likewise, we should not lose sight of the importance that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights attaches to the incorporation of its principles into national law and to education in fostering a rights- respecting culture. Promotion and enforcement of human rights at the national level and constant attention to education will continue to be indispensable to allow those rights to flourish in the new system. The international community, the happy possessor of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights since 1948, appears, however, in the meantime to have forgotten that not only essential human rights but also human duties underpin the Declaration. These duties establish the framework in which our rights are contained, so that the latter are not simply exercised upon a whim. The reference to duties in the Universal Declaration reminds us that rights usually entail responsibilities; and that if we expect our own rights to be respected, we must respect the rights of others. Indeed, the Declaration's recognition of the interdependence of rights and duties was one of the key features that enabled it to win consensus from nations East and West, North and South. Today, when globalization has rendered us more interdependent than ever, a greater sense of universal human duties would benefit the cause of peace, because awareness of our mutual responsibility acknowledges duties as being essential to a social order which does not depend upon the will or the power of any individual or group. The question has resurfaced of how there can be universal rights in view of the diversity among cultures. Some maintain that all rights are culturally relative; others claim that universal rights are just instruments of a given cultural imperialism; and some believe the gulf between those two positions cannot be bridged. My delegation, however, shares the faith of the principal framers of the Universal Declaration, that certain values are so fundamental that they can find support in the moral and philosophical traditions of cultures. For that reason, such universal principles or basic human rights are undeniable. In their essential core they have to be universally recognized and must be operative erga omnes. To reject the idea that basic rights are relative, however, does not require one to reject a legitimate pluralism in their implementation. Quite the contrary, for pluralism is the only way to move beyond the sterile relativism-imperialism debate. The Holy See, on the basis of its own long experience in seeing how a common core of principles can take root and flourish in vastly different cultures, affirms the wisdom of the drafters of the Universal Declaration in this respect. The framework they fashioned is flexible enough to allow for differences in emphasis and implementation, but not so malleable as to permit any basic human right to be completely eclipsed or unnecessarily subordinated for the sake of other rights. Regrettably, the legitimately pluralist approach to basic rights is sometimes forgotten, but it must be retrieved if we are to avoid a top-down, homogenizing vision of human rights. In the wake of recent acts of terrible violence, calls have come from various quarters to promote greater understanding among religions, cultures and civilizations. The Holy See supports the initiatives in the field of interfaith cooperation and dialogue among civilizations, especially where, in the spirit of their reference to and reliance on God, they form consciences, foster common moral values and promote intercultural understanding and proactive commitments. Those tasks require continued evaluation with regard to motivation, policies, laws and institutions. It is the mission of civil and religious leaders to be a source of inspiration, support and guidance for all people of good will who strive towards sustainable peace. The Holy See also understands that there is a particular type of interreligious dialogue in which religious representatives and their constituents engage in discussion on the theological and spiritual tenets of their respective religions and exchange positive experiences with a view to promoting mutual understanding and respect among all. That type of dialogue does not appear to be part of the United Nations Charter and is therefore better left to religious experts and appropriate representatives of religions. Nevertheless, the United Nations can make a valid and important contribution to interfaith cooperation for peace and development. In concluding, I should like to add a word of acknowledgement of the important contribution that the United Nations staff makes to the Organization in its efforts to promote harmony and solidarity among peoples. Likewise, I should like to express once again to you, Sir, the best wishes and support of my delegation as you look ahead to an important and fruitful presidency of the General Assembly.Fiji extends its warm congratulations to the Organization on the sixtieth anniversary of its existence, and to the President, on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. We wish to express our confidence in his ability to guide our work during 2005 and 2006. We also extend our appreciation to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping of the Gabonese Republic, for his outstanding guidance of the difficult business of the fifty-ninth session. We also would like to place on record our appreciation to the Secretary-General for his tireless efforts and active role in bringing about an outcome document that should become the centrepiece that guides our efforts in the many months to come. Last week the leaders of our States or Governments adopted a resolution on the outcome of their deliberations. The outcome document (resolution 60/1), as anticipated, did not meet the expectations of everyone; rather, it contained those key elements essential to addressing the three pillar issues of security, human rights and development. What is required of us now is the commitment to support the implementation plan that will be drawn up to convert to action what have up to now been merely hopes and aspirations. We must also undertake to ensure that the assistance so rendered trickles right down to the poor, the hungry, the needy and the hopeless — those that require it the most. Far too often donations, funds and other forms of assistance are mired in the bureaucratic process and reduced by certain percentages, which are then passed off as so-called administrative charges. Fiji fully endorses the outcome document, and we are committed to implement those provisions that we as a developing nation are required to pursue for ourselves. The formulation and implementation of the Fiji national sustainable development strategy, outlining the visions of our leaders and targeting the aspirations and objectives of the summit outcome and the Millennium Development Goals, is paramount. We are in the process of reforming our public and financial sector and introducing limited changes in the private sector. Infrastructure development and improvement are a priority in light of our occupational health and safety standards. Marine legislation and regulations are being reviewed to ensure the safety at sea of both 30 passengers and vessels alike, as well as the protection of our maritime resources such as our continental shelf. The principle of restorative justice in pursuit of reconciliation, tolerance and unity is being widely discussed through a democratic process of consultations among the public before it is introduced in Parliament. Concerning the reform of the United Nations Secretariat, Fiji subscribes to the thinking that the Secretary-General should be empowered to enact the changes he believes best suit the Organization. We must all help to create a United Nations Organization that is more efficient and accountable. Accountability can be achieved by the establishment of the much discussed Oversight Committee, the modalities and working methodology of which have to include clear and transparent terms of reference and a well-balanced regional representation. The United Nations must function always with integrity and urgent concern for the needs of Member States. Above all we must help the United Nations to concentrate, as never before, on reducing the shameful gap between developed and developing countries. There should be no pause in United Nations endeavours to establish and maintain international peace, security and stability. The Secretary-General and his staff are to be commended for seeking peace agreements or in trying to prevent disputes from violently escalating. Peacekeepers from many troop- contributing countries deployed to conflict zones are working not only to provide security but also to disarm, demobilize and reintegrate former fighters, to permit the safe and sustainable return of refugees and to strengthen human rights and the rule of law. We commend the work of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq and the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) in trying to promote an inclusive, participatory and transparent political transition process in the country. Fiji is privileged to have our troops serving in UNAMI to help in the process. Fiji reaffirms its commitment to the United Nations. As always, we are for peace and this is the reason we have sent many of our soldiers and police officers to serve with United Nations peacekeeping and peacebuilding forces. Many of our servicemen have lost their lives, but we have accepted this ultimate sacrifice as our contribution to the unceasing global effort for finding peace and security. Further, while fully appreciating the principle of the standby force, we are at the same time concerned by the fact that those nations who are unable to properly equip their forces are mainly from developing countries and will therefore be marginalized should no arrangement be made to assist them in this area. If such assistance is not forthcoming, then peacekeeping will be confined to only a select few countries, mainly developed nations. Fiji acclaims the proposal for a Peacebuilding Commission. We will gladly share with the Commission our own experiences in reconstructing our country following the civil unrest that almost tore the nation apart in 2000. We ask reconsideration regarding the makeup of the Peacebuilding Commission, for while some of us have served in that sphere longer than others, the size of certain countries’ contribution gives them an advantage under the current modalities. We support the United Nations and other major groups’ initiatives at establishing partnerships with regional groups. The South Pacific region has constantly come together to address common problems that may beset its members. The Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands is a peacekeeping/peacebuilding mission that was mounted by the region. We would urge the United Nations to kindly assist in the humanitarian effort to bring this regional initiative on an even keel. Fiji is supportive of an enlarged Security Council membership that reflects current geopolitical realities. We maintain our support for the inclusion of India and Japan as permanent members under revised arrangements. We look forward to the moment when peace finally reigns in the Middle East, and we commend all those countries that are helping with that global cause. For our Pacific Ocean region, we would like to see the Korean people find just peace and lasting harmony. On the future of Taiwan, it is Fiji’s fervent hope that a resolution through dialogue, conducted in the true spirit of reconciliation and understanding and devoid of violence, can be found — one that is agreeable to all parties and that can last for years to come. This age of globalization is marked by the adoption of universal principles governing such 31 matters as democracy, human rights, trade and development. Fiji accepts those precepts; there is no question about that. But we also say that countries like ours, undergoing profound transition, should not be held to unrealistic standards. We need time to evolve, to adapt and to adhere. Members should not judge us by what might be appropriate to their standards, but measure us by the progress we are making towards the universal ideals and the level of our commitment to change. Fiji respects the principle of equality of human rights. We endorse the proposal for a Human Rights Council, directly accountable to the General Assembly, as an improvement upon the present arrangements. However, in order for the Council to be effective, its members have to be as widely representative as possible and should not be subjected to special reporting requirements. For Fiji, it is vitally important, as a factor for long-term stability, that the special interests of the indigenous people, including their right to ownership of their natural resources, is protected, and that a balance between the rights of individuals and communities is maintained. This has particular relevance for a multicultural society such as ours. In this regard, we strongly endorse the intention to bring to the General Assembly as soon as possible for adoption a final draft Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. To fund the Millennium Development Goals developing countries ought to have access to markets and a fair return on their exports. This fact is important for Fiji and other small vulnerable States; our very economic survival is dependent upon it. Unrealistic and inequitable world trade policies simply make it much harder for our countries to eliminate poverty. Fiji commends those developed States that are prepared to assist developing nations in cushioning the impact of World Trade Organization compliance. We pay particular tribute to the European Union for its willingness to assist and call on our European Union partners to provide adequate long-term support as it begins to reduce preferential processes for African, Caribbean and Pacific sugar. We also would like to express appreciation to our close neighbours Australia and New Zealand and our friends in Asia for their support in helping us get better access to their markets and assistance in other important areas of development. The HIV/AIDS pandemic is a global concern as it impacts on our ability to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. A cooperative effort by everyone remains the only way to control and eradicate the scourge. Action that integrates prevention, treatment and the medical and social vulnerability of infected persons should be our guiding principles. At the same time we should not minimize the seriousness of the ravages produced of other infectious diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis. Effort should also be directed at other scourges, such as extreme poverty and the plight of the disabled. We can no longer ignore the plight of women and children who through the years have been subjected to sexual exploitation and abuse. Last week, Fiji’s Prime Minister, Laisenia Qarase, signed the two Optional Protocols of the Convention on the Rights of the Child; the first on the involvement of children in armed conflict and the second on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. In addition Fiji strongly believes that the time is right for stronger action to be taken to address the issue of young women who are denied the right to sexual and reproductive health. We welcome the decision to hold a 2006 General Assembly High-level Dialogue on International Migration and Development. The amount of remittances from migrant workers has become a rich source of funds and has raised the standards of living of families, contributed substantially to the national economy and provided much needed employment to the job market. Fiji hopes that the High-level Dialogue will be the catalyst to enable countries to work in partnership and agree to a better understanding to improve the conditions of migrant workers. Terrorism is a blight on all our horizons. It respects no borders, and it is neither an acceptable nor an effective way to advance any cause. Insularity is no longer a cushion to protect islands which believe themselves to be further away from the mainstream of international activities. In trying to fulfil the terms and conditionalities established by the various terrorism conventions, more money that can hardly be spared has to be found to fulfil those obligations. In doing so, efforts to achieve Millennium Development Goals are stymied and in some instances halted. 32 In this regard, a global effort to combat terrorism has to be instituted to include training, funding, transparency in the exchange of information and intelligence, and a pledge to assist when needed. Fiji will always be in support of all efforts to reform the United Nations and its initiatives in the fields of security, human rights and development. Our efforts will be modest but commensurate with our abilities.I, too, congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. Sixty years ago, the United Nations rose out of the ashes of the Second World War. The creation of our Organization was the fulfilment of people's hopes for a better and safer future. Norway was honoured to provide the United Nations with its first Secretary- General, Trygve Lie. Last week, we saw agreement on a summit outcome document (resolution 60/1). The document falls short of our expectations. Still, it provides important direction on how to improve and strengthen the role of the United Nations in building peace and security and promoting human rights and development. In some areas, Member States made considerable progress; in others, better results should have been achieved. In particular, I had hoped for ó and worked for ó a substantial text on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction represents a fundamental threat. There is a growing risk of proliferation and of catastrophic terrorism. At the same time, we see a reluctance on the part of some to accept that all States must advance disarmament and non-proliferation. During the past week, I have repeatedly heard in the General Assembly that we are willing to solve common problems. Yet it has not been possible to reach any consensus on how to address these truly global threats. I can assure members that Norway will take up the challenge set out by the Secretary-General and will continue to seek consensus and concrete results. We will do that together with Australia, Chile, Indonesia, Romania, South Africa and the United Kingdom and with all those countries that supported our efforts. Further progress is also urgently needed to prevent the proliferation of small arms and light weapons. Norway welcomes the outcome document's call for implementation of the United Nations Programme of Action on Small Arms and Light Weapons. We would have liked, however, to see a stronger commitment to controlling international transfers of such weapons through legally binding agreements. The international community needs to cooperate in order to meet global challenges. We are faced with an array of new threats and challenges: I just spoke of the risk of proliferation; terrorism is another. The spread of new and infectious diseases is also a frightening prospect. Multilateralism is the answer. We must face all these threats together and reach agreement on how to meet them. The global arena must be continually reformed and adapted to make sure that we have a United Nations that is in the best possible shape. We cannot blame others if it does not function. As the Secretary-General said in his statement to the 11 summit, 'Whatever our differences, in our interdependent world, we stand or fall together' (A/60/PV.2, p. 5). Our greatest responsibility is to ensure that the strong protect the weak. Our greatest failure is when we, the Members of the United Nations, are unable to prevent atrocities against innocent civilians. For the first time, Member States have endorsed the principle of the ìresponsibility to protectî. That creates an important new basis for collective action in cases of genocide, crimes against humanity, ethnic cleansing and war crimes. We now have the tools to prevent another Srebrenica or another Rwanda. A greater consensus on collective action and early diplomatic response are needed to prevent violent conflicts. Addressing the needs of countries under stress is a demanding challenge for the United Nations; so is assisting countries suffering from conflict and in transition from war to peace. The peace process that Norway is facilitating between the Government of Sri Lanka and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam has benefited from United Nations support. The Organization's role in providing humanitarian and development assistance to all areas of Sri Lanka has been indispensable. I therefore welcome the initiative to establish a Peacebuilding Commission to marshal resources, give advice and propose comprehensive strategies for peacebuilding and post-conflict recovery. The situation in the Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and other conflict-afflicted areas clearly demonstrates the need for a Peacebuilding Commission. As long as the Security Council remains actively seized of a matter, the Peacebuilding Commission should provide advice to the Council. Norway will contribute $15 million to the Peacebuilding Fund. The role and the needs of women should be duly reflected in the establishment of a Peacebuilding Commission. The Commission should contribute to the follow-up of the binding commitments set out in Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) on women and peace and security. While supporting the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission, Norway places great emphasis on the need to maintain and strengthen the activity of the Secretary-General to take initiatives through his good offices. As we convene here in New York, an estimated 10 million people are facing severe food shortages in Southern Africa. According to the Secretary-General, the chronic state of emergency in the region is caused by a combination of HIV/AIDS, food insecurity and a weakened capacity for governance. During recent months, there has also been a severe drought in Niger and in parts of the Sahel region. The response capacity of the United Nations is in need of reform. That means improving the speed, equity and predictability of humanitarian response. An upgraded and expanded Central Emergency Response Fund is an important step in the right direction; so is improved coordination at the field level, including the Humanitarian Coordinator system. The General Assembly must now take the decisions necessary for the new Fund to become operational as early as possible. Norway has pledged $15 million to the Fund, and we stand ready to assist in putting in place the necessary organizational framework. The United Nations is making a significant contribution to development. The universal endorsement of the Millennium Development Goals and the renewed commitment to achieving them by 2015 are key results of the summit; so are the strengthened commitments concerning increased official development assistance (ODA) and debt relief made during the preparations leading up to the summit, particularly by the European Union and the Group of Eight. The world community must now make sure that promises are followed by payments and that the focus on Africa remains strong. Norway will do its part by increasing its ODA contributions to Africa for 2006 by $150 million. International trade is a prerequisite for economic growth and development. Norway is committed to the further development of a rule-based and fair multilateral trading system. The ongoing World Trade Organization negotiations are approaching a crucial crossroads in Hong Kong in December. We must redouble our efforts to achieve the fullest possible realization of the Doha work programme in order to successfully complete the Doha development round in 2006. Particular attention must be paid to the needs and interests of developing countries. No cause can justify acts of terror. The United Nations should have a central role in leading and coordinating the international fight against terrorism. A 12 broad-based strategy is necessary to counter this threat, as recommended by the Secretary-General. The fight against terrorism must be based on the rule of law. The role of the United Nations is essential, because it can provide the legal instruments and frameworks we need. I encourage all States to sign, ratify and implement the 13 United Nations conventions related to terrorism. Norway strongly supports the efforts to conclude a comprehensive United Nations convention on international terrorism. Terrorism must be fought by a broad range of means, including military and legal means. Other threats to peace and stability must also be addressed, such as poverty and unemployment, lack of social and political rights, absence of the rule of law and lack of access to education. The United Nations has a vital role to play in all those areas. It has more experience on those issues than any other organization and possesses the most suitable tools to address them. Defending human rights is a principal universal objective. When human rights defenders are silenced, violations of human rights go unnoticed, unexposed and unopposed. The issue of individuals and groups subject to human rights violations should be put firmly on the agenda of all countries. I call for members' continued support for a draft resolution to that end. It is vital that we assign human rights their rightful place as a fundamental pillar of the United Nations. Our goal in the coming months must be to bridge the gap between expectations for credible United Nations action in the field of human rights and the capacities of the Organization. We must take the following steps. We must create a new standing human rights body as soon as possible, preferably as a principal organ of the United Nations. It must focus on both implementation and capacity-building. It must also be able to deal swiftly with human rights violations worldwide in a credible and effective manner. The strengths and best practices of the Commission on Human Rights must be retained and its weaknesses left behind. And we must strengthen the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights by respecting, in the Fifth Committee, the decision of the summit to double the regular budget resources of the Office. There is a need for stronger executive leadership and thorough administrative reform of the Organization. Corruption, mismanagement and sexual exploitation and abuse are examples of conduct that cannot be tolerated. We have decided to make the Office of Internal Oversight Services more independent. The Office's capacity to carry out audits and investigations will be significantly strengthened. It is necessary to further strengthen the accountability of the Secretariat and improve management performance, as well as reinforce ethical conduct. Responsibility for many of the weaknesses in the United Nations system, however, lies with the Member States themselves. We need a more relevant General Assembly as the chief policymaking body of the Organization. That will require strategic leadership on the part of Member States. The Secretary-General, as the chief administrative officer, must be granted sufficient authority and flexibility to carry out his duties. In order to strengthen the Organization's capacity to ensure that mandates are fulfilled, we need to provide the necessary resources. In order to maintain an efficient organization, we need to review existing mandates and revoke those that are no longer relevant. The management reform process provides a golden opportunity to increase the recruitment of women at all levels of the United Nations. Good governance in a modern organization requires contributions from women on an equal footing with men. Some have called the results of the summit just another step along the way. In my view, many important steps were taken. Now it is up to the General Assembly to follow up. I promise that Norway will do its part. We will continue to work for reforms. The United Nations system must become more effective in securing global peace and security, combating poverty and promoting human rights. In the end, it is we, the Member States, who are responsible for making that a reality.We can safely claim that the United Nations summit that has just been concluded will have far-reaching implications for our Organization. Its outcome has prepared the ground for the most radical reform in the entire history of the United Nations. An effective response by the family of nations to global challenges and threats is the ultimate goal of these reforms. Kazakhstan expresses its confidence that the United Nations, as a universal Organization to which there is no alternative, is in a position to achieve that goal. As a matter of principle, Kazakhstan supports closer interdependence among the three main pillars of the contemporary world: development, freedom and peace. Yet the issues of development should continue to be the focus of attention of the world community. The Millennium Development Goals can be achieved only through the active engagement of the entire international community on the basis of partnership and cooperation. Kazakhstan is committed to its undertakings with regard to the timely and effective attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. The recently published report on Kazakhstan’s progress in implementing the Millennium Development Goals report in Kazakhstan reveals that as a result of successful reforms my country is close to reaching important targets in this area. Today Kazakhstan is confidently leading other post-Soviet States in all macroeconomic indicators. The Government of Kazakhstan is implementing a large-scale programme to ensure further development in the social field. Human development is the focus of all these efforts. Kazakhstan is reaching a new level in the area of sustainable development. The national Government is paying priority attention to poverty, women’s issues, employment, financial aid from the State to poor families, the development of small and medium-sized businesses, and large-scale educational, health and environmental programmes. We commend the United Nations and its specialized agencies for their efforts to assist our country in addressing the effects of environmental disasters in the area of the Aral Sea and in the Semipalatinsk region. The problems facing those regions are global in their scope as the environmental situation there has negative effects on the habitat and livelihood of people all over the world. We urge the international community to be involved actively. In particular we ask it at this session of the General Assembly to support a draft resolution to be sponsored by Kazakhstan on the problems of the Semipalatinsk region. International trade is an important factor for development. Accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) is a priority for Kazakhstan. We consider further liberalization of trade and WTO membership as key elements of our country’s general development strategy. In 2003 Kazakhstan hosted the International Ministerial Conference on Transit Transport Cooperation. We attach great importance to  16 05-51226 that forum and believe that the special needs of landlocked developing countries should be fully taken into account in accordance with the decisions and recommendations emanating from the Almaty Programme of Action. The integration of Kazakhstan and other Central Asian States into the world economy is of exceptional importance both for the social and economic development of our region and for the world economy in general. Our country is committed to comprehensive cooperation with the other States of Central Asia. That is our consistent policy, unswayed by political exigencies. Since the early years of its independence, Kazakhstan has been pursuing a principled policy of demilitarization and nuclear disarmament. We call for the universalization of international instruments in that area. This year we marked the tenth anniversary of the removal from the territory of Kazakhstan of all nuclear devices left over from the former Soviet Union. Kazakhstan has set a commendable example by voluntarily eliminating its nuclear arsenal, the fourth largest in the world, and shutting down the Semipalatinsk nuclear testing ground, the site of nearly 500 nuclear explosions. The global security system is in serious crisis today. The 2005 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) failed to set up a balanced and comprehensive mechanism that would facilitate the strengthening of the international non-proliferation regime and the complete elimination of nuclear weapons. Even more disturbing is the lack of clear recommendations on non-proliferation and disarmament in the outcome document of the summit (resolution 60/1). We believe that it is necessary to put in place a mechanism for international sanctions against States that violate both the NPT Treaty and the non-proliferation regime in general. Otherwise we will not be able to prevent the continuous spread of nuclear weapons around the world. Our country calls for the establishment and enhancement of controls over nuclear, chemical and biological materials and their production technologies in order to prevent terrorists from getting hold of deadly weapons. Kazakhstan recognizes the special role of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). All of our country’s nuclear activities are being carried out in accordance with its standards and under its control. It is time to establish similar effective bodies within the framework of the international Conventions on chemical and biological weapons. The international community should not relax efforts to combat illegal trafficking in conventional arms. According to the United Nations, some 500 million small arms and light weapons are in circulation all over the world. We share the view of the Secretary- General, who has compared small arms to weapons of mass destruction, because, year after year, they kill hundreds of thousands of people all over the world, thus fostering a culture of violence and terror and trampling on human rights. Kazakhstan categorically condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and considers it to be the most dangerous threat in today’s world. We are convinced that economic and social underdevelopment, poverty and misery breed international terrorism. That is why speedy economic advancement of poor countries is a priority task. Yet the ideology of terrorism is a factor of no lesser importance. It is extremely dangerous that young people are increasingly being sucked into the ideological orbit of international terrorism. Fighting terrorism is a mission of paramount importance. For that reason, close attention should be paid to the efforts to prevent recruitment for terrorist operations. In that context, the international community must urgently take practical steps to curb the ongoing drug trafficking across Central Asia. We cannot but be seriously concerned by the situation in Afghanistan. Kazakhstan appreciates cooperation with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. Enhanced regional cooperation in the struggle against international terrorism is also important. The Shanghai Cooperation Organization sets a positive example in that regard. Kazakhstan believes that international cooperation in fighting terrorism should be pursued in strict compliance with the norms of international law. We support further universalization and enhancement of anti-terrorist treaty mechanisms. The signing by Kazakhstan of the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism is a practical reaffirmation of that position. We are looking forward to the early completion of a comprehensive convention 05-51226 17 against international terrorism. At the same time, joint practical actions to curb that evil represent a key element of the international community’s counter- terrorism activities. International peacekeeping operations conducted under the umbrella of the United Nations remain an effective tool to prevent and settle crises and to ensure global and regional stability. The lack of an effective and comprehensive mechanism to address the root causes of destructive conflicts is a serious problem of peacekeeping. Preventive action and post-conflict peacebuilding constitute important elements of a comprehensive response by the United Nations to emerging crisis situations. For Kazakhstan, the proposed Peacebuilding Commission is a step in the right direction. As its main mission it should strive to avert the recurrence of situations in which the lack of a peacebuilding strategy results in the escalation of internal conflicts and ultimately in States further losing their capacity to perform their sovereign functions in an effective and responsible way. Our country is actively working on issues related to the Conference on Interaction and Confidence- building Measures in Asia (CICA), which we treat as an important and useful forum for the exchange of views on security issues in the Asian region. It is encouraging to see that the CICA process is gaining momentum and has already become an important factor in today’s international relations. Kazakhstan believes that the rule of law should play a leading role in international affairs today. Ignoring this principle is one of the main threats to peace and security. Continuing its consistent efforts to accede to international treaties concluded within the framework of the United Nations and to implement their provisions, Kazakhstan intends to ensure strict compliance with the rule of law at both national and international levels. We closely link our country’s development to building a democratic society based on respect for the rights and freedoms of every individual. Kazakhstan supports the strengthening of democratic institutions and the human rights mechanisms of the United Nations designed to promote the rights and freedoms of citizens and to ensure compliance with the principles of non-interference and the sovereign equality of States. Kazakhstan supports efforts to carry out a comprehensive reform of the United Nations encompassing all its principal organs. We strongly believe that priority attention should be paid to the General Assembly as the main deliberative, decision- making and representative body of the Organization. The sensitive issue of reform of the Security Council should be resolved on the basis of broad international agreement. We are convinced that the enlargement of the Security Council in accordance with the principle of equitable geographical representation and taking into account the contribution of States concerned towards the development of the world economy and global security would serve the interests of many States and would facilitate comprehensive reform of the United Nations. The United Nations needs to improve collaboration with regional organizations that make an important contribution to the collective security system. Kazakhstan has repeatedly proposed the creation of a standing body under the Secretary- General that would coordinate cooperation between regional arrangements. In this context we would welcome the establishment of a standing committee on regional organizations. We in Kazakhstan are convinced that in the twenty-first century the consolidation of peace and security is increasingly dependent on the development of dialogue and interaction between peoples of differing faces, cultures and civilizations. An interfaith dialogue is an integral part of the effort to promote the culture of peace and dialogue between civilizations and to advance the common values reflected in the Millennium Declaration. In this context, Kazakhstan is grateful to the international community for its support of our country’s actions to promote an interfaith dialogue. The General Assembly has recognized Kazakhstan’s positive role in this area through the adoption of a resolution. As demonstrated over the past 60 years, the United Nations was, still is, and I am sure will continue to be a link between our countries and peoples. The United Nations will not allow our planet to slide into chaos and unrest. It is within our power to strengthen this link. Kazakhstan expresses confidence that the agreements reflected in the outcome document of the historic summit will serve the cause of bringing nations together in the face of existing challenges and threats, ensuring the security, welfare and dignity of our  18 05-51226 peoples, and strengthening the Organization itself for the sake of its noble goals. My delegation associates itself with the compliments extended to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of this session and to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping of Gabon. The United Nations was born 60 years ago when the brutality of war impressed itself on all as far 12 beyond human comprehension and tolerance. The Organization became a source of hope, founded as it was on the inalienable, interlinked and mutually interdependent pillars of development, human rights and security. Member States of this Organization have increasingly yearned for its reform in order to make it more democratic and responsive to the needs of all nations, rich and poor, big and small, strong and weak. We should recall that the last reform of the United Nations was in 1963, a good four decades ago. Against this background, my delegation pays tribute to the Secretary-General for his report entitled “In larger freedom: towards development, security and human rights for all” (A/59/2005). That report formed the basis for discussions by Member States as they prepared for the five-year review of the Millennium Declaration and for this sixtieth session of the General Assembly. It raises critical issues regarding the reform of this world body to enable it to meet the challenges and threats of the twenty-first century — a daunting task indeed. However, we have noted with regret that some Member States have relegated to the back burner critical issues of development, giving priority instead to security issues, particularly the reform of the Security Council. As a result of this trend, we foresee an emerging, untenable and, indeed, unwarranted situation with the potential to divide regions and/or continents and to adversely affect cordial relations between States. In order to move in unison, the international community should strive to advance the global development, human rights and security agendas simultaneously. All agree that the HIV and AIDS pandemic has emerged as a major threat to development, reversing, as it does, all the gains that have been made so far. We all also agree that the ravages of extreme poverty continue to haunt us. Needless to say, extreme poverty constitutes a violation of human dignity. Armed conflicts also hamper development. Africa presents a classical example of how those menaces compromise not only peace and security, but also development, thus militating against respect for human rights. Indeed, it is no coincidence that development has been one of the key objectives of most, if not all, major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic, social and related fields. Hence, my delegation welcomes the efforts of those donor countries that have achieved the 0.7 per cent target of gross national income as official development assistance (ODA), with 0.2 per cent of gross national income for the least developed countries. We also welcome initiatives by some countries to set up timetables for fulfilling their ODA targets. However, we reiterate our appeal that developed countries abide by their commitments to help developing countries in all the relevant areas. They have to accelerate and increase the flows of ODA and foreign direct investment. They also have to adopt appropriate measures to fully integrate small and vulnerable economies into the multilateral trading system, cancel debt, transfer technology, render financial and technical assistance and provide capacity-building programmes for developing countries. On this auspicious occasion, my delegation expresses sincere appreciation for all initiatives recently taken to address the needs of developing countries, especially the debt cancellation extended by the G-8 countries to highly indebted poor countries. However, we appeal for debt cancellation for all least developed countries in order to enable them to redirect their meagre resources to national development programmes. It is an irrefutable fact that a substantial percentage of the national budgets of least developed countries that do not fall within the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative category is consumed by servicing their debts. Lesotho supports the launching of a series of “quick wins”, as recommended by the Secretary- General in his report, as this would go a long way towards broadening commitment to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and promoting economic growth in many developing countries. In our view, the criteria for the selection of countries for the implementation of the “quick wins” should be fair and transparent. Terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction to non-State actors, the existence of nuclear weapons, and armed conflict top the list of global security issues. There is, therefore, an urgent need to conclude a comprehensive convention on terrorism. My delegation hopes that the General Assembly will soon initiate negotiations on an international instrument to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction to non-State actors. We regret the fact 13 that the 2005 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) was not able to reach consensus. However, we wish to emphasize the need for all States parties to adhere to the three pillars of the Treaty — namely, disarmament, non-proliferation and peaceful uses of nuclear energy. We also wish to encourage the nuclear- weapon States that have not yet ratified or acceded to the NPT and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty to become parties to those important treaties. The notorious use of small arms and light weapons in armed conflicts is well documented. Lesotho therefore regrets the inability on the part of the Open-ended Working Group on small arms to adopt a legally binding document. We also attach great importance to the issue of prevention of internal armed conflicts by the international community. While we support the moral obligation behind the proposed new concept of the “responsibility to protect”, we suggest that the issue should be subjected to further consideration by Member States, guided by the fundamental principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter. Needless to say, the sanctity of Article 51 of the Charter should be preserved. The Kingdom of Lesotho considers it the responsibility of the international community, with the United Nations playing the central role, to put in place effective measures aimed at preventing genocide, ethnic cleansing and the atrocities perpetrated on women and children caught up in armed conflict. Consequently, my delegation considers the enhanced role of the major organs of the United Nations, particularly the General Assembly, to be of paramount importance. One of the major constraints of the United Nations is that it lacks a mechanism designed to avoid State collapse and the slide into war, or to assist countries in their transition from war to peace. It is within this context that Lesotho supports the proposed establishment of a Peacebuilding Commission. In the area of human rights, we support the elevation of the Commission on Human Rights to a Human Rights Council, a body that would be apolitical and insist on the protection both of civil and political rights and of economic, social and cultural rights. For my delegation, the flaws of the Commission lay mostly in its focus and not necessarily in its size. It is in this twenty-first century that peace, security, the right to self-determination, respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms must be guaranteed as the norm rather than the exception. Hence, our call for the right to self-determination of the Palestinian people and complete withdrawal from their occupied territories, the independence of the Saharawi people, the lifting of the unilateral economic embargo against the people of Cuba and the end to armed conflicts, particularly in Africa. These matters must be addressed and resolved urgently, comprehensively and honestly, without fear or favour, and without malice to anybody.I should like at the outset to sincerely congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at the present session. That election is a sign of confidence in your qualities as a statesman and a recognition of your country, Sweden, which reminds us of its illustrious son Dag Hammarskjld, the second Secretary-General of the Organization, who sacrificed his life for the cause of humanity. I should also like to express to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, Minister of State, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Gabonese Republic, our heartfelt congratulations on the skill and wisdom with which he guided the work of the fifty-ninth session and successfully led the difficult negotiations that produced the document recently adopted at the World Summit (resolution 60/1). Finally, we commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his courageous and tireless initiatives to renew and revitalize the United Nations system. The sixtieth session of the General Assembly is taking place in an international situation characterized not only by recurrent wars but also by the resurgence of terrorist acts that spare no region in the world and by natural disasters that have plunged many families into mourning. We wish to express to the Government and the people of the United States of America our sincerest condolences following Hurricane Katrina. Combating terrorism, like preserving our environment, calls for greater solidarity. The United Nations, whose sixtieth anniversary we are celebrating, remains the essential tool for expressing that solidarity. It is only the United Nations that will enable us to face the formidable challenges of the future. The Congo therefore welcomes the adoption of the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting, which sets out the main course of action to be taken. The outcome document gives us reasons for hope about ways in which to meet the challenges facing our world. At the same time, it gives rise to some questions. The Congo welcomes the clear reaffirmation by all heads of State or Government of their commitment to continue to discuss and seek solutions to the worldís main concerns: issues of development, collective peace and security, human rights and the rule of law, and strengthening the United Nations. We welcome the consensus regarding the need to create a Peacebuilding Commission and a Human Rights Council. A Human Rights Council would, together with the International Criminal Court, enhance the effectiveness of mechanisms to promote and defend human rights. Institutional reform of the United Nations - encompassing, of course, all its principal organs, including the General Assembly, the Security Council, the Economic and Social Council and the Secretariat - like reform of the internal management of our Organization, is both a political and a moral imperative that would enable the United Nations to move with the times and to prepare more effectively to face the coming decades. The Congo regrets, however, that the serious issue of disarmament was not even mentioned in the outcome document because of a lack of consensus, even though nuclear weapons, weapons of mass destruction and the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons are the greatest threats to humanity. The Congo reaffirms its full support for the objective of general and complete disarmament and the total elimination of weapons of mass destruction. Africa has always been a source of concern for the United Nations, and the Security Council with good reason spends most of its time on Africa. We have reason to be pleased that some degree of progress has been made in several countries. In Burundi, we welcome the efforts of the international community, which a month ago led to the successful completion of the electoral process in that country. We welcome the Central African Republicís return to constitutional order after several years of crisis and instability. These countries deserve increased support from the international community so as to consolidate situations that are still fragile. 13 In the Sudan, we welcome the reconciliation between the Sudan People's Liberation Movement (SPLM), the central Government and the new Government of national unity, which has just been established. But the reconciliation between the north and the south in Sudan should not lead us to forget the tragedy that has for two years been affecting another segment of the population in the west of the country, namely, Darfur. We call for greater mobilization on the part of the international community in support of the African Union's efforts to bring an immediate end to that political and humanitarian crisis. In Cote d'Ivoire, because of the differences between the parties to the conflict and despite the tireless efforts on the part of the United Nations and the African Union, the holding of elections, initially set for October 2005, has now been brought into question. We urge our Ivorian brothers to rise above their differences in the higher interest of their country and of peace and stability in the subregion. Peace and stability in the Democratic Republic of the Congo determine the stability and development of the whole of Central Africa and the Great Lakes region. We applaud the efforts by the international community in support of the electoral process leading to a successful transition in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Our subregion was very much involved in those efforts. As current chairman of the Economic Community of Central African States, the President of the Republic of the Congo, Mr. Denis Sassou-Nguesso, was assigned by his peers, following the twelfth Conference of Heads of State and Government held in June 2005 at Brazzaville, the task of promoting successful transition. Pursuant to that mandate, together with my colleagues from Angola, Gabon and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, we met with the international partners of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, namely Belgium, the European Union and, of course, the United Nations. Concerning the Great Lakes region, the first summit meeting of the International Conference on the Great Lakes, which was held in November 2004 at Dar es Salaam, aroused great hopes for a return to peace, stability and development in that subregion. In a few months, the second summit meeting of the International Conference will be held at Nairobi and will adopt a security, stability and development pact, under which our countries intend to implement action programmes and protocols in order to make a reality of their desire for a shared future of peace, security and development. The International Conference on the Great Lakes Region is a unique experience of regional peacebuilding. We very much hope that this subregion will be the first to implement the reforms proposed by the Secretary-General concerning peacebuilding. We would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the appeal made by the President of the Republic of the Congo to the international community in general and to the development partners in particular to make the Great Lakes region a special development area. Nine of the eleven countries that make up our subregion of Central Africa are now in a post-conflict situation. This subject was discussed at length at the twenty-third meeting of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, which was held at Brazzaville from 29 August to 2 September 2005. We welcome the existence and work of that committee, of which my country is now chair, and at the same time we ask the United Nations to act on the outcome of the committeeís multidisciplinary mission to Central Africa in June 2003. In the Middle East, notwithstanding the persistence of the Israel-Palestine conflict, we welcome and encourage the efforts made over the past several months by the Prime Minister of Israel, Mr. Ariel Sharon, and the President of the Palestinian Authority, Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, which reflect a common desire to bring about a fair and lasting solution. Consolidation of peace, restoration of macroeconomic balances and combating pandemics such as HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases, these are the top priorities of my Government. Our Government intends to expand its activities to deal with other scourges. We organized in Brazzaville in June 2005 a conference on trypanosomiasis, during which a resolution declaring trypanosomiasis the number-one priority for public health, like HIV/AIDS and malaria, was adopted. We request that special attention be given to this disease. Concerned about preserving the environment, the Congo and other countries of the subregion entered 14 into a partnership agreement with the international community in 2002 within the framework of the Congo River Basin Initiative. The second summit meeting of heads of State and Government on conservation and sustainable management of forest ecosystems in Central Africa was held at Brazzaville in February 2005, and adopted a long-term strategy for the preservation of the forest, fauna and biodiversity in the greater Congo basin. I wish to thank the European Union, the United States of America, France and Germany for their support of this initiative. In conclusion, I wish to thank the African Group for having endorsed the candidacy of the Congo for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for 2006 to 2007. I would like to reassure you that we are fully determined to work resolutely for peace, freedom and justice throughout the world.I am particularly pleased to express to you, Sir, Cameroon’s heartfelt congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I wish you every success in carrying out your noble mandate and assure you of my delegation’s full cooperation. I pay a warm tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, Minister of State and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Cooperation and Francophonie of the Gabonese Republic. His great talent, consummate negotiating skill and competence contributed decisively to the success of the work of the fifty-ninth session. To the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, I once again express Cameroon’s full appreciation for his tireless efforts and dedication in the service of the Organization and its ideals. At your wise suggestion, Mr. President, the main theme of our debate is the implementation and follow- up of the outcome document (resolution 60/1) of the High-level Plenary Meeting of the General Assembly. That reflects the great importance of this debate — importance clearly shown by the strong participation in it. My country is pleased to add its voice to those of the representatives of 184 other countries, who have already spoken during this exercise. Cameroon fully supports the outcome document adopted at the end of that historic summit. Some would have preferred that it be stronger, others that it be more proactive. Cameroon believes it is a balanced and realistic document with regard to all the major global concerns now considered to be priorities. Furthermore, it is a document that reflects a new consensus on the role of the United Nations and its place in today’s international system. Our heads of State or Government took stock of the main challenges of our time and of the priority actions that we must take together to build a genuine global partnership for development and to ensure lasting collective peace and security. They also set out guidelines to be followed over the next decade to complete the whole United Nations renewal process and the effective achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The time has come to move from words to action. Indeed, it is only by implementing those commitments that we can measure their value, force and relevance. It is indisputable that the world has made considerable progress in implementing some of the MDGs. But there is another undeniable fact that is far less encouraging: the situation in Africa. Africa is the world’s only region that, with 10 years until the deadline, is alarmingly behind in implementing the MDGs. If it does not receive substantial external assistance very soon, most of the Goals will not be attained by 2015. Most of them may remain a mirage for a long time. We are aware that the current economic growth rate in our countries averages approximately 3 per cent . That is not sufficient to create the macroeconomic conditions necessary to achieve the MDGs. Today — particularly in sub-Saharan Africa — without large- scale job creation, revenue creation, a massive inflow of private capital or official development assistance, an effective global and sustainable solution to the nagging issue of debt, and equitable participation in world trade, our efforts will be doomed to failure. For their part, the Governments of African countries, who have the primary responsibility for their own development, are implementing national poverty 34 reduction strategies in keeping with the need to achieve the MDGs. With specific regard to Cameroon, the Government is tackling that with determination. Furthermore, the implementation of its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper is supported by the donor community. My country has begun to review its strategy to ensure that it is fully in line with the Millennium Development Goals. It is also implementing, with the same determination, its national programme of governance. Thus, the Government of Cameroon has stepped up its efforts to combat corruption and has committed itself to a more transparent and effective management of public finances. My country would have liked to see more ambitious and courageous commitments adopted together with a specific timetable for the development of Africa. Nevertheless, if the commitments made by world leaders in the outcome document are speedily implemented, Africa would make considerable progress in implementing most of the Millennium Development Goals and could even — depending on the adequate mobilization of national and external resources and the political will to take action — achieve all those goals by the agreed date. During a recent crisis, the United Nations was nearly shaken to its very foundations. During those events, our sometimes differing views about our system of peace and collective security became openly apparent. Fortunately, given the need to overcome all the global threats that weigh on our collective security, the summit reached a healthy consensus on the essential nature of joint actions that we need to take for the peaceful settlement of disputes, counteracting terrorism and the maintenance and consolidation of peace. Nonetheless, the process of revitalizing the Organization will remain incomplete until we are able to agree on the enlargement of the Security Council. May I recall that, as the President of Cameroon, His Excellence Mr. Paul Biya, declared on 14 September, Cameroon remains faithful to the African position on reform of the Security Council. This reform is necessary and must take place soon, bringing nations together rather than dividing them. This is the firm conviction of Cameroon, and my country will continue, however long it takes, to work with other States to overcome our differences and forge a solid consensus in order to achieve this very important reform. Recourse to law for the peaceful settlement of disputes has, necessarily, as a corollary, the obligation to implement fully, willingly and in good faith the decisions of the International Court of Justice. This is how we understand the reference made in the outcome document concerning “the obligation of States to settle their disputes by peaceful means in accordance with Chapter VI of the Charter, including, when appropriate, by the use of the International Court of Justice” (resolution 60/1, para. 73). Implementation of a decision of a court through positive negotiations is based first and foremost on a peaceful course of action, specifically on the basis of a deep commitment to the values and principles enshrined in the Charter. In no case may that be interpreted as an open possibility to renounce even partially the fundamental elements of that decision. Very much to the contrary. The outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting allows for coordinating the activities of the principal bodies of the Organization within the framework of their mandate under the Charter for the prevention of armed conflicts and settlement of disputes. Cameroon therefore believes it desirable that we should find ways to ensure that Member States, through the Security Council and in the General Assembly, are informed formally of the status of implementation of judgements handed down by the International Court of Justice, as they are of the Court’s annual activities. The Secretary-General could thus inform the Security Council regularly and in detail and report to Member States as is done in his report to the General Assembly on the activities of the Organization. Good practices in this area would take root and inspire us all. In that way, we would be able to identify potential sources of conflict at a very early stage through difficulties identified and to make timely recommendations to prevent them. Cameroon, which looks forward to the rapid creation of the Peacebuilding Commission and the Human Rights Council, counts on your wisdom to ensure that the negotiating process that will lead to their creation will be open, transparent and inclusive. 35 During the present session, which coincides with the Organization’s sixtieth anniversary, we should be inspired by the visionary dynamism provided by the heads of State and Government. This is a new opportunity, perhaps one of the best opportunities, along with the Millennium Summit, to make a decisive contribution to improving the human condition and achieving an ideal world where all women, men and children live free from fear, hunger and disease. It is our responsibility here and now to fulfil the generous promises made by our leaders to humanity a week ago. Let us do so without making excuses, without seeking loopholes. Let us do it now.Sixty years ago, Prime Minister Peter Fraser of New Zealand told representatives to the San Francisco Conference that its sole aim should be “the setting up of a world organization that will really work, and that will be the background for an orderly progress towards security, prosperity and happiness for all the people of all nations”. The new organization would only work, he said, if its members were determined to stand by their commitments and principles. Today the essential concept of the United Nations remains robust. We can be justly proud of its achievements in many areas including humanitarian assistance, development and peacekeeping. But we have collectively underperformed in others, sometimes with tragic results. Our task this sixtieth anniversary is twofold: first, to recommit ourselves as Member States to the enduring vision and values of the Charter and, 19 secondly, to retool the United Nations machinery to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. The Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1) provides the blueprint for the way forward. New Zealand would have liked more progress in a number of areas, such as more detailed agreement on the establishment of the Human Rights Council and more authority to the Secretary-General to manage resources in return for greater accountability. We deeply regret the failure to endorse further disarmament and non-proliferation measures. But we are encouraged by the many significant advances, including recognition of the need for more and better aid, establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission, a doubling of resources for the Office of the Commissioner for Human Rights and the recognition of our shared “responsibility to protect”. We have as our theme for the General Assembly implementation of our summit undertakings. We share accountability for getting the job done. I shall confine my comments here to the results of the summit. New Zealand is pleased with the Summit Outcome as it relates to development. It represents a shared commitment by all Member States to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and recognizes the important partnership between developed and developing countries in the effective use of aid. This year New Zealand has increased its development assistance by 23 per cent. Our official development assistance (ODA) programme has a focus on poverty elimination, with a core, but not exclusive, focus on the Pacific. We strive to address aid effectiveness, the particular problems faced by small island developing States, HIV/AIDS, the empowerment of women, sexual and reproductive health and rights, education for all, sustainable development and trade access. On trade, we look forward to an ambitious outcome across all aspects of the Doha Development Agenda, including in agriculture, improved market access, the elimination of export subsidies and substantial reductions in trade distorting domestic support. Improving the coherence of trade policies and development initiatives remains a critical element in achieving the MDGs. New Zealand welcomes the decision to establish a Peacebuilding Commission to help break the cycle of conflict by better coordinating long-term international recovery efforts and ensuring sustained political attention to those who need it. We must now move swiftly to get the Commission up and running by December this year. We look to the General Assembly President to take a lead in holding consultations to achieve this. The core elements of the framework have already been discussed at length and in detail. With good will and determination, we can surely arrive at agreement within the next few weeks on a package. This should ensure balanced membership and flexible reporting arrangements. We would caution against raising the bar for assistance too high, and we hope that all States in need of help will be able to approach the Commission. Our leaders have spoken with one voice and unequivocally to condemn all forms of terrorism. We must build on this and honour our undertaking to conclude negotiations on the comprehensive convention on international terrorism at this session. New Zealand will continue to work closely with our friends in the Pacific region to improve our collective abilities to identify, prevent or respond to terrorist threats. Consolidating reporting requirements created by Security Council resolutions would, we believe, be one step towards enhancing the counter-terrorism programme of the United Nations. We think it very important that Member States should now support the Secretary-General’s counter-terrorism strategy. One of the most far-reaching achievements of the summit, as many countries have acknowledged, is our collective acceptance that there is a responsibility to protect populations from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. We must now all be prepared to assist the United Nations in establishing the early warning capability referred to in our outcome document. It is vital that, when the need arises, we give effect to our resolve and follow the principles we have agreed upon. In this context, New Zealand wishes to reaffirm its commitment to ending impunity for those responsible for the most serious crimes of concern to the international community. Adoption of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court was an historic moment for the United Nations and one that demonstrated the breadth and depth of political will to end impunity and to secure the rule of law. 20 The absence of any reference to a commitment to end impunity or of any acknowledgement of the International Criminal Court’s central contribution to this goal is one of several telling silences in our summit outcome. We are particularly pleased that leaders have recognized the need to conclude, during this session, negotiations on the draft protocol to the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel. This will be a major priority for New Zealand. We call on all Member States to contribute constructively to this process, so that we can reach agreement on a protocol and demonstrate our full support for the work of United Nations personnel in the field. New Zealand welcomes the emphasis on human rights in the outcome document. That the budget of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights is to be doubled and her Office strengthened is an overdue recognition of the gap between expectations of delivery and resourcing. While progress has been made through the summit decision to establish a Human Rights Council, we regret that the opportunity was lost to reach agreement on details of the Council’s mandate and operation, despite the support of a great majority of Members for such a package. A small minority cannot be allowed to veto the establishment of the Council. Over the next weeks we must redouble our efforts to translate that broad support into specifics on what the Council will look like and on its mandate. We shall look to the President to set a work programme that will aim for agreement on the details. Our second human rights priority for the sixtieth session is to see negotiations completed on the draft convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. The constructive and collegial spirit of delegations in the Ad Hoc Committee on the rights of persons with disabilities has been extraordinary. New Zealand is confident that it will be possible to conclude the negotiations in 2006 if the Ad Hoc Committee is enabled to meet for three weeks next January. Our ability to strengthen the United Nations across the board in development, security and human rights will be enhanced by implementing summit undertakings on Secretariat and management reform. We need particularly to improve the managerial effectiveness and accountability of the Secretary- General. He should be given, as he has requested, the tools that he needs to manage the Secretariat. We strongly support the review of all budgetary and human resource rules and regulations and the review of mandates. We support also the increased focus on ensuring ethical conduct on the part of all United Nations personnel. We believe a system-wide code of ethics and an independent ethics office would facilitate that. New Zealand also welcomes the commitment to strengthening the United Nations Office of Internal Oversight Services. The outcome document calls for early reform of the Security Council, and the General Assembly is to review progress on this issue by the end of the year. New Zealand continues to believe that the Security Council needs to be more effective and more representative for the twenty-first century, although we have no illusions about the difficulties of reaching agreement on this. We should in the meantime renew our efforts to improve the working methods of the Security Council. For those many Member States who rarely, if ever, occupy a non-permanent seat on the Council, there should be other ways to participate in Council decisions and contribute to discussions. We, as Member States, have shown in finalizing the summit outcome a mixture of courage and creativity on the one hand and of stubbornness and hesitation on the other. The implementation period ahead gives us a second chance to make good on those moments when we allowed agreements to slip through our fingers. We put our trust in our President to set up the structures for ongoing work and to be the catalyst to motivate and energize us. In closing, I would like to acknowledge the much valued contribution that former President Ping made over the last year, and we thank him.It gives me great pleasure to address the General Assembly on the occasion of my first visit to the United Nations as head of State. First, I congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside over the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. I would also like to pay tribute to the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his able stewardship of our Organization and the reform proposals he has put forward for our consideration. Since his appointment, the Secretary-General has steered the United Nations with tact and patience. His skill as a builder of consensus has indeed been exemplary. We share his vision for the United Nations in the twenty-first century as outlined in his epic report entitled ìIn larger freedomî (A/59/2005). I am confident that Member States will seize this historic opportunity and deliver on the promise of a better world for posterity. The shift in the global distribution of power, accompanied by the emergence of new threats and challenges, has dramatically changed the context within which the United Nations operates. The United Nations of the future must still, however, remain true to the universal values that inspired its creation. Our peoples expect the United Nations to act as an agent of progress. They look to the Organization to play an effective and leading role in improving their economic and social well-being. Kenya embraces the principles of the Charter, which serve as a basic reference point for the reform of the United Nations. Those principles are the core of its inner strength. We believe that the principle of democracy is as central to this Organization and its future health as it is to the prosperity of our own nations. Kenya deeply cherishes that principle and seeks its generous spread around the world and in this institution. Global problems require global solutions. The United Nations is the only vehicle that can help us attain those solutions and give legitimacy to our actions. The United Nations remains indispensable in the maintenance of international peace and security. It is pivotal to the attainment of sustainable development and the advancement of human rights. Let us work to strengthen the United Nations to meet contemporary challenges. Important proposals for United Nations reform are already on the table. My Government embraces the holistic definition of collective security, which strongly affirms the connections between peace, development, human rights and the rule of law. Those goals cannot be realized in isolation. As the Secretary-General observed, ìwe will not enjoy development without security, we will not enjoy security without development, and we will not enjoy either without respect for human rightsî (A/59/2005, para. 17). I am sure we all acknowledge those plain truths. 15 Kenya firmly believes that reform of the United Nations is a process, not an event. In view of the integrated nature of the issues, we need to adopt a comprehensive policy approach to United Nations reforms. We must maintain a broad vision driven by collective effort for the ultimate benefit of the international system. I am happy to note that although some of the proposals have been adopted, we should now move quickly to implement them. I refer especially to the proposals that do not require amendment of the Charter. They include the adoption of a robust counter- terrorism strategy, strengthening peacekeeping, creating a Peacebuilding Commission and Fund and the reform of the human rights system. I am also pleased to note the consensus on the strengthening of the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and a strong relationship between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations. Environmental protection is a threat that is a major challenge in the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. This places the environment, more than ever, at the core of sustainable development. International environmental governance is an integral part of realizing sustainable development. Kenya fully endorses the ongoing process of defining the elements of international environmental governance. This, however, should be done within the framework of the Cartagena decision, which aims at strengthening the United Nations Environment Programme within its current mandate through an enhanced financial and scientific base. We should also recognize that no truly effective response can be made unless the international community fully complies with its commitment to make the means available as provided for in various multilateral environmental agreements. Kenya remains firmly committed to the United Nations Programme of Action on Small Arms and Light Weapons and is gratified with the status of its implementation, at both national and regional levels. Despite the progress made, small arms and other conventional weapons continue to end up in the hands of wrong non-State actors, with attendant adverse implications on peace and security leading to political instability in many countries. In order to curb this trend, Kenya requests the Secretary-General to undertake a study into the possibility of a legal instrument to control international transfers of conventional arms. Kenya also supports proposals for the enhancement of peace-support operation capabilities of the United Nations. Any mandate for peacekeeping forces should be clear and precise. Adequate resources must be made available to the commanders in the field to enable them to execute their mandates effectively. Intervention in crisis situations must also be timely to prevent undue loss of life. Kenya welcomes vital contributions to peace and security made by regional organizations forging predictable partnerships between the United Nations and regional organizations. Furthermore, Kenya endorses the proposal to establish a strategic military capacity to reinforce United Nations peacekeeping and the creation of a standby brigade for rapid deployment of the Organizationís civilian police in peacekeeping operations. We strongly support the Secretary-Generalís proposal to establish a Peacebuilding Commission and fund by 31 December 2005. We believe such a peacebuilding commission will contribute to the realization of real peace in many regions. However, it is important that critical questions about form, function and decision-making authority be resolved. In our own neighbourhood, the importance of post-conflict peacebuilding has become a bigger priority after the recent successes of the Sudan and Somalia mediation efforts, which Kenya chaired under the auspices of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development. Kenya commends the international community for the excellent response during the Oslo pledging conference towards reconstruction of southern Sudan. We urge a similar response to support the Transitional Federal Government of Somalia in setting up and implementing a national security, stabilization and economic reconstruction strategy. We also call upon the Security Council to play a more positive proactive role in the search for a broad consensus for peace and thus enhance the capacity of the Transitional Federal Government to establish basic institutions. On the reform of the Security Council, it is necessary to make it far more equitable and 16 representative of the United Nations global constituency. The procedures and methods of work of the Council should be changed to secure transparency and dialogue with the United Nations membership. Furthermore, the future composition of the Security Council should proceed on the basis of sovereign equality of States and equitable geographical representation. Kenya welcomes the proposal to develop a stronger relationship between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations. For Africa, there is abundant political will in our continent to make the African Union succeed. I believe that external support, especially from the United Nations and the international community at large, would make the African Union work better. The establishment of an African Union Peace and Security Council and of the intervention force planned to be set up by 2009 are measures aimed at advancing political stability in Africa to underpin economic development. Already, the African Union has taken the lead in Burundi and in Darfur, in the Sudan, where deployments of peacekeeping missions have preceded international action by the United Nations. The recent pledges by the Group of Eight (G-8) countries to double aid to Africa and grant 100-per- cent debt relief to 18 developing countries were welcome. We hope they will honour their pledges and commitments in conformity with the agreement forged at the 2002 Monterrey International Conference on Financing for Development. Support by the G-8 will help African countries achieve the Millennium Development Goals. Kenya affirms the centrality of gender equality and recognizes the critical role that women must play in development. We also recognize that achievement of the Millennium Development Goals depends on the empowerment of women. As part of our effort to fully attain this objective, my Government has adopted a national policy on gender development. The aim is to integrate women in decision-making through legal, regulatory and institutional reforms. I am convinced that, if we are to attain our common objective of revitalizing the United Nations, we should embrace the vision presented by the Secretary-General in his package of reforms. This will require political will and leadership on our part. I therefore urge Member States to seize this opportunity and endorse proposals on which there is broad consensus. As we contemplate strengthening and renewing our Organization, we should do so for posterity.The struggle for democracy being waged by Nicaragua has transcended our borders, arousing feelings of solidarity and support in different parts of the world. The Nicaraguan people raised their voice and they were heard by Central America. From there, with the added strength of the seven fraternal countries that joined it, that voice resounded throughout the Andean Community, Mexico, the United States of America, Canada, the Rio Group, the Organization of American States (OAS), the European Union and Japan, to mention only the most recent cases. Indeed, the echo of that voice has reverberated at the United Nations in various reports and resolutions. From this rostrum in the General Assembly Hall, I would like to convey to Member States the deep gratitude of the Nicaraguan people for the solidarity they have shown to us. We come to the sixtieth session of the General Assembly at a turning point for our future, for we are in the throes of a struggle for democracy, a struggle to keep us from returning to our dark days and make them a thing of the past. Like the peoples of other United Nations Members who have fought for their freedom, thousands of Nicaraguans have died for it, victims of a perverse pendulum that swung from authoritarianism to totalitarianism. The lessons learned in those years left us a legacy that acknowledges the supreme value of freedom, democracy and, above all, peace. Over the past four years, we have been striving for national revitalization and institutional overhaul based on transparency, freedom, the rule of law, social equality and individual initiative. To carry out that Herculean task, we needed to overcome the errors of the past. That is why, with support from the rest of our continent, we have engaged in a frontal attack on corruption and impunity. We have also attempted to restore independence and integrity to our institutions, held hostage by private and partisan interests. Those efforts include the legal 34 sphere, where the absolute impartiality and objectivity of judges and magistrates, as well as an inclusive electoral system capable of ensuring respect for a popular vote cast in freedom, are imperative. It also requires that institutions act in the service of the higher interests of the nation and do not become weapons in political vendettas, used in campaigns to intimidate public officials in the executive branch. The forces conniving to oppose democracy responded by escalating the breakdown in the constitutional order and the legitimate exercise of power. They then attempted to upset the balance of power, an essential principal of representative democracy in the inter-American system. The opposition attempted to execute a new type of coup d’état, corrupting State institutions by using them as instruments of political coercion. Instead of accepting the separation of powers, they appropriated the distribution of power, attempting to modify the powers of the President retroactively without consulting the Nicaraguan people. Only the Nicaraguan people can confer national sovereignty and presidential power, as they did at the polls in November 2001. In the light of those threats to democracy, we have harnessed all our available resources under national legislation and international law. The Central American Court of Justice, the judicial arm of the Central American Integration System and rooted in democratic values, handed down a far-reaching decision on 29 March 2005 recognizing the separation of powers as a democratic principle. Under the Inter- American Democratic Charter, we also turned to the Organization of American States, which affirmed that the disturbing turn of events in Nicaragua was compromising the balance of power and the Government’s legitimate exercise of power. To overcome that situation, President Enrique Bolaños has expressed his continuing willingness to launch a broad national dialogue with all sectors. This does not mean, however — as the forces attempting to destroy our institutions have claimed — a dialogue aimed at surrendering democracy. Nor should it be a dialogue in which a gun is held to the President’s head to force him to make concessions that would lead to a new type of dictatorship in Nicaragua — one never before seen in the history of Latin America — one that would bring back the trials and tribulations of earlier years and put an end to freedom and dash the democratic hopes of the Nicaraguan people and all nations. On the contrary, as the Organization of American States itself has said in its resolutions, it is a dialogue aimed at seeking democratic solutions, free from pressure, threats and coercion, and aimed at the cessation of any actions that could exacerbate the crisis and prevent the restoration of the balance of power. We deplore the murder of journalists in any part of the world. In particular, we are concerned by the murders of three Nicaraguan journalists that took place over the past three years. We are concerned not only because the criminals cut short precious human lives, but also because the murders came at the height of the electoral campaign and constituted an attempt to terrorize our journalists and suppress freedom of expression in our young democracy. By attacking freedom of expression, they are harming the democratic processes. Those forces are well aware that freedom of expression is the voice of democracy. Freedom of expression protects all the other fundamental rights; without it, freedom loses its sustenance and democracy is orphaned. We will continue doing our utmost to punish the guilty and break up all networks of terror and intimidation. We are aware of the importance of the upcoming electoral processes for democracy in Nicaragua. Under the present circumstances, we must guarantee the Nicaraguan people that every vote will be duly registered, counted and respected, and that their sacred right to elect their authorities in conditions of absolute freedom will not be violated. As a result, we have asked the Secretary-General for technical assistance from the United Nations specialized agencies to help us hold elections and strengthen our democracy, complementing the work being carried out by the Organization of American States with assistance of the European Union. Despite the energy, resources and efforts diverted from development in order to preserve democracy, Nicaragua has made major strides towards fulfilling the Millennium Development Goals. Destabilizing actions have not stopped the Nicaraguan people from beginning to enjoy the first fruits of the war against corruption and to benefit from an honest and transparent civil service that has succeeded in attracting foreign investment and winning the confidence of the international community. 35 The latest gauge of President Bolaños’s success in enabling more and more Nicaraguans to lead a decent life can be found in the Human Development Report 2005, which states that we have progressed from the 118th to the 112th position. The best medium- term strategy for sustainable poverty reduction is to gain access to new markets and make international trade the driving force of growth, combining economic growth with social development in order to develop our human capital. The Government of Nicaragua is promoting ratification of the Central American Free Trade Agreement between Central America, the Dominican Republic and the United States of America, which seeks to strengthen our economy, integrate us into the world and raise our population’s standard of living, particularly that of the poorest sectors. We welcomed with hope the words of President Bush in his statement to this Assembly: “A successful Doha Round will reduce and eliminate tariffs and other barriers on farm and industrial goods. It will end unfair agricultural subsidies ... Under Doha, every nation will gain — and the developing world stands to gain the most.” (A/60/PV.2, p. 8) May that be the case. I am pleased to announce that in accordance with the request made by the heads of State and Government of the Central American Integration System to President Vicente Fox of Mexico on 12 September, we are today sending his Government the information that will make it possible to explore innovative finance mechanisms to help our countries deal with the crisis caused by the international price of oil. Poverty is a multi-dimensional phenomenon associated with economic and structural problems. The reduction of unemployment and social inequality and the expansion of social investment are determining factors for human development: in other words, sustainable economic growth within a democratic framework based on social and gender equality. The Government of Nicaragua is carrying out social programmes to protect the rights and satisfy the basic needs of the most vulnerable sectors of Nicaraguan society — women, children, young people, the elderly and persons with disabilities. This protection extends to Nicaraguans abroad. We reaffirm our priority commitment to promoting respect for the dignity of all our migrants, who, with their work and their efforts, contribute to socio-economic development, that of their host country and that of their home country. A duty of justice and solidarity moves Nicaragua to raise its voice in support of the just and legitimate aspiration of the Republic of China on Taiwan to become a member of the universal forum of the United Nations. The more than 20 million nationals of that country deserve to be regarded as an integral part of the peoples of the United Nations. Nicaragua is grateful to the Central American Integration System for endorsing our candidacy for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the 2006-2007 term, reflecting the right of countries with small economies to be represented on an equal footing. At a time of reform of the Organization, Nicaragua is also grateful for the significant support it has received thus far and affirms its resolve to continue seeking the support of all Member States. We hope to be elected and to share our experience in areas such as peacekeeping and peacebuilding and to support the just aspiration of developing countries to participate fully in decisions concerning security, with all the responsibility, benefits and consequences that that implies.At this session we celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations. We also begin, actively and seriously, our effort to revitalize this strong Organization, which humankind decided to establish after it experienced two devastating wars during the first half of the twentieth century. There is no doubt that this session has been convened at a time when international relations are undergoing major changes and when hope is being tempered by threats 7 and challenges to the stability of the international community and the peace and security of all our peoples. Recent international developments have proved the increasing need to strengthen the capabilities of the multilateral framework in addressing problems facing our nations and peoples and in achieving the required balance on four issues that we consider to be at the core of our contemporary interests: development, international peace and security, human rights and the institutional reform of the Organization. Addressing the issue of development at the international level requires strong political will to implement the commitments we have undertaken, which we reaffirmed together in the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting (resolution 60/1), primarily the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals adopted at the Millennium Summit, the revitalization of the international partnership for development and the mobilization of the financial resources it requires, and the fulfilment of the commitment made by many developed countries to reach the target of 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP) in official development assistance by 2015. I would like to take this opportunity to express Egypt’s appreciation to the countries that have reaffirmed their commitment to fulfil their obligations in that regard. In attaining our common goals, it is therefore imperative to use the consensus we reached at the High-level Plenary Meeting as a platform to build greater consensus towards achieving the development priorities of developing countries, especially during the upcoming Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization, to be held in Hong Kong, and at other international forums dealing with issues of importance to the developing world, especially those of trade, debt relief, investment and industrial modernization, as well as other issues that can bring about the justice and openness required in our international trading system and provide developing countries with the opportunities they need to raise the living standards of their peoples. In fulfilling our long-standing commitments to achieve sustained economic growth and sustainable development in Africa, Egypt wishes to call upon our partners in developed countries to play a leading role in support of the implementation of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). That African-owned initiative constitutes an ambitious partnership for sustainable development that can ensure Africa’s integration into the world economy, lead to the achievement of good national and international governance and promote the contribution of civil society and the private sector in the achievement of our development goals. Along with achieving economic security for all, it is essential that we strive to achieve international peace and security by practically and realistically addressing the challenges and threats facing the international community. Since terrorism is the most dangerous menace of our times, Egypt actively contributed to reaching consensus on the Summit Outcome document’s condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, as it constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security. Contrary to what some might have imagined, the recent terrorist attacks that have struck many countries — including Egypt — have now made it clear that terrorism is a danger that does not distinguish among peoples, cultures or religions; rather it is a non- discriminating threat to human civilization. Those attacks have also reminded us that counter-terrorism efforts should not be limited to enhancing measures to combat terrorism or to finding ways to improve their implementation. Rather, they should include effectively addressing the underlying causes of the phenomenon. Accordingly, Egypt has put forth an initiative to convene a high-level meeting of the General Assembly to draft and adopt a comprehensive plan of action that includes the necessary legal and practical measures to deal effectively with terrorism — without affecting the ability of peoples under occupation to gain their independence in accordance with established international law and norms — until it is completely eradicated. In conformity with that position, Egypt pledges to exert extensive efforts with a view to concluding a comprehensive convention on international terrorism. Such a convention, along with the 12 existing international counter-terrorism conventions, to which the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism was added this year, could constitute the most comprehensive legal framework possible to tackle this phenomenon. 8 The issues of disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction relate to another major threat requiring concerted international action in the near future, specially as the High-level Plenary Meeting could not reach agreement on how to address those issues in a manner consistent with their crucial importance and urgency to the safety and security of the human race. Our common endeavour should be based on restoring the balance between nuclear disarmament, non-proliferation and the peaceful uses of nuclear energy: the three pillars of progress in achieving our common objectives. The point of departure for our undertaking can only be the consensus reached at the 1995 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), which constitutes an integral part of the package that made possible the indefinite extension of the NPT, along with the resolution on the Middle East adopted at that Conference. Concerted international efforts, in particular by nuclear-weapon States, to achieve the universality of the NPT are essential; otherwise, we risk having the Treaty lose its credibility and relevance. To that end, we require strong political will to relaunch the United Nations disarmament machinery, reinforce the mutual and balanced implementation of commitments and obligations set forth in existing treaties, achieve the universality of those treaties prior to making any attempts to impose further obligations on States parties and fully respect the commitments entered into under those instruments. We also need determination to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East, in order to support efforts to reach a just and comprehensive peace in the region. The establishment of the Human Rights Council must prove to be a landmark in the promotion of, and respect for, principles and freedoms. Its mandate, composition and methods of work must be formulated in a democratic manner and be based on the principle of equitable geographic distribution while also taking into consideration each region’s specific cultural and civilizational characteristics. The Human Rights Council must also assist and encourage countries to improve human rights and respect for the rule of law on their territories. To that end, we must strengthen the human rights machinery and the rule of law in a manner that will enable us to redress existing shortcomings — in particular, politicization, selectivity and double standards — and as to promote coexistence and dialogue among civilizations in contrast to the division and differences that characterize our current handling of these issues. In that connection, I agree with the previous speaker, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Australia. The Egyptian National Council on Human Rights has been established in order to promote that effort. It enjoys the institutional independence it needs to carry out its tasks with due impartiality and objectivity. It also has the capacity to promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to participate in the formulation, prioritization and implementation of national policies. We must also launch a coordinated multilateral effort to promote human rights and to address rights violations by enhancing the capacity of States to protect their populations against genocide, ethnic cleansing, war crimes and crimes against humanity. Here, we must not capitalize on exceptional situations as a pretext to interfere in the internal affairs of States. In accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the relevant provisions of international law, we must draw a line between the inability of a State to protect its population against such crimes and its unwillingness to do so. Our common efforts to ensure larger freedom for our peoples are closely linked to our resolve and ability to settle current political issues, most notably in our region, the Palestinian question. While we welcome the Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and a few settlements in the northern part of the West Bank, we also call upon the Israeli Government to continue withdrawing its troops from all Palestinian territories and to implement all of its commitments in that respect, in accordance with the road map, which should lead us to our common goal: the establishment of an independent Palestinian State coexisting with Israel in mutual peace and security. However, until we reach that goal, Israel must cease settlement activities in the West Bank, stop building its separation wall, improve the humanitarian situation of the Palestinians in the occupied territories and launch final-status negotiations towards a comprehensive settlement. Israel must also withdraw from the remaining Arab territories in Syria and Lebanon occupied in 1967. Furthermore, we cannot address respect for human rights unless we address the human rights situation in Iraq, particularly every Iraqi citizen’s right 9 to life. In that context, and despite the establishment of the Interim Government and the drafting of a new constitution, national reconciliation among the entire brotherly Iraqi people is still needed. We urgently need an increased understanding that violence and the killing of innocent people will not lead to the desired security and stability for Iraq. Egypt will continue its support for the important steps taken by the Sudan towards peace and stability, in the context of maintaining that country’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Egypt will continue to support the implementation of the Nairobi Comprehensive Peace Agreement on southern Sudan and the Cairo agreement complementing it. We will also participate actively in peace negotiations on Darfur under the auspices of the African Union and continue Egypt’s support by contributing troops to the United Nations Mission in the Sudan, as well as observers to the African Union Mission in Darfur. It is in that context that Egypt continues to place the security and stability of Africa at the centre of its regional and international policies. Egypt will therefore continue to increase its efforts to resolve contemporary African political problems. It has contributed, and will continue to contribute, to all peacekeeping operations in Africa, as well as to support all of Africa’s ongoing efforts to implement an integrated approach to development that covers all political, economic and social dimensions. Egypt’s commitment to Africa is based on an unwavering conviction of our common destiny and on the need for continued cooperation. Here, the African Union has a central role to play; it must have the full support of the United Nations. Because of the particular importance that Africa attaches to the link between security and development in addressing situations in countries emerging from conflict, Egypt has supported the establishment of the proposed Peacebuilding Commission. However, the activities of the Commission must reflect a balance among the various mandates of the principal organs of the United Nations and the various steps taken in tackling each issue. We also call for a leading in the work of the Commission role for both the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council, along with the Security Council. The Commission must become neither a body to impose trusteeship on States nor an instrument to bypass the will and the national priorities of States. The Peacebuilding Commission must always remain an effective advisory body focusing on mobilizing assistance to post-conflict countries on its agenda, in order to enable them to attain their national aspirations to sustainable peace and stability. The United Nations will not be able to carry out all those increasing and challenging tasks unless we embark upon effective institutional reform that takes into consideration the balance between the Organization’s principal organs, that ensures the implementation of the Organization’s tasks and that enhances the credibility of the United Nations and eliminates the causes of the criticism it has been facing. There is no doubt that among the most important pillars of institutional reform is the revitalization of the General Assembly and the strengthening of its role as the chief deliberative, policymaking, implementing and monitoring body of the United Nations. The Assembly should cooperate with the Secretary-General within a transparent framework and should provide him with the authority he needs to carry out his tasks effectively while ensuring that he remains committed to the tasks mandated by the principal organs of the Organization. We look forward to the proposals that the Secretary-General is expected to present, including those on improving auditing and oversight, which should duly take into account the intergovernmental nature of the existing budgetary and management committees. We also look forward to undertaking, through the General Assembly and other relevant bodies, a one-time review of mandates older than five years, while emphasizing the need to avoid a mere regulatory approach to that issue and the imperative of taking its political implications into consideration. We must never neglect the international political balance, or affect ongoing efforts to resolve contemporary problems. In that context, the reform and expansion of the Security Council is becoming increasingly important, particularly in the light of the Council’s role in the maintenance of international peace and security. That reform must ensure that the Security Council is more representative of the general membership of the Organization and more transparent in addressing the issues on its agenda. In that regard, I wish to stress the commitment of Egypt to the African Common Position on this issue, as set out in the Ezulwini consensus and the Sirte declaration, which aims at fulfilling the 10 legitimate aspirations of our continent for permanent and balanced representation in an expanded Security Council and at remedying the existing imbalance in the representation of Africa in particular and of developing countries in general. The outcome document that we adopted at the High-level Plenary Meeting marking the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations (resolution 60/1) is solid proof of the vitality of the Organization and of a genuine desire that its essential role continue. We look forward to working together to move ahead and to improve the capacity of the United Nations to fulfil our common objectives on the basis of firm political will to implement the commitments agreed upon in that document. We must expand the agreement’s scope to encompass all aspects of international action. That is the only path available to us in order to attain our peoples’ aspirations to peace, security and stability.Allow me at the outset to express my heartfelt congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. Your vast experience in the international arena is the best guarantee of success for your mandate. My sincere thanks go also to your predecessor, Jean Ping, who presided over the fifty-ninth session with particular effectiveness and skill. The deliberations of the High-level Plenary Meeting represent an important and significant step in the process of adapting the United Nations to the global challenges that it must address. The results achieved in the process of reforming the United Nations, its basic principles and its bodies reflect the broadest consensus that could be mustered within the international community. Any attempt to reach for more would in all probability have meant jeopardizing its unity, which is an absolute and essential value. We should therefore rate those results highly and consider them to be a call to action. Indeed, the heads of State or Government have shown us the path to follow. It is now up to the General Assembly and the Secretariat to set about implementing the initiatives agreed upon in the outcome document, improving and developing them where necessary. Recent events remind us, sometimes tragically, of the need for a multilateral system that has a solid structure and can respond swiftly and effectively to the many challenges that individual members of the international community would never be able to address by themselves. Italy is convinced of this, and commitment to multilateralism is a basic characteristic of our foreign policy. Of course, Italian support for the action of international organizations is not based solely on abstract ideals. We support the principle, and especially the practice, of multilateralism because we are convinced that common principles and, above all, common interests justify the sharing of resources, tools, responsibilities and benefits. Joint action is inconceivable without a shared perception of interests, objectives and their priorities. Among the positive results of the High-level Plenary Meeting is that it encouraged consensus on an innovative and comprehensive vision of collective security and highlighted the main phenomena threatening that security. Terrorism, underdevelopment and fundamentalism are the primary threats, and our response must be equal to the challenge; it can come only from a strong and credible multilateral system. In the light of the emergence of fundamentalist terrorism, the use of force by itself, although sometimes inevitable, is not enough. It is not through weapons, but through political means, that we can create the conditions for a fruitful dialogue among cultures, civilizations and religions and thereby develop the social and international solidarity that can prevent terrorism from continuing its criminal proselytizing. 9 Global solidarity is also the most appropriate response to the scandal of global poverty, which results from the persistence of profound inequities in the distribution of wealth — inequities that violate not only every standard of fairness, but also the most fundamental criteria of logic and effectiveness. To eradicate underdevelopment, we must promote a tangible solidarity that provides real and lasting benefits by combining political and economic action on the part of donor countries with the heightened sense of responsibility and autonomy that is developing in emerging countries as they yearn to shake off the culture of dependency. Underdevelopment and terrorism often find unifying elements — which increases the potential for instability — in fundamentalism and ideological fanaticism, sworn enemies of universal values such as freedom, peace and equality: values seen as a grave threat by those who seek to control and delegitimize our social systems. We firmly believe that the international community must unite in the fight against terrorism, underdevelopment and fundamentalism. This session of the General Assembly will have the task of identifying concrete initiatives and actions to that end. Italy’s steadfast commitment — even at the cost of significant sacrifices — to promoting peace in key areas of crisis such as the Middle East, the Balkans and Darfur; our assistance to countries, such as Afghanistan and Iraq, that are seeking to recover after decades of obscurantist oppression; our commitment to spreading a culture of freedom and dialogue among cultures; and our front-line commitment to fighting the scourge of underdevelopment, including through innovative methods such as debt cancellation and participation in the Global Fund against the major epidemics, are eloquent and material testimony to the seriousness of our intentions. In that regard, I wish to mention in particular our activities to promote the development of the African continent — activities carried out not only by way of anti-poverty initiatives, but also by strengthening African capacities in the areas of conflict prevention, management and settlement. We are prepared to meet the challenges before us, which will entail the significant contribution of material and human resources that Italy is providing for the functioning of the United Nations. It would not be consistent with Italy’s attachment to multilateralism if I did not add that our efforts would be bound to fail if they were carried out individually and not within a multilateral framework — hence our resolve to strengthen multilateralism. The reform proposals introduced over the past year and submitted for the consideration of heads of State or Government provide us with new and potentially valuable tools that we must put to good use. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility of significantly developing the international community’s capacity to prevent crisis situations, manage conflicts and modernize the modalities and contents of traditional development assistance programmes in order to promote lasting stability. That is why Italy cannot but favour the prospect of developing or inventing tools for communal action in those areas by creating new bodies such as the Peacebuilding Commission and the Human Rights Council. Their creation will make it possible to operationalize the desired integrated approach to crisis management and management of peacekeeping operations — an approach that promises to reduce the recurrence of conflicts, consolidate peace processes in crisis regions and promote the restoration of rule-of- law infrastructures. The reform process under way can and must invest in United Nations institutions in their entirety, with regard to both their composition and working methods, in order to strengthen effectiveness, while at the same time ensuring the coherence and balance of the Organization’s general framework. Italy is fully aware and convinced of this. We are also convinced of the need — especially in this area — to proceed with due attention to individual sensitivities, within the framework of a process that ensures transparency and inclusiveness. At the summit, it was not possible to reach an agreement on the rather controversial subject of Security Council reform, whose various aspects, already widely debated in the preparatory phase, are well known. Also well known is the position of Italy and of countries that, like us, belong to the “Uniting for consensus” group. We presented a proposal aimed at greater inclusion, greater effectiveness and increased democratic participation, having broad geographic and regional representation and elaborated in a constructive and flexible spirit. 10 We are well aware that the priorities of other countries are different, and we obviously respect their positions, although we do not share them. It is our fervent hope that everyone will be convinced that Security Council reform cannot be the result of shows of force, unacceptable conditions or artificial accelerations aimed at creating new positions of privilege. Awareness of the need to reform the Council is the common heritage of all Members. Such reform certainly cannot be considered the exclusive prerogative of those who advocate one reform option as opposed to another. Recent events have demonstrated that none of the proposals currently on the table has the votes needed for adoption. Undoubtedly, none of them enjoys the broad consensus essential to ensure that the future shape of the Security Council will help unite, and not divide, the international community. This is why we firmly believe that it is necessary to turn the page in order to unite efforts to seek new consensus formulas, both in terms of substance and in terms of method. It is clear that this quest cannot go on forever. Travelling this road together with trust and perseverance is the only way to ensure effective and lasting outcomes. Italy is prepared to consider, in a constructive spirit, any potential solution that will garner the broadest consensus possible, but will continue to oppose — in accordance with the principles shared by a growing number of Member States — any formulas that could create new divisions and marginalization. Given the challenges it must face, the international community needs to be united in its intentions. I know quite well that in these statements, the adjective “historic” is used so often that it loses much of its meaning. Nevertheless, when we think about the timetables and the risks or opportunities that are emerging, describing the moment of this General Assembly as historic does not seem an exaggeration. A well-known aphorism reminds us that those who do not remember history are condemned to repeat it. History teaches us that a united international community based on the recognition of shared principles and basic interests is the necessary condition for ensuring peace, development and progress for our peoples.I would like to join those who have expressed thanks to the Secretary-General for his efforts in recent years to address the very serious issues facing the international community. Iceland had high expectations for the results of last week’s summit, which were met only partly in its outcome document (resolution 60/1). Much further work is needed. While most of the key values in the Charter were reaffirmed, it is Iceland’s view that human rights and the accountability of States to their citizens were insufficiently dealt with. The United Nations Charter guarantees equality among nations and provides a basis on which they can live together as good neighbours. However, the Charter not only addresses how relations should be conducted among Governments; it also specifies how Governments should conduct themselves towards their peoples. That is what the Secretary-General has called the accountability of States to their citizens. Iceland supports the Secretary-General’s strong statement on the responsibility borne by the international community in cases of massive human rights abuses or genocide. The United Nations has made significant progress in that respect by recognizing the existence of an international responsibility to protect. The Security Council and other institutions have thus been given a clear mandate — indeed, a clear duty — to act where crimes against humanity are committed. 6 Democracy and respect for universal human rights are of central importance to security and development. Iceland supports the establishment of the United Nations Democracy Fund and will contribute to it. We are also strongly in favour of reforming the present human rights machinery. The Commission on Human Rights is dysfunctional and devoid of credibility; deliberations on human rights have suffered accordingly. Moreover, the credibility of the entire United Nations Organization is threatened. There now exists a summit mandate to establish a Human Rights Council, which will be responsible for promoting universal respect for the protection of all human rights and fundamental freedoms. For Iceland, the ideal Human Rights Council would be smaller than the Commission and would be in session all year so that it could respond to emergencies. The composition of the new Council will be fundamental to its effectiveness. It must not include major human rights abusers. At the summit, Member States committed themselves to making every possible effort to conclude a comprehensive convention on international terrorism. Such a convention must unconditionally condemn terrorism. If it is to be fully effective, it must include a legal definition of terrorist acts. Unfortunately, the threat of terrorism, combined with that of weapons of mass destruction, is not dealt with in the outcome document, which fails to address the proliferation of such weapons. Proliferation is a profound danger which the United Nations cannot ignore but must confront in a decisive manner. Iceland welcomes the emphasis placed by the document on investing in prevention, peacemaking, peacekeeping and peacebuilding. We welcome in particular the proposal to create a Peacebuilding Commission and a Support Office within the Secretariat. Iceland is willing to take part, along with other Member States, in ensuring that both are up and running by the end of the year. I must express disappointment at the fact that the group of four proposal for reforming the Security Council has not yet received the support it deserves. While not perfect, it remains the most practical basis for reforming the Council. That approach therefore continues to have Iceland’s firm support. The Council must reflect the world as it is and be representative. Iceland has previously, in this very forum, expressed its interest in participating actively in the work of the Council in the years 2009 and 2010. The Millennium Declaration provides a platform to address poverty in the developing countries. Developed countries have committed themselves to providing the necessary support in the form of official development assistance. It is no less important for developing countries to create a transparent and accountable environment that respects good governance and the rule of law, in order to attract domestic and foreign investment, which fosters the growth of a vibrant private sector. It is also important for developed and developing countries to ensure a successful outcome of the current World Trade Organization negotiations. The Government of Iceland has acknowledged the great challenge posed by the Millennium Development Goals. Accordingly, it will continue substantially to increase Iceland’s official development assistance in the coming years. Iceland is committed to reform of the United Nations and to finding common ways of dealing with threats to international security. The outcome document has serious shortcomings, and the risk remains that the United Nations could be further weakened. Member States must ensure that the process continues and that it will, in the coming weeks and months, deliver on the fundamental issues at hand in the interests of peace and prosperity in the world.I would like to congratulate you, Mr. Eliasson, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly and to assure you of my country's full support during this sixtieth session of the General Assembly. Reform will be a central theme at the Assembly's sixtieth session. Allow me to focus on four institutional reforms, by which Switzerland sets great store. They are, first of all, the creation of a Human Rights Council; secondly, reform of the Security Council; thirdly, the Peacebuilding Commission; and, fourthly, internal management of the United Nations. The creation of a Human Rights Council is crucial. The Commission on Human Rights in its present form suffers from various defects. We deplore its weak capacity to respond to grave human rights violations. We also regret its overly selective character and the application of double standards, which undermine its authority. Switzerland welcomes the decision made by the Member States at the summit to replace the Commission on Human Rights with a Human Rights Council. However, we regret that it has not been possible, even at this stage, to establish some of the working methods on which there was wide agreement. For Switzerland, this Human Rights Council should be a principal organ of the United Nations or should at least be directly subordinate to the General Assembly. It should convene periodically, be based in Geneva and should work in close cooperation with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. It should be of a size that guarantees both its legitimacy and the capacity to work effectively. Finally, to ensure real added value, it should incorporate those instruments that constitute the strength of the present Commission without reproducing its defects. The profile and working methods of the Human Rights Council should be established promptly. We have given ourselves until the end of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly to do this, but the ideal solution would be to complete the work before the next session of the Commission on Human Rights, which starts next March. We now need a clearer picture of the process which the President of the General Assembly intends to conduct. We assure him of our strong support in this task. Switzerland hopes that the future Human Rights Council can start its work soon, and it invites all States to strive towards this goal. Switzerland has also been actively involved in the reform of the Security Council, an organ that embodies both the strengths and the weaknesses of the United Nations. No one can deny that the composition of the Security Council should better reflect contemporary geopolitical realities. Enlargement of the Security Council will make it more representative and will strengthen the authority of its decisions. However, enlargement of the Security Council, which has been the subject of intensive debate over the past few months, is only one aspect of the reform that needs to be made. It should not overshadow another indispensable part of the reform: the need to improve the Council’s working methods. For most countries, opportunities to sit on the Security Council are few and limited in time. A serious reform of the Council's working methods would have an immediate and beneficial effect for all Member States. New and more detailed rules should be adopted in a General Assembly resolution and then written into the Security Council's rules of procedure. Reform of the Security Council’s working methods must achieve several goals: it should increase the possibilities for participation by States that are not members of the Council; it should ensure greater accountability of the Council to all the Member States of the United Nations; and, finally, it should improve transparency and find new ways for the Council to hear other points of view. Efficiency is a fourth criterion that needs to be taken into account. Improvements in the working methods of the Security Council must be geared towards strengthening its capacity to efficiently exercise its responsibilities for international peacekeeping and security. In May Switzerland presented a series of specific recommendations that were well received by many Member States. I would like to focus on three specific proposals. First, in accordance with the principle of the responsibility to protect, the right of veto must not be 18 exercised in cases of genocide, ethnic cleansing or other grave and large-scale violations of international humanitarian law or human rights. I believe that that principle is sufficiently clear not to require further elaboration. Secondly, the Security Council should refrain, as far as possible, from exercising legislative functions. The task of codifying and developing international law should remain the primary responsibility of the General Assembly, which includes all Member States. The Council is authorized by the United Nations Charter to take emergency measures to maintain international peace and security. However, that authorization cannot be interpreted as including the power to impose legislative obligations, that is, obligations that are general in scope, abstract and have no time limits. Thirdly, on the subject of Security Council sanctions, the procedures for establishing and revising the lists of targeted individuals and entities must be improved. It is unacceptable that people who are subject to sanctions that affect their basic rights are denied all right of appeal. In particular, it is important to ensure the right to be heard, which is a fundamental human right. Switzerland, together with other countries, intends to present a draft resolution on improving the working methods of the Security Council. Another important institutional reform decided at the summit is the creation of a Peacebuilding Commission. Switzerland has contributed its ideas to that project over the past few months. It welcomes the creation of that body, which will address a key area of United Nations activities and fill a clear institutional gap. Once a conflict has ended, the main players - institutions, States and civil society - must work together to rebuild the country. The principal mission of the Peacebuilding Commission will be to bring those players from the fields of peacekeeping, humanitarian aid, and development together to define joint strategies for future action. The Commission will include representatives of the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council, as well as representatives of the principal financial donors and troop contributors. Switzerland believes that the main United Nations institutions concerned should also take part in the deliberations. For instance, it would be useful to include the Chairman of the United Nations Development Group, the Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and the High Commissioner for Human Rights. It would also be useful to bring on board, as needed, experts from civil society, the academic world or the private sector. Furthermore, in the composition of the Commission, we need to ensure gender parity. Peacekeeping, humanitarian action and development are parallel activities and should not be rigidly divided into successive phases. In drafting its mandate, we should ensure that the Commission has the ability to advise all the institutional actors concerned at any step of the peace and reconstruction process. We cannot speak of improving the efficiency of the Security Council without discussing the improvements that have to be made in the internal management of the United Nations. The Summit Outcome document sets out the most urgently needed measures. They must be implemented without delay. In that context, the three following factors must be taken into account: first, the political competence and responsibility to decide the budget belong to the General Assembly; secondly, the Secretary-General's management authority must be extended; and, thirdly, the internal oversight bodies must be strengthened. The scandals that have tarnished the image of the United Nations in recent months underscore the urgent need to strengthen the means as well as the financial and operational independence of the Office of Internal Oversight Services. Furthermore, given the increasing complexity of their task, we must strengthen cooperation between the various oversight bodies, which are spread across the United Nations system. We invite the Member States to support the enlargement of the mandate of the Office of Internal Oversight Services, so that it is able to respond to requests for assistance from the specialized agencies. Especially close to my heart is the importance of combating cases of abuse and sexual exploitation committed in the context of United Nations peace operations. Such abuses are a grave violation of human rights and of the values that the Organization espouses. They damage the credibility of the Organization and hinder the accomplishment of its missions on the 19 ground. Switzerland advocates zero tolerance on this question. We strongly support the measures that have recently been taken, in particular an increase in the number of resident investigators deployed on the ground under the authority of the Office of Internal Oversight Services. Last autumn, we embarked together on a major undertaking: adapting the multilateral system so that it can address the new problems and challenges of the twenty-first century, with a strengthened and more efficient United Nations at its centre. All reform requires a subtle mix of ambition, realism and patience. We have come part of the way. The basic itinerary was set at the summit. We must now pursue the path of reform, give shape to our early decisions, and resolve persisting differences. That has to be one of the main objectives of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly, which has just begun.At the outset I wish to express my congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. Rest assured that you have the full support and cooperation of the Ukrainian delegation. Let me also pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, for his tireless efforts in the preparation of the world summit. The world summit of 2005 has just come to its conclusion. Its outcome document (resolution 60/1) provides us with clear guidelines. It is our common task to implement ambitious goals for building a safer and more prosperous world. In talking about implementation I wish to emphasize two key elements indispensable for the follow-up activities of the United Nations and, indeed, for the success of the global peace endeavour. They are credibility and democracy — or rather, credibility based on democracy. We know that the way ahead is beset with serious threats and challenges. We have to make sure that a lack of unity is not among those challenges. Every nation likes to sing its own song. It takes our fundamental values and a great deal of human wisdom to perform the role of a tuning fork in the global chorus of so many different voices. The credibility of the United Nations is indispensable if we are to accomplish our missions in the new millennium. Effectiveness, capacity, rapid response, financing for development and all the rest of it will come along with credibility. Security Council reform is a vivid example of how difficult it is to accommodate the interests of 191 nations. That reminds me of a joke about the distribution of committee posts in the Ukrainian Parliament. They say that we should have 450 committees — that is the number of members of Parliament — in order to make everyone feel happy and important. Unfortunately, we cannot afford to apply a similar approach in the case of the Security Council, since its powers exceed by far those of any other United Nations body. The official position of Ukraine on the matter is clearly reflected in the statement made by President Yushchenko during the summit (see A/60/PV.6). Ukraine highly appreciates the job done by the experts who have explored the various options for Security Council reform. We must not abandon hope and should continue to seek consensus. Ukraine has fully supported the Secretary- General’s bold initiative to reform the Organization and has actively participated in that process. We reiterate our support for strengthening the position of the Secretary-General. In view of the forthcoming election for Secretary-General in 2006 we would like to remind representatives that throughout the 60-year history of the United Nations it is only representatives of our Eastern European regional group that have never occupied that highest of posts. Therefore, we believe that the Eastern European Group has priority in nominating a candidate. In building this statement around the words “credibility” and “democracy”, I cannot but stress the key function of the Organization, which is to maintain international peace and security. The memory of Rwanda, Srebrenica or, quite recently, Darfur should lead us to look for urgent remedies. One of these could lie in the “responsibility to protect” concept, which Ukraine fully endorses. We must not remain passive observers of genocide, crimes against humanity or gross and flagrant violations of human rights, as happened in 1932-1933 when Ukrainians experienced the great famine with devastating effects. The horrible memory of that man-made calamity lives on today in every Ukrainian family, including my own. Twenty thousand innocent souls a day, half a million a month, 10 million altogether were taken as part of the death toll of Stalin’s favoured ethnic policy. The Ukrainian Government will never tire until it makes the international community abandon hypocrisy and finally recognize that act of genocide against the Ukrainian nation. It was therefore in earnest and with much hope that Ukraine followed the deliberations on the new concept. Early warning, prevention and rapid response are key to ensuring the success and durability of our concerted action. An expert combination of diplomatic, political and assistance tools should suffice to avert future humanitarian disasters. But should such measures fail to stop atrocities, the Security Council must be ready to act swiftly and resolutely, including with the use of force, as a final resort. I should like to reiterate the position of Ukraine that, apart from self-  05-51226 19 defence as provided for in Article 51 of the Charter, only the Security Council may legitimately take decisions on the use of force. Peace and stability go hand in hand with human rights, the rule of law and freedom of the media. The credibility of Governments rests on those fundamental values. We were all aware of malfunctions in the Commission on Human Rights. Poor mechanisms led to poor results. The credibility of the entire Organization was at stake. Therefore, Ukraine welcomes the establishment of the Human Rights Council. We firmly believe that this important achievement of the Organization will be reflected in the new Council’s future activities, not only in the change of name. Likewise, Ukraine supports the establishment of the United Nations Democracy Fund. Another matter of significance that should enhance the credibility of the United Nations is the creation of the Peacebuilding Commission. It is evident that conflict resolution always requires a complex approach. The institutional gap between prevention, settlement and post-conflict rehabilitation has finally to be eliminated. To save time at this late hour, I shall not mention many areas of cooperation and many regions of the world that genuinely require our undiminished attention and action. Non-proliferation; hot and frozen conflicts; AIDS; the fight against poverty; the Middle East; and Iraq: most often these are issues of the democracy of governance or the credibility of policies, or both. To conclude, let me recall the phenomenon of the Orange Revolution in my country, for it was the quintessence of what our Organization stands for. It was not a one-time act. It is a process. It is not country- specific, but is part of the global heritage of democracy, an unselfish gift to all nations striving for freedom around the globe. I should like first of all to express 13 heartfelt congratulations to you, Sir, on behalf of my delegation and on my own behalf, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. We wish you every success in the discharge of your important functions. Your election to the presidency is, of course a reflection of your great personal qualities and experience. But it is also a tribute to your country, Sweden, which has always been committed to United Nations activities, in particular development assistance. I would like to take this opportunity to express to your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Gabon, my deep admiration for his outstanding work as President, including the considerable efforts that he made throughout his term of office with a view to ensuring the success of the High-level Plenary Meeting, which took place from 14 to 16 September. As an African and as a representative of a country member of the Economic Community of Central African States, I cannot but feel great pride in his achievements. Just a few days ago, a major event took place here at the United Nations — an event comparable to the Millennium Summit, in which leaders from all over the world took part. I am sure that we all remember how the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session invited us to focus our discussion on the theme, “A stronger and more effective Organization: follow-up to and implementation of the High-level Plenary Meeting in September 2005”. On Friday, 16 September, late in the evening, a compromise document was adopted, which was acceptable to my delegation, even though it did not respond to all the concerns expressed in the courageous report of the Secretary-General, to whom, once again, my country would like to pay a well-deserved tribute. Some of the bold proposals that he made, in particular those relating to the need to reform the Organization, seem to us still to be entirely relevant, since they would make the United Nations stronger and more effective by adapting it to the challenges of twenty-first century. The delegation of the Central African Republic believes that the debate on the reform of the Organization, in particular the reform of the Security Council, is far from over. This is not simply a matter of justice for all those who were not present in San Francisco 60 years ago when the Organization was created. The African continent, which really began to make itself heard internationally from 1960 onwards, rightly claims its place within the Security Council on an equitable basis. We can rest assured that the young people of Africa are paying attention to the activities of the United Nations and to our discussions here, and they find it increasingly difficult to understand why our continent is the only one not to have a permanent seat in that body, which is responsible for taking the most important decisions affecting peace and security throughout the world, including in Africa. In a statement made from this rostrum on Thursday, 15 September 2005, during the debate in the High-level Plenary Meeting, His Excellency Mr. François Bozizé, President of the Central African Republic, underlined the extent to which we, the small developing countries, in particular those that have gone through or that are currently going through major conflicts or political crises, need a strong and effective United Nations. The recent history of our country makes clear the extent to which international solidarity, coordinated by the United Nations and its specialized agencies, succeeded in helping us to get back on our feet. After almost a decade of chaos, on 15 March 2003 an upsurge of patriotism enabled us to make a consensus- based transition, and we have benefited from the support, advice and expertise, as well as the financial and material assistance, of all of our external partners. For two years, we were assisted by the United Nations Peacebuilding Support Office in the Central African Republic, the United Nations Development Programme and other specialized agencies, and by our bilateral and multilateral partners, including France, China, the United States of America, the European Union, the International Organization of la Francophonie and, of course, our high-ranking African colleagues, among them the countries of the Central African Economic and Monetary Community, under the chairmanship of El Hadj Omar Bongo Ondimba, President of Gabon. Therefore, the success of our consensus-based transition is to a large extent the success of international solidarity as mobilized by the United Nations. Of course, the national will, expressed first and foremost by the citizens of the Central African Republic at all levels — who are weary of violence and 14 chaos and yearn for peace — and supported by our political elite as reflected in governmental actions by President Bozizé himself, this national will has been the prime factor enabling us to bring our transitional period and electoral process to a successful conclusion. In this sense, and rightly so, the international community has paid unanimous tribute to the wisdom of the Central Africans, who have chosen to return to peace and national concord. But international solidarity was a necessary condition that led us successfully to a consensus-based transition and a successful electoral process. That is why, on behalf of President François Bozizé and the Central African Government and people, I should like to reiterate to all of our partners an expression of our gratitude. As the head of State said in his statement on Thursday, 15 September 2005, the Central African Republic is starting on a second stage in its process of return to peace and security, and that is the stage of reconstruction. This is a tremendous challenge in a country that was ruined and subject to chaos for many years. As Central Africans, we are well aware of our prime responsibility, of our collective responsibility as a nation, for the disaster that our country lived through. If only for that reason, the bulk of the efforts and sacrifices to be made in the reconstruction must fall to us. We are fully convinced of that. But we must honestly admit that in the face of the enormity and complexity of the tasks involved in reconstruction, the need for solidarity is still great. In saying that, we wish simply to recall precedents where the international community understood that the best way to avoid a step backwards was to support reconstruction in a strong way. The real victory over violence and disorder is achieved when extreme poverty, which is the prime cause of the frustrations that lead to confrontation, is rolled back. Successful elections and democratic institutions that begin to function and cope with the country’s problems are certainly an important advance along the lengthy and difficult path toward peace and stability. But all this remains basically precarious, as long as the legitimate expectations of the population are not satisfied and their hope to benefit from the dividends of peace is not realized. How can this be done in a country that has been bled white, that does not even have the minimum required for life, and on which donors impose the same conditions as they do on countries that are functioning normally? How, when a country is painfully emerging from a long period of chaos, can it find the resources to repay the debt so that it can hope to benefit from additional economic assistance? These issues and others face the international community as part of its responsibility for managing the emergence from crisis. This raises the question of the ways and means of consolidating peace to emerge from a period of chaos in order to avoid the risk of a return to square one. The Secretary-General very rightly underlined this in his report. The outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting also mentions that. The creation of a Peace-building Commission is, therefore, very timely. This is a sign that there is uncertainty in conflict management, as to discharge a sick person when convalescence is only just beginning often leads to a relapse. It would be a good thing if this uncertainty could be removed. The moving appeal made by the President of the Transitional Government of Somalia strengthens us in our belief that the best way to avoid relapses, which are very difficult and costly to manage, is to provide strong support for reconstruction. Whenever a country that has plunged into the abyss starts to raise its head again, it is a victory for the whole of humanity, and humanity cannot stand by while one of its members drowns, however small it is. Emergence from a crisis stands, therefore, as a new challenge for the United Nations. It is a matter of creating the conditions under which a country that is starting on the return to peace and stability can avoid tumbling back into a state of chaos. The solution involves, in our opinion, an additional demonstration of solidarity and generosity from its development partners to support the efforts of the convalescing society. Our country is convinced that a lasting return to peace involves the participation of people at all levels of Central African society. The quest for peace and stability is not only the concern of professional politicians. Of course, it is important that politicians work tirelessly to develop arrangements that are in keeping with the national interest and that they avoid any radicalization of their political positions in order to give peace a chance. This is the behaviour Central African politicians have exhibited and it explains to a large extent the peaceful outcome of the consensus- based transitional process and the successful electoral process. 15 But this is not enough to consolidate peace. Those who pay the highest price for the failures of politics must also have their say. Young people, women, peasants, urban employees, private entrepreneurs and the media all have a great interest in being closely involved in efforts and actions aimed at peacebuilding and we should therefore pay tribute to the model of cooperation initiated by the United Nations in the Great Lakes region of Africa. This cooperation, which regularly brings together the heads of State and their ministers as well as various segments of civil society, ensures that discussions related to the quest for peace involve non-politicians as well. This initiative, moreover, has the merit of bringing to the table other countries, either closely or less closely involved in the Great Lakes problems. In fact, no crisis is limited to just one country, there are direct or indirect effects on neighbours. That is why the tremendous work done by Professor Ibrahima Fall should be encouraged and supported. As far as the Central African Republic is concerned, the priorities of the Government of National Reconciliation formed after the election were clearly identified in the Declaration of General Policy presented to the National Assembly in early August by Prime Minister Elie Dote. There are three focal points for the short and medium term. First, the re- establishment of security throughout the whole country; secondly, the control and stabilization of public finances; and thirdly, the rehabilitation and relaunching of various sectors of the national economy, such as the mining industries, lumber, agriculture and livestock. With regard to the first point, it goes without saying that no progress is possible without eradicating the endemic insecurity caused by armed bands, especially those who set up roadblocks. Reconstruction of the security and defence forces, which has already begun, and the re-equipment of those forces are matters that the Government is working to resolve. Subregional cooperation is also an important asset, with the active presence of the multinational force of the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa and operations carried out by forces from the Central African Republic, Cameroon and Chad along their shared borders. In this connection we should pay tribute to the initiative taken by the United Nations Peacebuilding Support Office in Bangui, which organized a meeting of subregional diplomats and defence experts in Yaoundé, from 26 to 27 August. We should also pay tribute to the contribution of France, which is providing the multinational force of the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa with valuable logistical support. Beyond short-term considerations, the major long-term challenges facing the Central African Republic are those of health and education. Education and health care are among the principal objectives of the Millennium Development Goals. The Central African Republic hopes to achieve those Goals by 2015. We know that lasting development cannot be established without strengthening our national capacities. Having suffered in various ways in recent years, the people of the Central African Republic sincerely aspire to peace and stability. They are determined to strive and sacrifice in order to leave the painful past behind. They need the understanding and support of their partners, chief among which is the United Nations.Let me begin by noting that Finland is pleased to see you, Sir, preside over this most crucial of General Assembly sessions. We also salute your predecessor, Jean Ping of Gabon, who worked tirelessly and successfully to strengthen the United Nations and make it more relevant. At the Millennium Summit five years ago, we set a forward-looking and ambitious agenda for the United Nations in the new millennium. Our success there was the result of a unique common political will and an optimistic, can-do spirit. Through the endeavours at the Summit, that spirit was strengthened and deepened among world leaders. We built on that success in Monterrey and Johannesburg. There was hope that the world was moving towards a positive cycle, that all our boats would be lifted and that both new and old threats would be met with a common resolve. The outcome document adopted at the world summit held last week was, in many respects, a step forward. In others, we failed to match the expectations of our peoples. That, however, does not necessarily signal a permanent erosion of our common political will and our common agenda. Rather, I am confident that it was primarily a result of the enormity of the task at hand: to reaffirm the goals agreed upon five years ago, to assess and expedite the progress made since then and to fundamentally reform the United Nations Organization ó all at the same time. We are confident that under your leadership, Mr. President, the General Assembly will be able to make further significant progress at the current session. Let me pledge Finland's full support to you, Sir, as we prepare to assume the presidency of the European Union during the second half of next year. Finland aligns itself with the statement made earlier by the United Kingdom on behalf of the European Union. Let me make just a few additional comments of substance. First, if one were to try to identify the single biggest positive outcome of the momentous process under way at the United Nations since the Secretary- General's 'fork in the road' speech two years ago (see A/58/PV.7), it would probably be the near-universal acceptance of the close linkage between development, security and human rights. Compared with five years ago, we now view all issues in a truly integrated fashion. Above all, it is the broad realization of the 23 pivotal role of the rule of law for both security and development that strikes us as almost revolutionary. I would particularly stress the centrality of the rule of law in promoting sustainable development and sustained economic growth. The solid foundation of the rule of law is needed more than ever if we are to support developing countries in building their national capacity to create wealth and to take off economically. Finland is happy to note the increased attention and resources being devoted within the whole United Nations system to supporting the rule of law and related activities. Much more, however, needs to be done. We must remember that accountability and good governance at the global level start at the national level, by strengthening domestic democratic institutions, internal democratic processes, the rule of law, independent judiciaries and the role of parliaments. It is in those areas that the United Nations can and must assist needy Member States in building their national capacities. Secondly, an area that we would like to see discussed and further elaborated here at the United Nations is the interrelationship between development and social justice. As the United Nations Development Programme's Human Development Report 2005 put it, deep disparities based on wealth, region, gender and ethnicity are bad for growth. The report goes on to add what we already knew, namely, that such disparities are bad for democracy, as well as bad for social cohesion. Thirdly, I would target corruption as a scourge that undermines both the rule of law and social justice. Corruption - the exploitation of a position of influence for private benefit - is a serious obstacle to development. It erodes the foundations of democracy and of viable economic structures. Our own experience shows that a value base that promotes moderation, personal restraint and the common good tends to check corruption. The same goes for legislative, judicial and administrative structures that closely monitor and guard against abuses of power. Other factors contributing to a low level of corruption include the prominence of women in political decision-making and low income disparities within the population. Low corruption often correlates with high economic competitiveness and increased efficiency in governance. I would strongly urge the United Nations and the United Nations system as a whole to redouble their efforts to help Member States fight corruption. It is of the essence if we are to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Fourthly, on the subject of the environment, I would stress the complementarity of the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation and the MDGs. Goal 7, to ensure environmental sustainability, is essential for achieving other MDGs on poverty, health, education and gender equality. The protection and sustainable management of the natural resource base is necessary for development and poverty eradication. All developed countries need to make substantive efforts to prevent the destruction of ecosystems, inter alia, through the promotion of sustainable production and consumption. Those challenges cannot be successfully met without effectively tackling the challenges of climate change and biodiversity loss. To that end, we need to promote energy efficiency, the conservation and wider use of alternative energy sources and technological innovation. We wish to see a rapid initiation of negotiations to develop a more inclusive - and in the longer term more effective - international framework for climate change beyond 2012. We also need a more coherent institutional framework for international environmental governance. As the European Union has previously stated, Finland believes that the creation of a new United Nations specialized agency for the environment - based on the United Nations Environment Programme, but with a revised and strengthened mandate - would best serve that end. The fifth issue I would like to highlight is that of small arms and light weapons, which - like corruption - was identified as one of the priority areas of the Helsinki Process on Globalization and Democracy. That Process, which culminated two weeks ago in the Helsinki Conference, was tasked with coming up with concrete proposals on how to enhance human security across the globe. Reckless trade and badly guarded stockpiles have led to a world awash in small arms and light weapons, where human rights are violated, humanitarian aid looted and economic development halted - at gunpoint. Finland has also called for an end to irresponsible arms trading through better international regulation. The main ideas are to make all arms transfers fully transparent and to establish universally accepted criteria for them. We are of the opinion that those 24 criteria should be strictly enforced, legally binding and firmly founded on human rights considerations. That is why we have supported the initiative to negotiate an arms trade treaty. It is high time to bring the rule of law to the international arms trade. Last but not least, I would join those who have stressed the need for the United Nations to take prompt action towards further management reform. This is an issue which cannot wait, as the very credibility of the Organization is at stake. In the light of recent events related to the Organization, if there is a perception among the public that it is business as usual at the United Nations, we risk undermining the support that the Organization enjoys. It is therefore obvious that an unreformed Organization would be less, not more, relevant, and less, not more, effective. We must stress the rule of law and good governance internally within the United Nations, just as we stress it externally. Reaching common positions and devising joint action at the international level requires patience and persistence, and a willingness to take practical and pragmatic steps. If such an approach is taken, we are confident that the sixtieth session of the General Assembly will be a success. On behalf of President Bush and all of the American people, welcome to New York City. In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, my fellow citizens have experienced the compassion of the United Nations. I want to thank Secretary-General Annan for mobilizing the support of this institution. I also want to thank the representatives of the 126 countries that have offered assistance in our relief efforts. The United States will never forget their generosity in our time of need. In moments of tumultuous historical change, leaders must become architects of a better world. We must survey the new international landscape, lay firm foundations of moral principle and build institutions 8 that reflect our unique moment in history. It is those institutions that enable citizens of conviction to lead us ever closer to the ideals of justice that stir every soul: the universal desire for security, prosperity, liberty and dignity. Sixty years ago was just such a time of transformation. After one of the greatest cataclysms in world history, the United States joined with visionary builders from over 50 countries to create the United Nations. We placed the enduring principles of human rights and fundamental freedoms at the foundation of the United Nations Charter. We built an institution that has helped to support a peaceful world order for six decades. Today, however, with the end of the cold war and the rise of globalization and the emergence of new threats, the very terrain of international politics has shifted beneath our feet. In this new world we must again embrace the challenge of building for the future. The time to reform the United Nations is now. We must seize this opportunity together. Chapter I, Article 1, of the Charter of the United Nations proclaims the four purposes of the United Nations, great aspirations that have stood the test of time. But consider what different forms they take today, in 2005, as opposed to 1945, when they were first declared. The first purpose of the United Nations is to help maintain international peace and security. In 1945 the most serious threats to peace and security emerged between States, and were largely defined by their borders. Today, however, the greatest threats we face emerge within States, and melt through their borders: transnational threats like terrorism and the proliferation of weapons, pandemic disease and trafficking in human beings. The second purpose of this institution, as written in the United Nations Charter, is to develop friendly relations among nations, based on equal rights and the self-determination of all peoples. In 1945, a life of liberty and dignity was more an aspiration than a reality for a majority of the world’s people. Today, however, more nations than ever have enshrined the principles of democracy and human rights — a true moral triumph that will be complete only when all individuals are secure in their basic freedoms. The third purpose of the United Nations is to achieve international cooperation in solving international problems. In 1945, the fear was that strong, aggressive States, eager and able to expand their frontiers with force, would be the primary cause of international problems. Today, however, it is clear that weak and poorly governed States, unwilling or incapable of ruling their countries with justice, are the principal source of global crises, from civil war and genocide to extreme poverty and humanitarian disaster. The final purpose of the United Nations, as the Charter states, is to be a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the attainment of common ends. In 1945, the world’s leaders joined together to build an institutional partnership that could address the shared challenges of their time. Today, faced with the realities of a new world, we must transform the United Nations to meet the shared challenges of our time. The Members of this body must work together to strengthen security in a world threatened by stateless extremists. Today, I call on the nations of the world to ratify the comprehensive convention on terrorism. No cause, no movement and no grievance can justify the intentional killing of innocent civilians and non- combatants. That is unacceptable by any moral standard. It is time for every Member of the United Nations to outlaw acts of international terrorism. We must also work together to promote prosperity and development in a world of great potential. The United States is committed to the Millennium Development Goals. And at the Monterrey Conference three years ago all nations agreed that development must be a two-way street. Donor countries have a responsibility to increase their assistance to developing nations. And developing nations have a responsibility to govern justly, advance economic liberty and invest in their people. The Monterrey Consensus is working. Now is not the time to revert to old, failed thinking about development. Countries representing three quarters of the developing world’s population are on a pace to meet the targets of the Millennium Declaration by 2015. And, as President Bush said on Wednesday, the United States is prepared to take new action to accelerate this progress: we will eliminate all tariffs and subsidies that distort free trade — as other nations do the same. Members of the United Nations must work together as well to support democracy in a world of expanding liberty. To advance this common purpose, in 9 2004 President Bush proposed the creation of a democracy fund. With the broad support of this body, we have made it a reality. The Fund is now receiving donations in cash and in kind from countries large and small that wish to help other nations lay the foundations of democracy. Showing its leadership as the world’s largest democracy, India made the generous opening pledge of $10 million. Now, to be sure, when speaking about democracy, the United States has every reason for humility. After all, it was only in my lifetime that America guaranteed the right to vote for all its citizens. Obviously, the path to democracy is long and imperfect and different for every nation. But the principles of democracy are universal, as is the desire for them. And the United Nations must support every country that embraces the challenge of self-government. In Afghanistan, Iraq, Lebanon, the Palestinian territories and throughout the world, peoples who want to build democracy deserve our help. The many goals we share are great indeed. And the United Nations has a major role to play in their achievement. But for this institution to become an engine of change in the twenty-first century, it must now change itself. The United Nations must launch a lasting revolution of reform. The United Nations summit declaration (resolution 60/1), which every head of State endorsed this week, expresses a global consensus on the fact that reform is imperative. I want to thank former General Assembly President Ping for his tireless hard work. Our challenge now, under President Eliasson’s leadership, is to enact the vital reforms that will make the United Nations more accountable to its Members, more suited to new challenges and more faithful to its founding purposes. The United States welcomes the commitment of all leaders to establish a new Peacebuilding Commission. Now, we must embrace the difficult task of implementing that vision. A Peacebuilding Commission should plan for post-conflict missions before crises erupt. And it must help to coordinate reconstruction efforts after the fighting stops. In a world threatened by civil strife, the United Nations needs to be better prepared to help countries rebuild in the aftermath of conflict. We are also pleased that the world’s leaders have recognized the importance of establishing a new Human Rights Council. But it will take a lot of hard work in the coming months to realize that goal. The Human Rights Council must have fewer members, less politics and more credibility. And it should never, never, empower brutal dictatorships to sit in judgement of responsible democracies. The Human Rights Council must have the moral authority to condemn all violators of human rights, even those that sit among us in this Hall. Finally, we welcome the promise of the world’s leaders to make the United Nations a more effective and a more principled institution. As President Bush said on Wednesday (see A/60/PV.2), the United Nations must stand for integrity and live by the high standards it sets for others. For the United Nations to champion democracy more legitimately, we must increase the transparency and the accountability of this institution. For the United Nations to promote prosperity more credibly, tougher ethics rules and greater internal oversight are needed to ensure the highest professional standards. And to make the United Nations relevant to the challenges of today, the purpose and the performance of all United Nations programmes must be reviewed thoroughly, consistently and comprehensively. Our fellow citizens deserve a United Nations that commands their respect and is worthy of their hard- earned tax dollars. In a democracy, leaders must be able to justify that their people’s money is indeed being well spent. Real progress on those fundamental reforms will prove that the United Nations can address greater issues of change, in particular the reform of the Security Council. We want that important body to reflect the world as it is in 2005, not as it was in 1945. The United States is open to expanding the Security Council. We have long supported a permanent seat for Japan. And we believe that developing countries deserve greater representation on that body. All this would make for a more effective Security Council. And the Security Council must be effective. It must be able to deal with great challenges such as terrorism and nuclear proliferation, especially when it faces real threats and when countries such as Iran threaten the effectiveness of the global non- proliferation regime. When diplomacy has been 10 exhausted, the Security Council must become involved. Questions about Iran’s nuclear activities remain unanswered, despite repeated efforts by the International Atomic Energy Agency. And after agreeing to negotiate with Europe, Iran unilaterally walked away from the talks and restarted its nuclear programmes. Iran should return to the negotiations with the European Union three and abandon forever its plans for a nuclear-weapons capability. The experience of recent years has reinforced the universal truth that international institutions are only as strong and effective and relevant as their members choose to make them. The United Nations is no different. The United States believes in a United Nations that is strong and effective. And we have ambitious hopes for its future. So in this year, as the United Nations marks its sixtieth anniversary, let us recommit ourselves to principled action. Let us embrace the same spirit of creation that moved the builders and leaders of 1945. And let us reform this great institution to meet the challenges of a new era.It gives me great pleasure at the outset to extend to you, Mr. President, our congratulations upon your election to the presidency of this sixtieth session of the General Assembly. We wish you every success in discharging your functions. I would also like to extend thanks and appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, for his valuable efforts in conducting the work of the Assembly’s fifty-ninth session, especially his efforts to reach a consensus on the final document of the world summit of 2005. I would also like to thank His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, for his tireless efforts to strengthen the role of our international Organization. World leaders who met at United Nations Headquarters to follow up on the outcome of the Millennium Summit and the coordinated and integrated implementation and follow-up of the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits in the social, economic and related fields have managed to adopt a document that calls for implementing reforms in the United Nations and for taking bolder collective steps to combat poverty, achieve development, establish international security and uphold human rights. The world today is experiencing extremely difficult economic conditions which pose a real threat to the process of social and economic development in the developing countries, especially the least developed countries, and pose a major threat to the development of their peoples. That situation is the result of such factors as a decline in official development assistance; unfair international terms of trade; the imposition of restrictions on the access of their exports to world markets; unfair prices for their commodity exports; a heavy external debt burden; and the adverse effects of globalization. Despite the progress made in many fields of international cooperation, the problems of hunger, poverty and such diseases as AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis have taken on horrific dimensions and continue to pose major challenges to the international community. Unless the latter makes concerted efforts to accelerate equitable development in the developing countries, especially the least developed countries, the Millennium Goal of halving poverty by 2015 will remain elusive. The international community, by resolving, at the Millennium Summit, to declare war on poverty by launching an ongoing campaign to make the right to development a reality for all peoples, has made an implicit commitment to creating a social, economic and political environment in the developing countries, especially the least developed countries, that would be more favourable to the translation into concrete reality of the right to development for all of their peoples. That would provide cohesion and equitable social integration for their societies as well as a real opportunity to eradicate poverty, enabling them to enjoy full, productive and gainful employment. The international community also resolved at the Millennium Summit to seek to achieve a fair and just globalization that embraces everyone, in order to spare the developing countries, especially the least developed countries, the danger of being marginalized within the international economy. At the Millennium Summit, world leaders affirmed that international cooperation was the most important factor in making the world a better place to live in. They also affirmed that free trade, liberalization of the economy and interdependence are the best means to accelerate equitable economic development in the developing countries. The international community is at a critical stage of the negotiations related to the Doha Development Agenda. Those negotiations made concrete progress last year in some difficult and controversial areas. Agreement was reached on the launching of negotiations regarding the question of trade concessions, one of the four questions which were left, 38 by agreement, outside the scope of the Doha Programme of Action: investment, competition, trade and environment and trade concessions. However, that agreement by the developed countries was, regrettably, conditional on the non-holding of negotiations on the other three questions. We are looking forward to the achievement of solid, ambitious progress at the sixth World Trade Organization Conference in Hong Kong, and we hope that we will be able to conclude negotiations in 2006. The developing countries have fulfilled their pledges, and we hope that the upcoming negotiations regarding the implementation of the outcome of this summit will translate into reality the global partnership for the achievement of the internationally agreed development goals. We hope that the right to development will become a living reality and that the developed countries will honour their pledges, including increasing official development assistance to 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product, and will accelerate the process of forgiving the external debt of all poor countries. We have often stated that peace in the Middle East can be achieved only through the implementation of the resolutions of the Security Council and of the General Assembly. All of those resolutions recognize the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, foremost among which is the right to self-determination and to the establishment of their independent State on their national soil, with Al-Quds as its capital; withdrawal from the occupied Golan Heights up to the border of 4 June 1967; and full withdrawal from the rest of the Lebanese territories still under occupation. On that basis, the international mediation process produced the road map, which affirms the principle of land for peace and calls for the withdrawal of Israel from the occupied territories and the establishment of the State of Palestine. The Arab summit, meeting in Beirut in March 2002, endorsed an international initiative calling for the normalization of relations between the Arab States and Israel in return for Israel’s withdrawal to the 1967 border. The Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip is an important and positive first step, which, we hope, will be followed by similar steps in all the Palestinian territories and the other occupied Arab territories, in accordance with internationally binding resolutions and the relevant initiatives and agreements, in order to bring about stability, security and a comprehensive and just peace for all States and peoples of the region. I cannot fail to mention the difficult conditions experienced by the fraternal Iraqi people. We hope that the new constitution will embody the hopes and aspirations of the Iraqi people and contribute to the establishment of security and stability in the country. We hope also that it will take into consideration the interests of all segments of the Iraqi population, that all the people will feel that they all are part of the established system, and that the unity and the national identity of Iraq will be preserved. Believing as it does in the great importance of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to international peace and security, the State of Qatar has acceded to the Treaty and calls from this rostrum on all States to do so. It also seeks to transform the Middle East region into a zone that is totally free from all kinds of weapons of mass destruction. My country has unambiguously condemned terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. It has also supported all Security Council resolutions related to the question of terrorism, and it has cooperated with the international community in implementing those agreements. However, we feel that success in eradicating that phenomenon requires that we deal with its underlying causes, including the social, economic and political aspects that provide a fertile breeding ground for terrorism. We also support the idea of convening an international conference on terrorism and of drawing up an international strategy to combat it. In that context, we feel that defining terrorism and clearly distinguishing it from the struggle waged by peoples in exercise of their legitimate right to defend their freedom and enjoy self-determination must be the most important norm and enjoy international consensus. This is a right that is enshrined in all international norms and practices. Our world today more than ever needs a comprehensive authority and frame of reference that is qualified to perform its role as an international instrument; one that seeks to achieve international cooperation in resolving international problems of a social and economic nature, as well as consolidating security and stability, maintaining international peace, 39 and enhancing respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all. Moreover, we must earnestly seek to respect this global diversity, protect it and allow it to prosper. Hence, we feel that the proposal to establish a standing Human Rights Council, with a smaller membership, to be elected by a two-thirds majority only, merits further study in serious intergovernmental negotiations, with a view to achieving consensus on the establishment of the proposed Council, its membership, its mandate, and the organ destined to be its parent body, which we hope will be the General Assembly. We must commit ourselves to human rights, as enshrined in the United Nations Charter, and we must fully comply with internationally recognized human rights standards. The question of expanding the Security Council and the concept of collective security require further study and intergovernmental negotiations so as to arrive at a consensus on these important questions. In this context, we support the Secretary-General on the question of reforming the United Nations Secretariat for the reasons indicated in his report entitled “In Larger Freedom”. However, we feel that any proposals to reform the Secretariat are extremely important and must be the subject of careful study, discussion and negotiation by the General Assembly.At the outset, allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. I am confident that your experience in multilateral diplomacy, coupled with a positive approach, will serve as a guarantee of success for the outcome of your decisions. Ahead of us lie demanding tasks related to the implementation of the reform decisions that have been adopted. I wish to assure that you can fully rely on Slovakia's support in that regard. I wish also to convey our solidarity to the United States citizens devastated by Hurricane Katrina, who are struggling to recover from the trauma of losing their loved ones and their homes. On behalf of the people and the Government of Slovakia, I extend heartfelt sympathy to the families of the victims who perished in that natural disaster. We are gathered here in this forum because the challenges faced by humankind in the area of global development, security and protection of human rights bring us together in our search for common solutions that call for clear political decisions. There is a general understanding that the United Nations, in its current shape and form, is not up to the challenges that lie ahead of it in the twenty-first century. Accordingly, we must follow through with the necessary changes so that this Organization may continue to fulfil its role efficiently while keeping abreast of the growing needs and expectations of the international community. The Secretary-General has submitted his plan, which contains a package of bold reform steps laying down ways for the international community to deal with current issues and upgrade the United Nations system. Since the very day on which it was published, Slovakia has believed that his plan provides an excellent basis for our deliberations. We endorse the premise that progress in tackling the most important global problems can only be achieved if the issues of development, security and human rights are addressed jointly. In particular, we welcome the fact that human rights are accorded the same priority as development and security, and we appreciate the relevant proposals to strengthen the international system for the protection of human rights. The reform of the United Nations is not a matter to be dealt with by the Organization alone, as responsibility for reaching concrete consensus on key issues lies primarily in the hands of the Governments of Member States. Reaching agreement that accommodates the interests of the entire world is no easy task. This yearís summit and its outcome document have forced us to look in the mirror. They have shown us the amount of vision, wisdom and courage that we were able and willing to bring to this task, with a view to fundamentally reforming the system of multilateral cooperation in the interest of global development. The image we saw reflected in the mirror was not to everyoneís liking, but that is the nature of multilateral diplomacy. It is the result of compromise, the art of the possible, which is both its strong and its weak point. In that connection, I prefer taking a forward-looking approach with regard to the outcome document, which contains messages and ideas that deserve our support in the General Assembly. Let us try to go ahead with its implementation as best we can. 22 Despite the considerable progress achieved - primarily in the fight against poverty and famine in Asia - all reports draw attention to the extremely alarming and unacceptable downturn in several parts of Africa. Slovakia came to the summit with the understanding that our first priority was to make progress in achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). In my view, the outcome document provides a solid basis for our future work in that regard. Slovakia has not been inactive in that respect. The amount of public funds appropriated for foreign aid has quadrupled since the year 2000, which speaks for itself. In addition, having joined the European Union in May 2004, Slovakia also joined the common European development aid system. As a new member of the Union, Slovakia pledged to do its utmost to increase its official development assistance to 0.17 per cent of gross domestic product by 2010, and to 0.33 per cent by 2015. Slovakia is directly funding and implementing more than 70 projects in the poor countries of Europe, Asia and Africa. That gives us the opportunity to directly pass on to developing countries the unique knowledge that we acquired during our own countryís transition. In addition to favouring an increase in aid, Slovakia also supports further reform of trade relations as well as debt relief for poor countries. I wish to highlight the serious debt relief measures that Slovakia took earlier this year, forgiving several hundred million dollars in debt owed by heavily indebted poor countries. Slovakia welcomes efforts aimed at liberalizing trade as a means to promote economic growth and development. We therefore join the call for an expeditious completion of the World Trade Organizationís Doha round of negotiations. At this point, I must mention that one of the most serious global threats is the escalation of terrorism. It is commendable that the outcome document clearly denounces this new plague of our time, which endangers the population of rich and poor countries alike. Slovakia has clearly opposed all forms of violence and expressions of blind fanaticism and hatred. During the summit, in order to demonstrate Slovakiaís position, I personally signed the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, which is the latest in a series of anti-terrorist international treaty instruments. Slovakia is also a signatory to all 12 United Nations anti- terrorism conventions. Slovakia strongly supports the comprehensive strategy to fight terrorism presented by Secretary-General Kofi Annan at the Madrid Conference in March 2005. I must say that Slovakia had expected that the summit would have formulated a clear definition of terrorism, which is an important prerequisite for the adoption of a comprehensive anti-terrorism convention. While we did not achieve that, it is nevertheless imperative that we redouble our efforts to draft such a convention in order that it can still be adopted during this sixtieth session. The outcome document will serve as a good starting point for that effort. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction continues to represent the most serious threat to global security. It is therefore regrettable that the outcome document leaves us with more questions than answers. As a member of the Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Slovakia recognizes the right to the peaceful use of nuclear energy without the possibility of misusing that technology to produce nuclear arms. We therefore believe that in order to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons it is crucial to strengthen the supervisory competencies of the IAEA and to control more effectively the stages in the nuclear fuel cycle that involve uranium enrichment and plutonium processing. However, such restrictions must take account of the right of countries that fully satisfy their treaty obligations to obtain energy from nuclear power. Slovakia supported the proposal to set up a Human Rights Council as a permanent principal body of the United Nations. The Human Rights Council should follow up on all the positive and constructive features of the existing Human Rights Commission. Members of the Human Rights Council should be elected by a two-thirds majority of the General Assembly. The Slovak Republic is in favour of the Council being composed of a small number of members in order to give it the necessary flexibility in responding to emerging problems. Slovakia supported the proposal to elect members of the Council on a regional basis, and from countries that demonstrably meet their commitments concerning the protection of human rights. Slovakia also encourages closer 23 interactions between the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Human Rights Council and the Security Council. In that context, we welcome the proposal in the summitís outcome document to strengthen the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. We were also pleased to note that, for the first time, the outcome document contains a broader definition of the principle of the responsibility to protect. Slovakia looks forward to further work in that regard. We believe that after Cambodia, Rwanda, the Sudan and Srebrenica, we are slowly entering a stage where we take on more direct responsibility for dealing with situations where genocide and war crimes are committed. The principle of sovereignty means that responsibility for people lies with each sovereign country and its Government. However, if a particular Government fails to live up to that responsibility, the international community has the obligation to take all necessary steps and use all available and necessary means to prevent a major humanitarian disaster. Slovakia was very much in favour of the proposal to set up a Peacebuilding Commission. Experience shows us that we must not rush to leave a country that has just seen the end of a conflict and simply turn our backs on the whole situation. Our recent history has provided us several bad examples in that regard. We must strengthen our efforts with a view to setting up an effective Peacebuilding Commission in the shortest amount of time possible. The outcome document sets out clear parameters and a timeframe for its establishment. I mentioned at the outset that it is essential to realign the United Nations with the reality of our modern era. In that regard, it is essential to further revitalize the General Assembly. We must also reform the Economic and Social Council so as to make it capable of effectively implementing the development agenda of the United Nations. With respect to reorganizing the Secretariat, we are in favour of increasing the flexibility, and strengthening the authority of, the Secretary-General in his managerial functions as the head of the Organization, in order to enable him to keep abreast of the current needs of the United Nations. He must be given the necessary resources to perform his role. At the same time, it will be necessary to strengthen the independence and powers of internal supervisory bodies in order to ensure more transparency and accountability inside the Organization. Of course, all the reforms will require appropriate funding in order not to dissipate the efforts that were necessary to reach consensus. Among the reforms that have enjoyed Slovakia's long-standing support is the reform of the Security Council. This is an issue on which, despite ongoing efforts, we were unable to reach a balanced agreement. We need a more democratic and more representative Security Council that better reflects todayís new geopolitical situation. The Security Council should be enlarged in both categories of membership by adding countries that play an important role in the global arena and in the United Nations framework. It is vital that an enlarged Council retain its effectiveness with regard to decision-making. We intend to actively support the transition process in Iraq with a view to creating a secure, stable, united, prosperous and democratic country, in accordance with Security Council resolutions. As we declared at the International Conference on Iraq, held on 22 June 2005 in Brussels, Slovakia has decided to forgive $1.13 billion of Iraq's debt as a tangible contribution to that end. We are confident that the Iraqi people will use the October referendum to show their support for the new Constitution, and that democratic parliamentary elections will follow. Stabilizing the western Balkans remains a priority on my countryís foreign policy agenda. Slovakia has thus far supported the engagement of the United Nations in the region by participating in peacekeeping and stabilization missions in the Balkans. In our opinion, the pivotal issue with regard to the stabilization of the Western Balkans is the future status of Kosovo, which remains a potential element of instability in the region. We denounce all acts of violence and intolerance inside the province. We believe that the majority of Kosovars aspire to peace, democracy and development. In particular, we appreciate the activities of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General, Kai Eide. Slovakia has been approved as the candidate of the Group of Eastern European States for a non- permanent seat in the Security Council in the elections to be held at this session of the General Assembly. Slovakia has never been a member of the Security Council, although it has taken an active part in United 24 Nations peacekeeping efforts through its participation in operations in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. If elected to membership in that important body, the Slovak Republic will enter the Security Council at a dynamic moment characterized by a changing global environment and by the search for a new security consensus. New threats to security represent growing challenges to the ability of the international system to maintain international peace and security. That development will therefore also be a challenge for our country in its capacity as a member of the Security Council, in particular because it will test our readiness to shoulder greater commitment and responsibility for stability and security around the world. I want to assure the Assembly that Slovakia is ready to take on this important assignment with honour and responsibility.Allow me at the outset to congratulate the President on his well-deserved election to preside over the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. The session that he is chairing is special because of its scope and the importance of its issues, particularly in view of the unfinished mandates and unfulfilled hopes of the 2005 summit. We cannot conceal our dissatisfaction with the summit’s outcome. In some areas, such as development and human rights, the outcome document reflects less than the international community’s least common denominator. In others, such as disarmament and impunity, the final document is a real step back. Nevertheless, this does not mean that we should neglect our commitment to the reform of the United Nations. We must avoid past mistakes in order to ensure the success of the next round of negotiations. The General Assembly must set realistic goals, avoiding expectations that cannot be met or accepting artificial deadlines that create undue pressure on the negotiations and must not be distracted by secondary issues. The negotiation process must be open, inclusive and transparent, so that all States may be free to participate and contribute actively. We must not yield to the temptation of creating closed negotiating groups that can make private and non-transparent arrangements. We must prevent small groups of States from imposing their own national ambitions upon others. The Secretariat must remain totally impartial. And finally, we must see to it that decisions are made by democratic means in conformity with the rules of procedure. Such principles must be borne in mind particularly when we consider the possible reform of the Security Council. In the last few months, we devoted a disproportionate amount of time and effort to the question of Security Council reform, to the detriment of other equally important issues. During the present Assembly session, we must give equal emphasis to the Human Rights Council, the Peacebuilding Commission and the negotiation of the comprehensive convention on terrorism, in addition to the reform of the Security Council. We deem it necessary to revitalize the Working Group on the reform of the Security Council so that we may work together towards a consensus solution. We reaffirm our commitment to Security Council reform in order to make it more democratic and more transparent and effective, on the basis of the principles of sovereign equality among States, rotation, periodic elections and accountability. Therefore, we cannot accept having new permanent members which, due to their permanent status, cannot he held to account and which cannot be replaced if their performance is found wanting. We would only favour an increase in the number of non-permanent members of the Council, with a possibility of re-election. At the same time, we support reforming the Security Council’s working methods so that it may be more responsive to the requirements and needs of the great majority of Member States. It is indispensable to limit the undemocratic instrument of the veto, which erodes the legitimacy and effectiveness of the Council. The veto is unacceptable, especially in cases of genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and massive violations of human rights. Regrettably, the proposal to eliminate the veto in such cases was not included in the summit’s outcome. This question will have to be reconsidered in the coming months in the context of Security Council reform. We should focus also on the accountability of the Security Council to the broader membership. Insofar as the Council acts on behalf of all Member States, it should submit special reports to the General Assembly, pursuant to Article 24, paragraph 3, of the Charter, every time that it establishes or substantially modifies the mandate of a peacekeeping mission, every time that it imposes sanctions or other measures of general application under Chapter VII of the Charter, and every time that a draft resolution is vetoed. The General Assembly should consider such reports with a view to further action when necessary. 17 Furthermore, the Security Council must adopt measures to ensure full respect for human rights and, in particular, the right to due process of persons included on lists of sanctions committees. The work of the Security Council must serve as an example of the highest standards of human rights and due process at the international level. My delegation wholeheartedly supports all efforts to strengthen the international mechanisms for the promotion and protection of human rights. We fully support the idea of transforming the Commission on Human Rights into a Human Rights Council. We had hoped that the outcome document would contain specific provisions on the structure and mandate of the new Council. In their absence, we should devote the next few months to designing this new institution. We particularly deem it necessary to ensure that the composition of the new Council reflects an equitable geographical distribution and that its mandate may favour expert consideration of issues, avoiding unnecessary politicization. It is also necessary to draw a distinction between the mandate of the new Council and the work of the General Assembly’s Third Committee. We support the idea to increase substantially the budget of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. We are greatly interested in the idea of submitting a single report to all of the monitoring mechanisms established under the various human rights treaties. In order to protect persons with disabilities, we believe it necessary to conclude as soon as possible the convention on protection and promotion of the rights and dignity of persons with disabilities. In the next few months, this General Assembly should also devote itself to the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission. In our view, this new Commission should be a subsidiary body of the General Assembly, maintaining an appropriate functional relationship with the Security Council. Its members, we believe, should be elected, and the body should be open to all States that are making an effective contribution to peace. Therefore, we are opposed to having permanent members of the Security Council automatically become members of the new Commission. Such an unjustifiable privilege would be one more example of the cascade effect. Similarly, we are opposed to extending the right of veto to the work of the new Commission. We believe that in its decision-making the Commission should apply the rules of procedure of the General Assembly. We are convinced that the United Nations should play a key role in the efforts to fight international terrorism. Pursuant to the summit’s outcome document, in the coming months the General Assembly should design a comprehensive strategy against terrorism and adopt concrete measures to strengthen and enhance coordination in the Organization on this matter. In this context, we would like to repeat the proposal made last year by the President of Costa Rica, His Excellency Mr. Abel Pacheco de la Espriella, to create a United Nations High Commissioner on Terrorism, as an independent, professional and permanent mechanism at the heart of the Secretariat to ensure greater coordination and better use of the resources available at the global level to fight terrorism. We also support the conclusion of the comprehensive convention on international terrorism by the end of this year. That draft convention already contains a technical and precise definition of the crime of terrorism, which will enhance judicial and police cooperation on the basis of the principle of “prosecute or extradite”. We highlight the importance of law and justice in international relations, and thus we reaffirm our confidence in the International Court of Justice as the best mechanism for the peaceful settlement of disputes. Thus, we urge all nations to accept, without any conditions, the jurisdiction of the Court. We call upon States that may have entered reservations in their declarations of acceptance of the jurisdiction of the Court to withdraw them. We reaffirm our support for the International Criminal Court as an indispensable mechanism to prevent and punish the most serious crimes against mankind. We are particularly pleased at the fact that the delegation of Costa Rica will in the next few months preside over the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute. This year’s negotiations on disarmament and non- proliferation have yielded unsatisfactory results. In particular, we believe that the General Assembly should begin preparations for the review conference of the United Nations Programme of Action to Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, which will be held in mid-2006. That conference 18 should incorporate, in the implementation of its Programme of Action, a human rights perspective and the six global principles of the draft framework convention on international arms transfers. Regarding development, we reiterate our appeal to implement the Millennium Development Goals and urge developed countries to fulfil their commitments to allocate 0.7 per cent of their gross national product to development assistance and to do away with all barriers and subsidies that have a negative impact on the exports of developing countries. Specific measures must be adopted to enhance prevention and assistance in case of natural disasters. In this context, I would like to recall that the Sachs report identified Central America and the Caribbean as the region with the highest vulnerability indices to natural disasters. Similarly, it is indispensable to bear in mind the importance of economically sustainable development. In this context, I would like to highlight the initiative of creating a “Rainforest Coalition”, led by Costa Rica and Papua New Guinea, with a view to protecting all forests and ensuring payment for the environmental services that they provide. We must recall that tropical forests benefit mankind as a whole by sequestering the carbon dioxide produced by industry. Unfortunately, the Kyoto Protocol does not provide incentives to developing countries to protect primary tropical forests. We believe that this omission in the Kyoto Protocol must be remedied. Regarding management, and with a view to safeguarding the unique legitimacy of this Organization, we deem it indispensable to strengthen the United Nations monitoring and inspection mechanisms, and we request that the General Assembly consider in depth the recommendations of the Volcker report. It is indispensable to face with absolute transparency the cases of mismanagement and alleged corruption that have surfaced within the Organization in recent months. We believe that the General Assembly should seriously consider the question of the representation of the Republic of China on Taiwan in the United Nations. There is no doubt that the Republic of China on Taiwan could contribute to the work of the Organization. Incorporating the Republic of China on Taiwan into the community of nations is also necessary so that it may fully assume the rights and duties that arise from the various legal regimes of global governance in areas as varied as collective security, development assistance, the fight against terrorism, sustainable development and the various international health mechanisms. I would like to conclude by reiterating Costa Rica’s unconditional commitment to the principles and purposes of the Organization, reaffirming our faith in the United Nations as the principle instrument of the international community to maintain peace, and renewing our full confidence in the Organization’s capability to promote human rights and the well-being of all peoples.At this crucial moment, when it is debating questions vital to the United Nations and all humanity, the General Assembly has unanimously decided to elect you, Mr. President, to preside over the deliberations of its sixtieth session. I therefore congratulate you very warmly and offer you my best wishes for success. I also congratulate your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, and thank the Secretary-General for his efforts for peace, development and agreement among nations. Our world has been radically transformed since the end of the cold war — that sombre period that still has continuing effects. New threats have appeared, while other, older ones remain. New kinds of challenges loom, even as the international community is falling behind in finding appropriate responses to existing challenges, which are getting worse. New conflicts are erupting violently today, while the international community still struggles with the flashpoints that appeared following the Second World War, as well as those that arose out of the ensuing process of decolonization. Humanitarian disasters, whether man-made or natural, and the problems of refugees, famine, the AIDS pandemic and malaria, exacerbated by persistent underdevelopment have contributed more than ever to stretch beyond strictly military issues our definition of collective security, which our Organization, since its birth, has been asked to promote. The mission to protect remains today an unattainable goal. A vital threat seen daily throughout the world is the growing threat of international terrorism, which respects no borders and violates the most fundamental human rights. It is not enough to vigorously denounce the killing of innocent victims. To combat terrorism, we must oppose it with relentless determination. In that context, there is no alternative to resolute international cooperation that recognizes, above all, that an effective response to transnational terrorism is necessarily a collective effort. Algeria believes it urgent to implement existing agreements on the fight against terrorism and to conclude a comprehensive convention on terrorism that can overcome the difficulties in reaching an agreed definition of terrorism while not providing pretexts for the oppression of peoples seeking to realize their legitimate rights. Active cooperation has been long awaited, but it is not sufficient. Bilateral, regional and multilateral cooperation must be expanded and improved as we strengthen international legal instruments, such as the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, adopted last April. At the same time, given the justifiable revulsion terrorism provokes, we must guard against attributing such acts to any religion or civilization. On the contrary, we must emphasize that the aspiration to peace and the search for agreement and exchange 13 among peoples are values common to the various civilizations we represent. That leads us to express our complete rejection of terrorism and spurs our collective reaction against it. We cannot hide our concern at growing intolerance and the echoes we sometimes hear of pseudo-theories and false analyses that show ever less restraint in directly blaming Islam, which, for the overwhelming majority of a billion believers, is a religion that calls for fraternity, solidarity and tolerance. To blame Islam - as some small but influential groups do - is to forget that before terrorism was recognized as an international phenomenon, it also struck, in particular, at Muslims who had rejected the perpetrators and denied their claims that they represented all Muslims. I strongly reaffirm that those criminals have placed themselves outside Islam and have no claim to it. I say this on behalf of a country that has suffered a decade of terrorism and which has found precisely in its religion the endurance and the will to triumph over barbarism, staunch its wounds, renew its hope and take the path of reconciliation and brotherhood, which are at the very heart of the community of people and its leaders, as we approach the national referendum of 29 September. Although the situation today confirms some of our earlier doubts and concerns, our only concern now is to see the people of Iraq — the heirs to an ancient civilization that is admired by the whole world — return to peace and stability through the recovery of its full and complete sovereignty over a territory whose integrity is best preserved by exorcising the divisive demons generated by the present circumstances. The Arab world is today the site of promising developments for the development of democracy and economic prosperity for its people. It would be wrong to see in these developments merely a response to external pressure. First and foremost, it comes from peoples wishing to participate, finally and actively, in their future, and who are eager to make their specific contribution to the conduct of affairs in a world where nothing that happens should be alien to them. This desire for reform brought the Arab heads of State together in Algiers, last March for a summit meeting, over which we were honoured to preside. Reaffirming that desire, the leaders made firm commitments and we have proceeded to implement them. As diverse as the Arab countries may be in their political, economic and social realities, we still have the same aspiration, which is bearing us towards a future of peace and progress to be shared by all if possible. In other words, we are fully aware that no peace and no sustainable economic momentum can be built in the Middle East unless the Palestinian people recover their full and complete sovereignty in the occupied territories, including Al-Quds Al-Sharif, capital of their independent State. It is a positive thing that the risks of nuclear proliferation have received heightened international attention in the last few years. The seventh Conference to review the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty held last May should have provided us with a special occasion to develop and adopt appropriate measures to deal with the problem on a consensual basis. However, we must note that our expectation was not met, particularly with respect to the 13 measures on nuclear disarmament agreed to at the preceding Conference. Algeria, which has adopted and supported the Additional Protocol on the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards regime, also fully supports total and complete disarmament, as well as the total elimination of weapons of mass destruction. But we cannot conceal our concern that an exception to the treaty that has been tolerated, even allowed, in a region as riven by conflict as the Middle East only further underscores the discriminatory approach that prevails with respect to non-proliferation. The African landscape has been profoundly transformed since the formation of the African Union and the launching of the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). So it is with new energy that Africa, having established its Peace and Security Council, has decided to tackle the conflicts that afflict it and to take up the resolute promotion of their final settlement. Anyone who looks at Africa objectively cannot ignore the endemic diseases, all of the visible and latent crises, the natural and man-made disasters, the famine and illiteracy. But today’s Africa, we must note, has never had so many democratically elected regimes and so many economies undergoing promising reforms. Much still needs to be done, and the African countries are the first to recognize that. Out of a sense of solidarity and also out of self- interest, developed countries should accompany Africa in its determination to make a radical change in its circumstances so as to allow the African continent to 14 become part of the world economy, gain prosperity and make its contribution to the prosperity of the world in general. This cannot be done unless we take specific actions that have been amply identified by NEPAD, by the Commission for Africa established by Tony Blair and by the report of the Secretary-General of our Organization. As you know, the main points are to erase the debt and raise official development assistance (ODA) from the current $25 billion to $50 billion and then to $75 billion between now and 2010, to establish an international finance facility and to raise ODA from the developed countries to 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product by 2015. It is also in Africa, near Algeria, that we still see one of the last remaining uncompleted processes of decolonization. I am referring to the conflict in the Western Sahara, where Morocco and the Polisario Front are adversaries. The United Nations has identified this territory as being non-autonomous, and it is a situation that is actionable under the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. There is a peace plan that has been approved unanimously by the Security Council, calling for a framework and modalities for a final settlement through a free consultation of the Saharawi people regarding their destiny. My country believes that the Baker Plan is the only framework able to lead to a settlement of the conflict, which pits Moroccans against the Polisario. Algeria fully supports the efforts of the United Nations to this end. We are pleased in this respect to see Mr. Peter van Walsum appointed as Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General and we assure him of our support in his mission, just as we do the new Special Representative of the Secretary-General for the Western Sahara. Resolving the conflict in the Western Sahara in keeping with norms of international legality and within the framework of the United Nations would have the positive effect of giving critical momentum to the building of the Greater Arab Maghreb, which Algeria has always called for. We can only agree with the Secretary-General when he puts development at the centre of his concept of a new international economic order and gives it priority attention within the United Nations agenda. A few days ago, Member States evaluated progress made since the September 2000 adoption of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and we must admit that the results are not that encouraging, the case of Africa being rather instructive. With regard to the implementation of the eight goals of the 2000 Declaration, we would say that some of them, such as poverty reduction, have been deferred to a dangerously remote future. The requirement of adapting to new international realities makes reform an obligation for our Organization. Such reform must be thoroughgoing and balanced and serve and preserve the interests of as many as possible. We cannot just have specific amendments for the ambitions of a small number of Members, legitimate though those ambitions may be. The reforms to be undertaken must, above all, satisfy the majority and serve the collective interests and common aspirations of all. The special attention given to the expansion of the Security Council is certainly justified, given the dominant role played by the Council in maintaining international peace and security, but we must not let this cause us to lose sight of the legitimate demands of Africa, nor of the need to maintain balance among the various bodies. Given the fact that most of the African countries were excluded from the Conference for the United Nations at San Francisco because they were colonies, it would be paradoxical, anachronistic and ineffective if developing countries were now invited to validate reform proposals that ignore their interests and concerns. In this exercise that we are undertaking under the watchful eye of our peoples, let us work together and embrace a common vision that will ensure a future of peace and prosperity shared by the Member States that the United Nations has the duty to guarantee.Because of the constraints on our time, I shall omit several paragraphs of my statement, the full text of which has been distributed to delegations. The President, the Prime Minister and the people of Timor-Leste have conveyed to the people and the Government of the United States our profound sympathy for the people of the Gulf states, in particular the people of the city of New Orleans, who were the victims of Hurricane Katrina. President George W. Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice have spoken touching words of gratitude in recognition of the outpouring of sympathy from so many nations. We must remember that the United States Administration and the American people were among the first and most generous to respond to the tsunami tragedy that befell the peoples living on the borders of the Indian Ocean on 26 December last year. Only a little more than three years ago, the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, handed over power to our elected President. Since then, we have made real progress in nation-building, peacebuilding, economic development, national reconciliation and enhancing relations with our neighbours. Timor-Leste has acceded to the seven main international human rights instruments, and my Government is committed to fulfilling its obligations. We were among the first in the world to pioneer a streamlined treaty reporting procedure. We are currently drafting our first reports, and all Government agencies are participating in that exercise. The internal political and security situation, including our porous common land borders, is peaceful and stable. A recent report of the World Bank, commenting on the general situation of peace and stability in my country, stated, “Most countries emerging from conflict ... relapse into violence within five years. Timor-Leste has avoided that fate, maintained peace and political stability, and established security”. As a result of the unexpectedly high prices of oil and gas, Timor-Leste today enjoys a surplus, which has enabled our Government to increase our public expenditure by 30 per cent during the current fiscal year. That increase will benefit mostly the rural population and the poorest. In addition, we are proud to report that 36 per cent of our national budget is allocated to education and health. We have fostered the best possible relationships with our neighbours. At of the end of July, we became the twenty-fifth member of the Regional Forum of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN); our next goal is ASEAN membership. We enjoy special observer status in the Pacific Islands Forum. Without the active involvement of our regional and international friends, the leadership and coordinating role of the United Nations and the engagement of its many agencies, of the Bretton Woods institutions and of the Asian Development Bank, we would not have been able to achieve the impressive progress we have made thus far. With regard to truth and reconciliation, I shall now address the issue of justice. In an effort to uncover the truth about the events of 1999, the Governments of Timor-Leste and Indonesia have established a joint commission on truth and friendship. The commission is mandated to examine serious acts of violence that occurred in the period before, during and after the 30 August 1999 popular consultations sponsored by the United Nations. We are accused in some quarters of being too preoccupied with forging close relations with Indonesia, to the detriment of justice for past abuses, and in doing so of encouraging impunity. To our accusers, we say the following. We are mindful of the need to accord dignity and respect to the victims of past abuses, and we believe that in the pursuit of justice we must be sensitive to the need to establish a balance between comprehensive justice and national reconciliation in order to avoid perpetuating the divisions of the past and risking the exacerbation of existing cleavages in our society. We believe that our first obligation, as a responsible member of the international community, is to build a peaceful, stable, democratic and prosperous country. By consolidating nation-building, internal peace and stability and 26 unshackling our people from poverty, we can contribute to wider peace and stability. If one were to read the aforementioned World Bank report on the developments in my country, one would reach the same upbeat conclusion about the impressive gains that we have attained in only three years. Let me share with members some additional findings: “Timor-Leste, the world’s newest nation, was created out of ashes ... Given that the country started from scratch both physically and institutionally, Timor-Leste has done remarkably well”. We have developed a model Petroleum Fund legal and policy regime, which we took directly to the people and to the National Parliament for approval. We do not want Timor-Leste to fall prey to the developing nations’ so-called resource curse, whereby God-given resources are squandered. The key principle is that only the sustainable income from our petroleum wealth will be available for current expenditure. Commenting on our Petroleum Fund, the World Bank said that Timor-Leste “has adopted a state-of-the-art legal framework for on- and off-shore petroleum production and taxation and a draft savings policy and associated Petroleum Fund Act consistent with the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) ... having embraced transparency principles even before EITI existed ... True to stated principles, the Government has adhered to a provisional savings policy for petroleum revenues ahead of the adoption of the permanent savings policy”. I should now like to touch upon the theme of United Nations reform. As we observe the current news coverage surrounding the oil-for-food scandal, with the United Nations painted as the villain, we are certainly disappointed that the Organization we idealize is tainted by allegations of corruption. In peacekeeping and conflict prevention, we must remember that while the Secretary-General has the responsibility to alert the Security Council to ongoing or potential conflicts that may threaten international peace and security, the ultimate decision to act rests with the Security Council, in particular the five permanent members. The role of the United Nations in the world has not, however, been limited to peacekeeping; it has provided facilities and an environment for informal meetings between parties in conflict, it has mediated hostage situations or border disputes, and it has mobilized resources and coordinated assistance to war-torn countries or to communities affected by natural disasters. While we all agree that our collective Organization has failed at times, those shortcomings and failures should not obscure its virtues and successes. The United Nations can become more effective if regional bodies do their share in addressing the challenges in their respective regions. Much has been said and written about the need for a thorough review of the United Nations system, and much of the debate has been focused on the Security Council, overshadowing all other issues, including the much-needed reform of the General Assembly itself. Reform is also urgent in regard to the existing human rights system. The proliferation of treaty bodies and agenda items results in a morass of duplication, waste, inefficiency and loss of focus. The General Assembly remains the prime organ of the United Nations that brings together all nations, rich and poor, large and small. The endless and repetitive yearly general debate and agenda must be reviewed in order to shorten it and make it more focused. I now turn to the Commission on Human Rights. No country or group has a monopoly on selectivity. We are all good practitioners, focusing our attention on issues that are often remote from our shores or that do not collide with friendships, alliances or interests. Timor-Leste fully endorses the establishment of a Human Rights Council and is prepared to serve in such a body if we are asked to do so. Timor-Leste strongly supports the creation of a Peacebuilding Commission, which will play a critical role in post-conflict situations. The merits are sui generis. In view of our unique and rich experience, Timor-Leste would be pleased to serve on that new body if our friends believe we can be useful there. There is agreement that the Economic and Social Council must be reformed. It seems to duplicate or add little value to its subsidiary bodies. We do not support expanding the Council’s mandate to include managing United Nations post-conflict activities. 27 A permanent member of the Security Council should not limit its peacekeeping contributions to eloquent rhetoric while refraining from providing the troops necessary to back up its words. We are all capable of delivering eloquent speeches with apparent moral force, but we do not all have the same political will, courage or raw power to match our words. Aspiring Security Council members, permanent and non-permanent alike, should be countries with stable and open political systems and with effective credible national leaderships that inspire trust and respect in their respective regions and throughout the world as a whole. My Government holds the view that regional balance remains a sine-qua-non principle as should representation of civilizations. Asia, which contains half of the world’s population, is grossly underrepresented in the United Nations system and will remain so, even with the possible addition of India and Japan. Timor-Leste supports the G-4 initiative, because we believe that the four countries concerned fulfil every reasonable qualifying criterion for permanent membership in the Security Council. Timor-Leste, which has an overwhelmingly Catholic majority population, is proud to have been the first country to draw the attention of this body to the need to insure that the Muslim world be adequately represented in an expanded Security Council. We continue to believe that Indonesia, the world’s largest Muslim country, with the third largest population in our region and the third largest Asian democracy, is uniquely suited for permanent member status. I wish now to touch on an issue that has been very much in the news in the last few months: Japan and its neighbours. Timor-Leste understands the reservations of certain countries that do not wish to see too large a Security Council; we understand the reluctance of some of the current permanent five to abandon or share privileges with new ones. We understand that countries that were invaded and colonized by Japan during the Second World War are not receptive to their former aggressor. Timor-Leste, too, was occupied by Japan during the Second World War. But we also remember how the proud Japanese people were made to pay an extraordinary price for their Second World War sins. Hiroshima stands as the living reminder of that horrible price. Japanese leaders were brought to trial at the International Military Tribunal for the Far East and paid for their crimes. A defeated Japan was effectively occupied and administered by the victorious American Power. This benign occupier charted the course of the new Japan, which today is a world economic Power, a peaceful and vibrant democracy that has made enormous contributions to the well-being of developing countries and the United Nations system. Allow me now to share with the Assembly my Government’s concern on some key international issues — the Middle East, Afghanistan and Iraq. First, we commend Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon for his courage in disengaging from Gaza. We hope that this is only a first step towards the full implementation of the road map leading to the establishment of a democratic Palestinian State. The new Palestinian leaders and people deserve equal praise for their moderation and statesmanship, patience and tolerance. In Iraq and Afghanistan, local extremist elements and foreign mercenaries continue their campaign of terror to reverse the democratic gains made by the people of the two countries. The international community and, in particular, the neighbouring countries, have a special duty to provide all necessary support to the brave peoples of Afghanistan and Iraq in their struggle to consolidate their hard-won freedoms; the neighbouring countries must do more to prevent their territories from being used as springboards for the infiltration of mercenaries and weapons into Afghanistan and Iraq.I should like, on behalf of my delegation and of the Government and the people of the Republic of Mauritius, to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. We are confident that you will be able to discharge the responsibilities entrusted to you. I want to assure you, as I did during our meeting this morning, of my delegation’s fullest cooperation during your tenure of office. I would also like to convey my delegation’s gratitude and appreciation to Mr. Jean Ping of Gabon for the outstanding manner in which he conducted the affairs of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. As Africans, we are proud of his exemplary stewardship. My delegation also wishes to express its appreciation for the tireless and dedicated efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, in leading the Organization in these challenging times. The very first words of the United Nations Charter — “We the peoples of the United Nations” — are of overwhelming significance. They imply that people should be the primary beneficiaries of every resolution that we adopt and every programme that we launch. As we engage in this debate, we should ask ourselves whether we have, indeed, put the peoples at the centre of all of our deliberations and activities. Have we done enough to ensure that ordinary people, men and women, young and old, benefit from all our initiatives and actions, collective as well as individual? Last Friday, by adopting the outcome document, leaders of the world renewed their pledge to save humanity from the scourge of war, fear, disease, famine and poverty. The citizens of the world were witness to the sober promises we made in it. They now wait, in earnest, to see concrete results. We are therefore required to muster the collective political will to mobilize the necessary resources to fulfil those pledges. The wealthy and powerful North should assist the less fortunate countries, which require assistance to help propel them into the orbit of irreversible sustainable social and economic growth. For its part, the South must devote energy and show creativity as it engages in a common effort to attain social development and human security. The spirit of teamwork and partnership which resulted in the successful outcome of the United Nations world summit should allow us to adopt a fresh mindset that places the interests, security and welfare of our peoples at the centre of our socio-economic policies. That cannot be done without promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms. In our efforts to pursue people-centred development, we must put a premium on tackling those national and transnational issues that have a direct impact on people’s welfare. Lifting peoples out of abject poverty and endowing them with appropriate means to lead productive lives is the best guarantee for long-term sustained social stability, which, in turn, will ensure prosperity and international peace. Poverty reduction and eradication must therefore remain at the core of all development efforts towards a just and equitable order. In keeping with our democratic tradition, just three months ago, the people of my country voted, overwhelmingly, for a change of Government. Immediately upon assuming office, my Government has formulated development strategies based on the premise that economic and social policies must subserve the primacy of the people, in particular the poor. In fact, the fundamental principle of my Government’s policy is putting the people first. My Government believes that the fullest possible participation of the people in the development process is the best guarantee for the success of any growth strategy. The first set of social decisions taken by my Government, with that in mind, has been to expand the welfare State to cover free transportation for students and the elderly as well as to restore old-age pensions for all citizens. My Government's overriding objective is ultimately to make the economy work for the people, not to make the people work for the economy. My delegation believes that assisting developing countries through increased official development assistance (ODA) is crucial; but it is only a palliative, not a remedy. Aid without trade would be not only unsustainable but, indeed, self-defeating. Trade is, and will always remain, the recognized engine of economic growth and development. Developing countries continue to face impediments in their efforts to attain sustained economic growth. Tariff and non-tariff barriers in developed countries, combined with the 10 non-implementation of commitments undertaken with respect to development financing and debt alleviation for developing countries, further aggravate the situation. We call on the international community to demonstrate the political will necessary to ensure that the Doha development round truly takes into account those concerns so as to achieve a fair and equitable global trading system for the benefits of our people. My delegation welcomes the particular attention given by the world summit to the special needs of Africa. While many countries throughout the world have made significant progress in lifting their people out of poverty, for many others — mainly in sub-Saharan Africa — poverty, hunger, illiteracy, infectious diseases and the incidence of HIV/AIDS, unemployment and environmental degradation continue to take a heavy toll. My delegation therefore appreciates the resolve of the international community to address those issues and emphasizes the need for timely implementation of the relevant measures. Despite significant efforts that have resulted in peace in several parts of Africa, the continent continues to suffer from violent conflicts and humanitarian crises. The plight of displaced people — especially women and children — in those conflict situations and in refugee camps needs to be urgently addressed. My delegation wishes to underscore the importance of enhanced measures to protect vulnerable groups, especially women and children, during and after armed conflicts. In our own region, Mauritius continues to remain actively engaged in the reconciliation process in the Comoros. We are presently coordinating the preparations to host a donor round table for the Comoros later this year. The importance of the meeting cannot be overstated. We urge the donor community to contribute to this process for the benefit of the people of the Comoros. The situation in the Middle East is seeing some tangible progress. We welcome the process of Israeli disengagement from Gaza and the northern West Bank, and we commend the efforts of the President of the Palestinian Authority, Mahmoud Abbas, to find a peaceful and lasting solution to the conflict. We urge both the Israeli and the Palestinian peoples to continue the much-needed confidence-building measures so as to achieve a just and lasting peace. With regard to Iraq, where innocent civilians are falling victim to violence on a daily basis, it is imperative that necessary support be provided to ensure the creation of an environment in which the Iraqi people can live in peace and security. I spoke extensively on terrorism in the statement I made on 15 September 2005 during the High-level Plenary Meeting. I wish to reaffirm my country's commitment to fully cooperate with the international community to fight the scourge of terrorism, which has a direct and indirect effect on the lives of ordinary and innocent people. At a time when there is a global consensus regarding the need to build a more secure world, it is a matter of the greatest regret that the 2005 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons failed to achieve a conclusive outcome. The proliferation of nuclear weapons poses a grave risk of fissile material falling into the wrong hands. That eventuality is too horrendous to contemplate. The devastation that could be caused by so-called low-yield nuclear weapons is unimaginable. Mauritius advocates the eventual complete elimination of all nuclear weapons on the basis of a comprehensive and non-discriminatory disarmament regime. To demonstrate once again its full commitment to non-proliferation and to international peace and security, Mauritius recently signed the Additional Protocol of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Mauritius welcomes the agreement reached in June 2005 in New York on a politically binding international instrument on the tracing of small arms and light weapons, which will no doubt assist in combating the illicit trade in such weapons. That represents a significant step in ensuring that our peoples live in a safer world. As regards reform of the Security Council, I wish to refer to my statement on 15 September 2005 outlining the position of Mauritius on that issue. We have a unique opportunity for substantial reform; it must not be squandered. It is imperative that Africa and India, the world's largest democracies, should find their rightful place in such reform. A reformed Security Council should reflect the present geopolitical realities to meet the aspirations of all our peoples. 11 The United Nations is a vital forum in which States, large and small, wealthy and less fortunate, can have their voices heard. It also provides a framework for collective action on the basis of consensus partnership and mutual understanding. I wish to reiterate the appeal I made, as Chair of the Alliance of Small Island States, to our friends and partners at the special session on financing for development to continue to assist the small island developing States in their sustainable development efforts through the proper and effective implementation of the Mauritius Strategy. Regional cooperation is an important means for developing and strengthening the economies of developing countries. To that end, we have made modest but encouraging progress with respect to regional integration. Mauritius pursues an active policy of integration through subregional organizations such as the Southern African Development Community, the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, the Indian Ocean Commission and the Indian Ocean Rim- Association for Regional Cooperation. While relations with our traditional development and trade partners continue to feature prominently in the foreign policy of Mauritius, we intend to take vigorous steps towards the development of strategic partnerships with member States of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation and of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, as well as with Latin American countries. Allow me to reiterate before the Assembly our legitimate sovereignty claim over the Chagos Archipelago, including the island of Diego Garcia, which was detached by the United Kingdom from the territory of Mauritius prior to our independence, in violation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 1960 and resolution 2066 (XX) of 1965. The people of the Chagos Archipelago, who were evicted from the islands, are still struggling for their right to return to their birthplace. We reiterate our call to the United Kingdom to pursue discussions with us for an early settlement of this issue. Likewise, we appeal to the French Government to expedite the process of resolving the issue of the sovereignty of Tromelin through dialogue in the spirit of friendship and trust that has always characterized our relationship. (spoke in French) Here, I should like to say a few words in French to show my country’s attachment to and respect for cultures and languages in all their diversity. Some of those languages, including French, have been bequeathed to us by history. People have struggled throughout history to live better, but humankind continues to suffer. That remains true, unfortunately, for the developing countries, and those of the African continent in particular. The dawn of the third millennium has seen the expansion of assistance projects, including the Millennium Development Goals, to improve the fate of the weak and impoverished. We are committed to reducing extreme poverty and hunger by 2015. The International Organization of la Francophonie, as announced in November 2004 at its tenth summit in Ouagadougou, is involved in that global struggle. We need to reinvent ourselves, get off the beaten track, and find new ways to attain our objectives as soon as possible. In that respect, we welcome the contribution of the French-speaking family in that joint action. (spoke in English) From this very rostrum 37 years ago, when Mauritius acceded to United Nations membership in 1968, Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam, then Prime Minister and father of the Mauritian nation, firmly advocated a secure, stable and just world: “[M]en of goodwill are constantly trying to find a formula by which the underprivileged can banish inequality and fear and aspire to a place in the sun.” (A/PV.1643, para. 100) Today, those aspirations are more valid than ever as the comity of nations engages in the quest for freedom from want, freedom from fear and the freedom to live in dignity. Providing mankind with those freedoms remains the primary goal of the United Nations. In that spirit, I wish to announce that my Government has made a commitment in the Clinton Global Initiative to organizing an international conference on poverty and development, which will be results-oriented. Today, as we celebrate the sixtieth year of its existence, let us strive to become what we were always meant to be — a truly representative body of “We the peoples of the United Nations”, acting in defence of their welfare and the advancement of their interests 12 above all else. That must remain our unflinching objective, and Mauritius pledges to fully play its part in that noble endeavour.The sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations coincides with the commemoration of my country’s twenty-fifth year of independence. The preamble to the Constitution of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines reaffirms that our nation is founded on the belief in the supremacy of God and the freedom and dignity of man. Our national motto, Pax et justitia — Peace and justice — symbolizes both our reality and our dream. The universal ideals which inspired the founding fathers of the United Nations are those which prompted the lofty proclamations in my nation’s Constitution. The United Nations Charter taught us a truth, as though engraved on a tablet of stone, that while some sleep to dream, we must dream to change the world for the better. We in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines accept unequivocally the fulcrum around which the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting revolves, namely, to create a more peaceful, prosperous and democratic world, and to undertake concrete measures to continue finding ways to implement the conclusions of the Millennium Summit and other major United Nations gatherings so as to provide multilateral solutions to the problems which touch and concern development, peace and collective security, human rights and the rule of law, and the strengthening of the United Nations. Yet the outcome document, though certainly a codified and presumably consensual package, falls short of what is truly demanded by these extraordinary, challenging times in the first decade of the twenty-first century. The larger and more powerful nations are gripped by an unreasonable fear which, in the process, constrains them from being reasonably fair. Less powerful nation-States and those which are small and weak internationally often beat their collective chests with an unbecoming self-righteous purity that restrains them from knowing or understanding what impurity is, even within themselves. So, an unwholesome stand-off results. Meanwhile, around us all, there is a carnival of misery, a festival of guns. A Caribbean poet laureate tells us that the faces of men and women are strained and anxious. Many, if not most persons, become sceptical — nay, cynical — of the grand efforts of the world’s leaders. They search instead for an amazing grace which makes the blind to see and the wretched to be saved. Along the way, the majesty of faith becomes metamorphosed, in too many of the world’s inhabitants, into a believer’s extremism. Man’s reason cannot quite fathom, this side of eternity, the evil which extremism breeds. That is an enduring conundrum of our times which, in this earthly city, we, amidst all our limitations and weaknesses, must seek to address appropriately with all our possibilities and strengths, but without the baggage of economic, military or cultural imperialism. Economic imperialism muzzles the mouth with the food that it eats to live and thus builds resentment in that very mouth that eats, and even more so among those who receive no food to eat. Military imperialism 13 begets armed resistance in which a triumph is but a pause in its impermanence. Cultural imperialism distorts the mind, but in that very distortion the seed of its rejection germinates, blossoms and bears a bitter and even chauvinistic fruit. The presumed solutions of the powerful have been shown, historically, to be mirages. Surely, there must be a better way. Nelson Mandela has taught us that. Together, we are the world; we are the future. But of all time, only the future is ours to desecrate; the present is the past, and the past is our fathers’ mischiefs. Underlying all of this is a seemingly intractable socio-economic product of modern globalization — the contradiction between, on the one hand, a growing inequality in income distribution globally and, on the other, the increasing commonality of consumption patterns. Modern communications, including the revolution in information technology, have connected the world as never before. Yet, that very enhanced connection breeds, justifiably, a great impatience among those who are most disadvantaged. Economic adjustment has to be made more swiftly. Time is of the essence, but that very swiftness engenders socio- economic dislocation, which poses immense difficulties for political management. Those profound challenges require a series of measures, including more official development assistance more speedily disbursed, a fair system of international trade, international peace based on tried and tested principles of international law, appropriate reformation of the United Nations and its associate institutions, and a more tolerant and educated population worldwide. But we must set about doing so immediately with conviction, resolution, solidarity and dignity. The alternative is apocalypse now. No difficulties, no hardships, no crises, can justify terrorism. Terrorism wounds the poor and disadvantaged ever so much. Its barbarism must continue to be resisted by civilized peoples and nations internationally. No space must be given to terrorism. A small multi-island nation like Saint Vincent and the Grenadines has a bundle of special needs. We are, therefore, encouraged by the collective recognition by all the Member States of the United Nations that special needs and vulnerabilities attend small island developing States. We are heartened, too, by the reaffirmation of the Member States’ commitment to address these special needs and vulnerabilities. There are reams of paper commitments in the Mauritius Strategy adopted by the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, in the Barbados Programme of Action and in the outcome document of the twenty- second special session of the General Assembly. We realize that the just-concluded United Nations High-level Plenary Meeting has undertaken to promote greater international cooperation and partnership for the implementation of the solemn commitments through, among other things, the mobilization of domestic and international resources, the promotion of international trade as an engine for development and increased international financial and technical cooperation. These splendid commitments and undertakings, like all words, must be made flesh if they are to signify anything. To be sure, heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard will be sweeter in uplifting action. In this regard, I reaffirm, without here repeating, all that I stated in my speech to this body last Friday, 16 September, on the development agenda focused on the Millennium Development Goals and a sustainable condition beyond them for countries like my own. Certainly, a fair resolution to the banana trade impasse in Europe must be fashioned without condemning our poor banana farmers and workers to further penury and misery. The recent occurrences in Asia, the Caribbean and the southern United States of devastating storms and hurricanes, and in Africa, of terrible droughts, demand a more coordinated and rational approach internationally to issues of climate change, disaster preparedness, and post-disaster rehabilitation. By and large, there have been ad hoc national, as distinct from international, approaches. To the extent that international mechanisms exist for prompt and appropriate relief work, they are clearly inadequate for the tasks at hand. This is undoubtedly an area in which the United Nations and one or more of its agencies or associate institutions ought to be able to make a significant difference to the well being of real flesh-and-blood people. After all, natural disasters respect no territorial boundaries or power blocs; calamities from nature have a studied ideological neutrality. They are the same sad songs heard from ancient times by emperor, vassals 14 and clown; and in modern times, increasingly by the rich and the poor. But they afflict the poor more disastrously than any other group. This matter demands urgent international attention. The pain and anguish evoked by President George Bush in his most recent speech on the Katrina disaster must surely move to concerted international action even those who stand amid the alien corn. A sustained, coordinated response is needed if we are to avoid an ignoble “disaster fatigue” that treats a natural disaster in one country as a momentary distraction from normalcy, as television images determine, until the next one arrives. Grenada is a case in point. It was laid waste in September 2004 by Hurricane Ivan, but its recovery effort has been slowed by the focus on the more recent catastrophes from nature in South Asia, Niger and the southern United States. Grenada still cries out for massive international assistance. We must help. There is still an enduring need, even after the television cameras have gone elsewhere. This applies, too, in relation to man-made disasters, such as in Darfur. The ever-deteriorating state of affairs in our Caribbean Community (CARICOM) neighbour Haiti demonstrates vividly the inherent dangers of meddling with the democratic process. Since I spoke on the issue, more in sadness than in anger, one year ago, the situation has disintegrated. The so-called Government, implanted without any mandate from the people, has neither the political will nor the popular support to undertake the measures necessary to return that poor, traumatized country to some semblance of normalcy. There has been no serious effort at disarming the gangs that roam the towns and countryside and practice mob justice. Political victimization continues apace with the cruel detention and violation of the human rights of former Prime Minister Yvon Neptune, the most glaring example; while, on the other side of the coin, the decision of the Supreme Court to quash the sentences of 15 thugs from the Front for Advancement and Progress in Haiti (FRAPH), convicted of involvement in the 1994 Raboteau massacre, has all the elements of political motivation. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, with its CARICOM partners, is anxious to welcome Haiti back into the organs of our regional body. But it would be a betrayal of all that we hold dear to ignore the interruption of democracy, the abuses of human rights and the breakdown of law and order merely to appease perfidious power. We support the work of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH), while believing that the United Nations forces have neither the manpower nor the resources required to perform the miracle that they have been entrusted to conjure. From time to time, one or more of our traditional friends and allies have shown displeasure at one or more of our decisions in the field of international relations. Some appear not to appreciate the necessity and desirability of small States, such as Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, seeking, and oft-times finding, more economic and political space to enhance their capacity to address more efficaciously the harsh winds from the external political economy and to do so in the interest of our people’s humanization. No one has anything to fear from us. None of our friends can reasonably ask us to adopt their enemies as our own. It is part of our quest to get adversaries to speak sensibly to one another and resolve their differences, particularly if they are our neighbours. We pick fights with no one; and we do not pick other people’s fights. One of the best and most loyal friends over our country’s 25 years of independence has been the Republic of China on Taiwan. Our relationship has been exemplary and is characterized by mutual respect, solidarity and a desire for international peace, in accordance with the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. Taiwan, a magnificent political expression of the Chinese civilization, has partnered beautifully with Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, a component of our Caribbean civilization. We unequivocally support the quest of Taiwan to be represented at the United Nations and other international bodies. It is unfair, unreasonable and irrational to exclude a country of 23 million persons, with a thriving economy and a nobility of purpose, from the United Nations. Further, we urge the United Nations to take the lead in promoting constructive dialogue and friendly engagement between the People’s Republic of China and the Republic of China on Taiwan. Bellicose conduct across the Taiwan Strait cannot be condoned in a world striving for enhanced peace and collective security. Let me end by expressing the hope that the United Nations may achieve, in the next 60 years, greater and greater success in its goals of bringing hope to the hopeless, providing food for the hungry 15 and spreading peace, stability and sustainability for now and forever. Let this not be the road less travelled.It gives me great pleasure at the outset to affirm my delegation’s confidence that the Swedish leadership of the work of the current General Assembly session will help us achieve the best results. I also seize this opportunity to commend the efforts made by Gabon, represented by its Foreign Minister, during its leadership of the previous session. I would also like to reiterate our gratitude for the efforts made by Secretary-General Kofi Annan to advance the march of United Nations reform and achieve the goals enshrined in its Charter. Since the 1970s, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya has been fully aware of the need to reform the United Nations and was the first State to put forward official proposals to the General Assembly in that regard, presenting draft resolutions from the thirty-fourth to the fortieth sessions aimed at reforming the Security Council and abolishing the veto privilege. Though the Libyan proposals were not successful because of the objection of the super-Powers, they did, however, create a wide understanding of that issue within the General Assembly, resulting in the adoption of a resolution at its forty-seventh session establishing an open-ended group to review the issue of fair representation in the Security Council and expanding its membership. We participated actively in the group’s work, but its activities reached an impasse. We felt hopeful over the last few years while we were conducting consultations at all levels in order to realize a radical reform for the United Nations system, in the service of international peace and security. However, as the date of our summit-level meeting this year approached, it became evident that the reform we sought remained elusive. This is because some of the privileged Powers of the Security Council do not wish to give up their privileges — in fact not even to share these privileges with others. The victorious countries in the Second World War arrogated rights and privileges for themselves at the time the Charter was drawn up. This led to the marginalization of the General Assembly and rendered the Security Council a domineering body — inequitable, unbalanced and undemocratic, with the veto privilege greatly abused. The United Nations, therefore, has been unable to administer justice among nations; in fact, some of its decisions have inflicted harm on many peoples. As we discuss United Nations reform, we should take into consideration that its membership has now reached 191 States. New global problems have emerged, in addition to the old ones. Thus, it is 2 necessary to place the power of decision-making in the hands of all Members of the United Nations, that is, in the hands of the General Assembly, in which all States have equal votes. However, if such an agreement is not possible, we should seek a new formula for permanent membership in the Security Council. In this respect, we propose that permanent membership be accorded to geographical groups, not to specific States. We also propose that the African Union be granted permanent membership even before the comprehensive reform has been decided, given the fact that Africa is the only continent without a country holding permanent membership in the Security Council. As a member of the African Union, we affirm our adherence to the common African position, adopted by the Fifth African Union Summit, held in Sirte, Libya, on 4 and 5 July 2005. This position was confirmed in the African Union’s Extraordinary Summit on United Nations Reform held in Addis Ababa on 4 August 2005. Libya believes that the elimination of weapons of mass destruction is a fundamental factor in confidence- building and the consolidation of international peace and security. Hence, Libya declared on l9 December 2003 its voluntary renunciation of the programmes and materials that could lead to the production of internationally prohibited weapons and their means of delivery. Since that date, it has been cooperating in a transparent manner with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW). All relevant materials and equipment have been disposed of with the knowledge of experts from the IAEA and the OPCW. Libya is now party to all international conventions on weapons of mass destruction, as well as the code of ethics concerning ballistic missiles. We hope that members of the international community will cooperate in a more appropriate manner to eliminate weapons of mass destruction, acquired by all States, without discrimination, in order to create a world in which peace and security prevail. The Libyan declaration was a culmination of previous Libyan efforts undertaken in this field, starting with effective participation in the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Africa — through its accession to the Pelindaba Treaty — and the call to make the Middle East a zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction. We confirm our readiness to continue our full cooperation with all international organizations in this field and emphasize Libya’s right to expand its programme of peaceful uses of nuclear energy for development, particularly in the fields of medicine, agriculture, desalination, mining and oil exploration. We hope that all countries in the region would place all their nuclear facilities under the IAEA inspection regime. Our country is concerned with human rights issues at the international and national levels. We deal with all organizations working in the field of human rights in a transparent manner. We have donated 2 million dinars to support the activities of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, and we are now reviewing some of our national legislation that is not in conformity with international instruments in the field of human rights. We also have eliminated the People’s Court, established in the early years of the revolution, and its jurisdiction has been assigned to regular courts. Libya was among the first States that called for the coordination of international efforts to combat international terrorism and that proposed an extraordinary session of the General Assembly to study that phenomenon and to develop measures to combat it and eradicate its causes. Libya has condemned terrorism in all its forms, including State terrorism, ratified all international and regional conventions concerning terrorism and is cooperating actively with the committee established by the Security Council on that subject. We believe that the eradication of terrorism requires practical measures to eliminate its causes. Among such actions, we should actively strengthen human rights protections for all people, confront all acts of aggression and occupation of the lands of others, fight poverty and encourage democracy. Terrorism cannot be uprooted unilaterally through actions taken by one State or group of States. The solution for such a problem cannot be achieved by linking it to a certain religion or nationality. It is not fair that the legitimate struggle of peoples to achieve self-determination and independence should be classified as terrorism. We should all exert and 3 coordinate all our possible efforts under the umbrella of the United Nations to combat terrorism and complete, as early as possible, a comprehensive counter-terrorism treaty. My country was subjected to unjust sanctions that caused great material losses totalling about $40 billion. Now, while this matter has ended and the reason behind the sanctions settled, I extend my gratitude to all the friendly and sisterly countries that stood by our side and supported our position in tackling that situation. Competent Libyan authorities are now drawing up plans for restructuring the Libyan economy and are reviewing the public sector, encouraging the private sector and providing opportunity for all to engage in economic activities. New economic policies were adopted in order to advance the national economy, eliminate deficiencies and improve performance. Certain measures have been taken in the monetary field, including the adoption of a single exchange rate for the Libyan dinar against foreign currencies, the abolition of monetary control and a reduction of income taxes. Import and export licences as well as customs guarantees on exports have been abolished as have customs fees on approximately 3,500 imported items. Important steps have been taken for the privatization of many public sector companies. Libya has opened its doors to investors and a law for the encouragement of foreign investment has been promulgated. This law gives foreign investors many privileges and exemptions and allows them 100 per cent ownership of their enterprises or partnership with domestic investors. Our application to join the World Trade Organization was approved unanimously by the organization on 27 July 2004. We seek further cooperation from all countries in that respect. The consolidation and realization of peace and security for all is a fundamental goal of the United Nations. It is an objective that could not be realized by the Organization without the assistance and cooperation of all Member States, which could be effective tools to solve the most difficult problems and conflicts among countries, particularly in Africa. In this respect, we wish to express our satisfaction with the stabilization of the situation in Sierra Leone and Angola and the improvement of the situation in Somalia, Burundi and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as well as the signing of the peace agreement in Sudan. We call on all Member States to assist the African Union in its endeavours to face its various challenges and create a unified African continent capable of achieving progress and participating effectively in the march towards progress, upholding freedom and human rights and eradicating wars, poverty and disease while removing the remnants of colonialism. We hope that support will be extended to the African Union’s plans to achieve prosperity for all African people by providing assistance to the New Partnership for Africa’s Development. The international community so far has failed to solve the Palestinian problem, although it is as old as the United Nations itself. In fact, the problem is getting worse. The Palestinian people have lived for over half a century either as refugees all over the world or subjected to an occupying Power, which has usurped its land and practiced against them the most horrible crimes, including the killing of children, women and the elderly. Their lands have been confiscated, their farms burned, their trees uprooted, their houses destroyed over their occupants, while houses are built for settlers coming from all over the world. Even though highly sophisticated weapons are being used against civilians, the Security Council stands unable to take concrete steps to stop such practices. This has encouraged the occupying Power to continue its aggression and crimes, heedless of the decisions of the international community. The suffering of the Palestinian people requires that urgent and firm action be taken by the international community to put an end to the Israeli aggression and provide a radical solution for the Palestinian question. We believe that the solution cannot be achieved by accepting a de facto situation or by merely adopting resolutions or unrealizable plans. It will happen through a radical solution that allows and guarantees the return of all Palestinian refugees to their lands and the establishment of a democratic State on the land of historical Palestine in which Jews and Arabs live side by side, enjoying full equality, similar to the South African model, where blacks and whites reconciled after decades of conflict and bloodshed. If such a solution is not realized, with the support of the international community, the suffering of the 4 Palestinian people will continue, and the region will continue to witness tension and conflict without peace and security. The Israeli occupation forces must withdraw from all occupied Arab territories; the Golan Heights must be returned to Syrian sovereignty and the Shabaa farms to Lebanon. In Iraq, where international law has been violated and the country subjected to occupation on unfounded bases and flimsy pretexts, the tragedy is escalating daily, getting more and more difficult to solve. The Iraqi people are paying a high price with the lives of their sons and daughters as a result of the occupation. We have to exert every possible effort to guarantee a speedy end to the occupation in order to enable Iraq to regain its independence and sovereignty and preserve its territorial integrity and Arab identity. The Iraqis must be allowed to determine their own affairs, future and manage their resources, and to achieve self- determination with freedom involving all citizens without the marginalization of any group so that peace, prosperity and security can prevail all over Iraq.On behalf of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, I am pleased to extend to Mr. Eliasson my wholehearted congratulations on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. We are convinced that his wealth of experience and immense talent will allow him to address the international and regional issues on our agenda with confidence and ensure the success of this session, which coincides with the sixtieth anniversary of our Organization. I cannot fail to seize this opportunity to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Gabon, for his gifted and patient performance at the helm of the General Assembly at the fifty-ninth session and for his tireless efforts to establish the appropriate conditions for the holding of the session and the High-level Plenary Meeting that preceded it. I should also like warmly to congratulate Secretary-General Kofi Annan and his colleagues on their intense and consistent mediation and efforts to ensure the convening of this session and the achievement of the Organization’s lofty objectives. I also hail the major efforts made during the intersessional period at the high-level dialogue begun in New York in late June on financing for development and at the Economic and Social Council session on national achievements and steps towards the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals and to implement the outcomes of the international conferences held from 1992 to 2002. Attaining the objectives of development, security and stability hinges on how effectively we deal with the issues of violence and terrorism. The global nature of the phenomenon of terrorism requires that the question be dealt with in a global manner, through the complementarity of the cultures of nations and a rejection of confrontation and conflict. It is also important not to forget the considerable growth gap that exists between poor and rich countries, particularly since the social, scientific and technical lag is one of the major causes of tension and one that nurtures terrorism and violence in the world. In Mauritania, we condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, and we view it as a phenomenon that is alien to our society and our Islamic values of tolerance. We reject violence and extremism and call for mutual understanding, dialogue and tolerance. It is clear that we must quickly begin a political dialogue, which is the only means to end the conflict in the Middle East and to restore calm there. In this context, my country believes that the Israeli withdrawal from Gaza and a few cities of the West Bank constitutes an important step towards the implementation of the road map and the Arab peace initiatives. Through those initiatives Arab States have proposed to Israel a comprehensive peace and normal relations in exchange for total withdrawal from all Palestinian territories and from Syrian and Lebanese territories, a return to the 4 June 1967 borders, the establishment of a Palestinian State with East Jerusalem as its capital, and a negotiated, just settlement of the problem of Palestinian refugees. We are following with interest the developments of the situation in Iraq and are anxious to preserve Iraq’s territorial unity, the unity of its people, its sovereignty, independence and non-interference in its internal problems, in order to overcome the problems and ensure security, stability and the re-construction of the State, while supporting the transitional Government. We are following with equal interest the development of the situation in the Sudan, and we give our blessing to the Agreement between the Government of Sudan and the Sudanese People’s Liberation Army. We support the commendable efforts of the Sudanese Government, in coordination with the African Union, the Arab League and the United Nations, to tackle humanitarian, security and political questions related to the Darfur crisis. Regarding Western Sahara, Mauritania supports the efforts of the United Nations and its Secretary- General to find a definitive solution to assure stability in the region, a solution that has the support of all parties. Mauritania today is on the eve of an era that began with an initiative taken by the Military Council for Justice and Democracy on 3 August 2005, which was hailed by the entire Mauritanian people. It put an end to totalitarian practices that caused suffering and led to dangerous derailments that threatened the future of the country over the last two decades. This initiative rests on the commitment of the Council to the Mauritanian people to create the right conditions for the emergence of an honest and transparent democracy and to allow civil society and all legal political actors 10 to participate in this endeavour with full freedom. The Military Council will not exercise its powers beyond the period necessary to prepare for and set up genuine democratic institutions, and that period will not extend beyond two years. The Military Council for Justice and Democracy solemnly reaffirms respect for all of Mauritania’s international commitments and instruments. In crystallizing this initiative, the Military Council for Justice and Democracy has defined the priorities of the transitional Government. It has established three ministerial committees entrusted with the task of defining the modalities to guarantee proper elections, working together with political parties and civil society organizations to establish an equitable legal system, in consultation with the national bar association. The aim of these efforts is to propose all measures necessary for the emergence of a genuine system of good governance, in which the private sector and civil society participate. In order to ensure justice and national reconciliation and to enable all people to participate freely and actively in political life, a comprehensive and absolute amnesty was proclaimed on 2 September 2005 for all Mauritanians condemned for political crimes and misdemeanours. At this point in time, no Mauritanian is being prosecuted for any political crime domestically or abroad. For the first time, the mass media are open to all political parties and civil society institutions. A constitutional law was enacted prohibiting the President and members of the Military Council for Justice and Democracy, the Prime Minister and members of the Transitional Government from standing in the forthcoming elections or supporting any political candidate or party. An independent elections committee was formed to supervise elections, seeking help from any nation willing to help. It is in this context that Mauritania presented a memorandum to the United Nations regarding provision of assistance to international observers invited by the Mauritanian Government to provide technical and logistical assistance for the elections. This is with a view to conducting a constitutional referendum, which will be organized by July 2006 at the latest, as well as legislative and presidential elections to be held before 6 August 2007. The referendums and elections would be held in accordance with the commitment made by the Military Council for Justice and Democracy with the Transitional Government, in order to provide the appropriate conditions for a transparent and open democracy and to facilitate the establishment of institutions that will be truly representative and diverse. Mauritania is eager to contribute to the development of cooperation and solidarity in the regional context. It is in that context that we would like to reaffirm our total support for the Arab Maghreb, which remains an incontrovertible strategic choice and an ambitious project for the people of the region in their aspirations to greater complementarity and solidarity. With regard to the African continent, we would like to reiterate the importance we attach to our friendship and brotherly relations with all countries of the continent. We would like to further strengthen cultural dialogue, communications and relations, which we have pledged to do within the Five-plus-Five framework and the Barcelona process, the tenth anniversary of which we shall celebrate this year. Given ongoing world changes, we would like to see the role and functions of the General Assembly enhanced and to see its decisions implemented. That holds true for other organs of the United Nations, in particular the Economic and Social Council. The Security Council needs to be strengthened, and to be made more representative by including members from Africa, Latin America and other regional groups, such as the Arab Group, as well as other industrialized States such as Germany and Japan. Finally, the working methods of the Council and its performance need to be improved so that it can achieve its mandate of maintaining international peace and security.Allow me to begin by congratulating Mr. Jan Eliasson, upon his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. We have full confidence in him and in his team. I would also like to commend Mr. Jean Ping for the pivotal role that he played during the fifty-ninth session. The leaders of the world gathered in this very Hall last week at the largest summit meeting in history. The outcome document adopted by the heads of State or Government has given us very concrete tasks for the future. The reform continues; we will have to maintain focus and take important decisions during the sixtieth session. My remarks today will be confined to a few main topics, with a specific emphasis on Estonia’s contribution to our common goals. Development, security and human rights are interconnected issues. It is inconceivable that global progress in those areas can be made without an effective multilateral system, fully in line with the principles of the United Nations Charter. As we pointed out a week ago in the outcome document, no country can tackle today’s intricate challenges alone. Estonia is fully committed to strengthening the United Nations. We live in a global and interdependent world and we thus need to combine our efforts. There has to be cooperation among different organizations that have the capacity for conflict prevention and peacekeeping operations, as well as for providing for such requirements as logistical support and training. The United Nations cannot hope to find a United Nations solution for all problems. Estonia is pleased to see that the United Nations is actively forging a deeper partnership with various organizations. Estonia is actively participating in the common efforts of both the European Union and NATO. We feel that the United Nations, the European Union and NATO should all continue working towards mutually fruitful cooperation and towards greater predictability in terms of the allocation of resources. The more we coordinate our activities, the better will be the results we can achieve in dealing with conflict, poverty and human suffering. The European Union has made great headway in developing battle groups, thus increasing our ability to react swiftly in crisis situations. Estonia will continue to contribute through various organizations to the stability of Afghanistan, Iraq, Sudan, Kosovo and the Middle East. Our long- term contribution to United Nations monitoring on the Israeli-Lebanese border, our explosives-detecting teams in Afghanistan, our substantive presence — considering the size of Estonia — in Kosovo, our assistance in training the new Iraqi police force and our participation in stabilizing Iraq are just a few examples of my country’s contribution to common efforts. Estonia also acknowledges the need to develop African peacekeeping and to provide better training for United Nations peacekeepers. We hosted a United Nations peacekeeping “train the trainers” course in Estonia just a few months ago, attended by peacekeepers from some 30 countries. Over the years, we have shown our continued commitment to United Nations activities, including peacekeeping, in a very simple and unequivocal way — by paying regularly and on time the full amount of our assessed contributions. The role of the international community does not end at the point where we manage to stop an ongoing conflict. As we all know, without adequate State structures, a country faces the risk of relapsing into conflict. Therefore, Estonia welcomes the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission, and we hope to see the first results of its work fairly soon. The next issue I would like to address is terrorism. Here, our position is unequivocal: terrorism is unacceptable in all circumstances, and we should be united against it. We regret that the summit document 37 does not condemn the deliberate killing of civilians and non-combatants. Estonia believes that the anti-terrorism strategy put forward by Secretary-General Kofi Annan should be adopted and implemented. We consider the conclusion of the comprehensive convention against international terrorism an utmost priority during the current session of the General Assembly. Estonia fully implements all relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions and supports the initiatives of the United Nations and other international organizations in preventing and combating terrorism. A few days ago, Estonia signed the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is another pressing security concern. We regret that no agreement was reached on non-proliferation and disarmament during the summit. There is a serious concern over slow progress in the sphere of poverty eradication and the realization of other Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Estonia, together with other European Union member States, is increasing resources devoted to development cooperation. Despite our status as a new donor, Estonia’s official development assistance in 2004 was already 0.08 per cent of gross national income. We are steadily increasing our input, and this will also raise our voluntary contribution to United Nations development-related activities. No State will be able to achieve the MDGs as long as it does not respect fundamental human rights. The second International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People coincides with the targeted time frame for the accomplishment of the MDGs — 2015. If we truly want to achieve the MDGs, we must focus on the issues that matter most to people, including indigenous peoples. The implementation of the MDGs in connection with the indigenous peoples has to be viewed within the broader context of the Millennium Declaration, which brings together the three basic aims of the United Nations Charter — peace and security, economic and social development, and human rights. One cannot, of course, fail to mention the matter of climate change, the relevance of which has become especially clear after recent natural disasters. Indeed, we have to step up global long-term cooperation so that we can produce real change. I would like to stress the significance of the Human Rights Council. We see the Council as a standing Charter body, well-connected with other United Nations structures, including the Security Council. Human rights violators should not have a seat at the Council. Estonia is committed to promoting human rights as universal values that should be guaranteed for all. We are pleased that the summit agreed to double the regular budget for the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights within the next five years. I would like to stress Estonia’s firm belief in the extraordinary importance of democracy, good governance and the rule of law. Estonia supports the creation of the Democracy Fund, to which we will make a financial contribution. Estonia applauds the agreement that we reached on the responsibility to protect. We should all fulfil commitments nationally, but we should also be prepared to deal with cases of genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and all other crimes against humanity urgently requiring outside intervention, even if it has not been requested. In such cases, the international community has to take action. As a founding member of the International Criminal Court, we are disappointed not to see any reference to this Court in the outcome document. We deem the Court, as well as other instruments of international justice, vital to counter impunity for international crimes. Sixty years ago, world leaders made a promise to prevent war, to defend human rights and to help the peoples of the world to achieve safety, prosperity and freedom. Let us be bold and try harder than ever to achieve these goals.At the outset, I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the important post of President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth anniversary session and to wish you every success in your responsible and difficult task. May I also extend our thanks to your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for his successful presidency of the previous session of the Assembly. The summit that ended yesterday demonstrated that the United Nations remains the universal Organization capable of making an important contribution to strengthening international peace and security, achieving sustainable development and finding adequate answers to new global challenges and threats. In that regard, I hope that this sixtieth anniversary session of the General Assembly will become a major event in and give people some hope for the future. The rapid changes in today’s world have not bypassed Kyrgyzstan. Our people, not indifferent to its own destiny and future, in March of this year chose its own path to development, progress and creativity. Another page has been turned in Kyrgyzstan’s modern history. We enter the twenty-first century full of resolve to achieve our deepest aspirations and hopes for peace, prosperity, progress and freedom. We are confident that that the goals reflected in the Millennium Declaration will be achieved in the Kyrgyz Republic as elsewhere. If it is to preserve the respect and to justify the hopes of peoples, the United Nations must not lag behind the swift and ever accelerating changes taking place in the world today. It must not only adapt to current realities, but also create more effective machinery for addressing new challenges and risks. Kyrgyzstan is convinced that United Nations reform should fully reflect the will, fundamental rights and interests of all States Members and peoples. In recent years, the Security Council has been repeatedly criticized for its failures in the maintenance of international peace and security. It is therefore extremely important that the Security Council find the most effective way to meet its basic responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Kyrgyzstan has consistently advocated expansion of the membership of the Security Council and reform of its working methods in order to make it more representative, democratic and, above all, more effective. We believe that the reform of the Security Council should be based on the principles of universality, efficiency and broad geographic representation. The Council’s decisions must be as timely as possible and their implementation correspondingly expeditious and effective. The Kyrgyz Republic shares the position that United Nations reform will be successful only if Security Council reform is followed by reform of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council. We support efforts to enhance the activities of the General Assembly and to strengthen the coordinating functions of the Economic and Social Council. Effective coordination among the three principal organs is extremely important in addressing the complex problems facing the world today. We all realize how great and complex are the challenges facing the United Nations in the maintenance of peace and security. Kyrgyzstan intends to make its contribution to those tasks. For the first time, it has offered its own candidature for non- permanent membership of the Security Council for the term 2012-2013. We understand the great responsibility that membership of that crucial organ of the United Nations entails. I would venture to assure the 19 Assembly that Kyrgyzstan will make every effort to increase its cooperation with Member States in all regions and to become a reliable partner in resolving global political issues. Today, the United Nations and its agencies are more engaged with issues of development than with those of security. While many United Nations agencies deal every day with the problems of development, there is only one permanent organ that deals with security issues. In our opinion, given globalization and the interrelationship of all issues relating to man-made and natural disasters, along with international terrorism and extremism, the United Nations capacity to maintain global security must be considerably strengthened. We believe that development programmes should be endowed with preventive powers to ensure security and safety. The history of international relations in the second half of the last century shows that it is virtually impossible to preserve international peace and security when certain basic conditions of life remain unmet. Poverty and deprivation lead to tension, which in turns leads to breaches of international peace and security. It is no accident that it is precisely the poorest regions of the world that suffer the most serious regional conflicts. If it is to achieve its security and development targets, the international community must adopt a more balanced policy. The world community must work actively to overcome disparities and inequalities between the countries of the North and the South. We feel that the United Nations needs to establish interactive machinery to resolve the issues that cause the poorest countries to opt out of the process of global development and decision-making. The countries of the South should become full partners in decisions involving global problems. Kyrgyzstan remains committed to the Monterey Consensus, whereby the developed countries will increase their development assistance and poor countries will adapt themselves to using that assistance more effectively. At various high-level forums, we have come to understood the concepts of sustainable economic development and sustainable human development. We fully support those concepts, with substantive provisions reflected in our national strategy and programmes. Furthermore, the successful implementation of the national development programmes of many countries is directly linked to regional and international cooperation. It is at the juncture where all of those interests meet that the United Nations and its agencies must further enhance their role and coordinate their efforts. We support the proposal for national development strategies to be adopted by 2006 and implemented by 2015 as indicators for the implementation of the development goals set out in the Millennium Declaration. In our opinion, the United Nations should mobilize new resources, strengthen coordination and increase its contribution to the resolution of development issues. Donor countries must now move from paying lip- service to their obligations to concrete action. In that regard, the Kyrgyz Republic welcomes the decision of the European Union to allocate 0.7 per cent of its gross national income to official development assistance by 2009. Kyrgyzstan also advocates the identification of an acceptable level of indebtedness and the adoption of urgent and commensurate measures to ease the debt burden of developing countries. Kyrgyzstan is a landlocked, mountainous country. Mountain States are characterized by remoteness, difficult accessibility, the scarcity of information, harsh geo-climatic conditions, and high costs of living. While receiving financial aid from the developed countries, Kyrgyzstan itself is a donor of environmental services whose value increases yearly. So, for example, the Kyrgyz Republic is one of the principal repositories of glaciers and suppliers of fresh water in the region. Moreover, in the context of the International Convention on Biological Diversity, Kyrgyzstan also operates a network of biosphere areas and releases much less greenhouse gases into the atmosphere than most other countries of the world, thus contributing to the preservation of the planet’s ozone layer. At the same time, unfortunately, in our territory, our many stockpiles of radioactive waste are an inheritance from the military-industrial complex of the former Soviet period. Their maintenance and the prevention of further potential ecological accidents for the entire Central-Asian region are an excessive burden for Kyrgyzstan. We believe that the international community, with a coordinating role for the United Nations, should more actively involve itself in those 20 areas of environmental risk and provide more financial and technical assistance to avert global and regional ecological disasters. We also believe that the United Nations should be more active in assisting poor and developing countries regarding sustainable development by creating machinery to shift the burden of external debt to sustainable development. A significant amount of our income goes to servicing our debt, hindering the socio- economic development of mountainous areas. In addition to disaster preparedness and mitigation, Kyrgyzstan supports initiatives on the creation of a worldwide early warning system for natural disasters. As a mountain country, Kyrgyzstan regularly faces serious and frequent natural disasters, such as earthquakes, landslides, avalanches, and the flooding of cities and settlements. In our harsh experience, the consequences of such natural disasters divert huge sums from economic and social development and highlight the importance of strengthening ecological security. As a first step, Kyrgyzstan offers the use of its territory as a pilot area for the prevention and mitigation of such natural disasters. I would also like to express our support for the establishment of a committee of regional organizations under United Nations auspices. Such a committee would enable the exploitation of untapped potential of the regional and subregional organizations in the prevention and settlement of conflicts and other important regional problems. Regional structures with such potential that are now operating effectively should play a mutually complementary role in facing new threats and challenges. Kyrgyzstan supports the participation in the work of the committee of such organizations as the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the Collective Security Treaty Organization, the Euro-Asian Economic Union and the Central Asian Cooperation Organization. We also support measures to enhance the effectiveness of peacekeeping operations and welcome the Secretary-General’s proposal on United Nations standby forces of peacekeepers and civilian police. The Kyrgyz Republic is the only country in Central Asia that participates in United Nations peacekeeping operations. We have sent military observers and staff officers to the United Nations missions in Liberia, Burundi, Sierra Leone, Serbia and Montenegro, and the Sudan. We are proud of our contribution and are resolved to continue supporting that noble endeavour. Kyrgyzstan actively supports the efforts of the international community to restore and strengthen peace in Afghanistan and has opened its territory to the forces of the counter-terrorism coalition and the Collective Security Treaty Organization to provide regional security measures. We remain committed to the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia. The text of the agreement on such a zone has been agreed by five countries of our region and we are pleased that the Kyrgyz Republic is to be the depositary of the treaty. We feel that this is evidence of the great respect and trust in which our Republic is held with regard to the initiative to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone. I am firmly convinced that the establishment of such a zone in our region will strengthen global security and regional stability. We hope to obtain the corresponding support of the world community. In conclusion, I would like to note that the world community is going through a difficult phase in the establishment of a new system of international relations. Clearly, it will be a long, drawn-out process. The States Members of the United Nations should affirm their readiness to find practical solutions to the most essential problems of our time: combating poverty, famine and disease and to work for sustainable development. This session of the General Assembly will be remembered as the session of reforms.Samoa warmly congratulates you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this historic moment — a very challenging time. Samoa pledges to you and to Sweden its full support and cooperation throughout the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. I also want to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping of the Gabonese Republic, for his outstanding service and effective guidance during the fifty-ninth session. Just a few days ago in this very Hall, we met to take stock of progress and map the way forward in the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The MDGs are not merely a set of targets, but encompass a process which addresses the varied challenges to human development. While some progress has been made over the past five years, much more remains to be done. It is therefore imperative that concerted global efforts be strengthened, in terms of political commitment and resource mobilization, if the outcome of the summit envisaged in the summit outcome document is to be achieved. Samoa is progressing well towards achieving the MDGs by the target period of 2015. Challenges remain, however, and they are being addressed through legislative and policy initiatives and the creation of innovative partnerships with the donor community and civil society. Samoa reiterates its support for the ongoing efforts to modernize and strengthen the United Nations. We thank the previous President of the Assembly, as well as the Secretary-General, for their laudable work and tireless efforts in advancing the reform and revitalization of the Organization. It is our belief that reform measures must provide for a transparent, democratic and expanded Security Council, in both the permanent and non-permanent membership categories, and for an effective and strengthened Organization that reflects the realities of the twenty-first century. Substantive changes are therefore required with regard to both the General Assembly and the Security Council, as well as to other bodies of the United Nations system. We congratulate President Ping, in particular for his stewardship and leadership throughout the negotiations for and the adoption of the summit declaration last week. This is the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations; the time is surely ripe now to implement the reforms needed to revitalize our Organization and enable it to effectively realize the principles and goals identified in the declaration. The courageous efforts of the Israeli and Palestinian authorities to find a sustainable peace solution deserve our applause and prayers for continuing success. While there have been positive developments in the Middle East, the violence and acts 7 of terrorism in Iraq and in other parts of the region remain causes for grave concern. Terrorism, perpetrated by those with no respect for human decency and life, continues to plague our world. No cause or grievances can justify acts that kill and maim innocent people. Heinous and murderous acts of terrorism serve only the purposes of those who want to destabilize society and usher in a dark age for our world. Samoa therefore condemns terrorism in all its forms in the strongest terms and will continue to support the international campaign to overcome that scourge to human dignity and security. The peacekeeping and security advocacy work of the United Nations around the world has our full support. Samoa presently has police contingents serving with peacekeeping missions in Timor-Leste and in Liberia. Within our Pacific region, Samoa also contributes police support to the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI) under the auspices of the Pacific Islands Forum. RAMSI conforms to its regional responsibilities under Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter and recognizes the sovereignty of the Solomon Islands. Samoa is pleased to note that the membership of the International Criminal Court will soon number 100. Samoa adds its voice to the appeal for the early ratification of and accession to the Rome Statute establishing the Court by those States that have not yet done so. The Court brings to justice those who commit genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes and is therefore an important institution in upholding international humanitarian standards and the protection of human rights. For those reasons, it would be a mistake to undermine the effectiveness of the Court in any way. Instead, the Court should be given the necessary support to give it universality. Samoa remains extremely concerned about the proliferation of nuclear weapons and their threat, not just to international peace and security, but to the very existence of life on our planet. We regret deeply that the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, held in May 2005, was unable to agree on steps to strengthen the non-proliferation regime. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) are the main instruments for controlling the spread of nuclear weapons. The South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty highlights the seriousness with which the issue of the threat of nuclear weapons is viewed in our region and we call on States who have not done so to ratify the Treaty’s Protocols. Clearly, adherence to the requirements of the NPT, the CTBT and other conventions on disarmament is vital. Samoa therefore joins the call for all United Nations Members to sign on to those treaties and for States parties to honour their obligations to them. Small arms and light weapons have been used time and again in violent conflict, contributing to the destabilization and devastation of communities in many countries, including in the Pacific. The proliferation of small weapons is a major problem. We therefore fully support the holding of a review conference on small arms next year, in particular with a view to concluding a treaty to control the trade in small arms and stop them from reaching areas of violent conflict. As the current Chair of the Pacific Islands Forum, I wish to report that since the General Assembly session last year new and positive developments have taken place in the Pacific region. The programme of Pacific Regional Assistance to Nauru, a regional response to assist Nauru rebuild its economy, is in progress. With assistance from the United Nations, an autonomous government is now being established in Bougainville. I am also pleased to announce that the Pacific Plan — a road map to further strengthen regional cooperation and integration to achieve our region’s priority goals of economic growth, sustainable development, good governance and security — is nearing completion and is expected to be considered and approved by Pacific Forum leaders at their next summit, in Papua New Guinea, in October of this year. The Pacific Plan will also improve Pacific countries’ capacities to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. The Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, adopted in January 2005, sets out long-term action plans for the sustainable development of small island developing States (SIDS). While we accept that the primary responsibility for the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy lies with us, there is still a critical need for the sustained and long-term commitment of our partners to focus on the special 8 case of SIDS and to take their specific vulnerabilities, and the challenges generated thereby, into account. We therefore call on the United Nations system and the international community to provide the necessary support to implement and monitor the Mauritius Strategy. As has often been repeated from this rostrum, trade is the surest path to greater wealth and a vital component of sustainable development for SIDS. We therefore support the successful conclusion of the Doha Round, which took the vulnerabilities of small States fully into account in the negotiations, particularly with regard to special and preferential treatment for small economies. Let me conclude by reaffirming Samoa’s commitment to multilateralism and to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.Saint Lucia supported your unanimous election, Sir, to be President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session, confident that your diplomatic skills and experience are just what we need to ensure a positive outcome of this historic sixtieth anniversary session. I congratulate you and the Government and people of Sweden on behalf of the delegation of Saint Lucia and on my own behalf and pledge our cooperation to you in our common endeavour. My Government and delegation also extend our thanks to your predecessor in office, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, for his stewardship of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly, charged as it was with the preparatory work for this sixtieth anniversary. In these times, when the demands on the United Nations are significant and increasing, resources limited and we, the Member States, are called upon to strengthen our cooperation and keep detractors and cynics of the Organization at bay, my Government wishes to express its appreciation to the Secretary- General for his continuing support for the work of the United Nations. In this sixtieth year of the United Nations, our world is certainly not the prosperous and peaceful one built on the unity and strength of nations that the Charter envisaged. Should we conclude, therefore, that had the United Nations exerted more authoritative influence in global affairs, our twenty-first century world would be a better one? Such an assertion seems plausible in today’s world, replete with poverty and 19 hunger, disease, lack of sustainable development, human rights violations, terrorism, conflict and war, glaring inadequacies and a multitude of other grave problems, including the unfinished agenda on decolonization. The record of the United Nations, however, does not bear out so simplistic an assertion. If we look with historical retrospection at the Organization’s record, we see that it has wielded enormous influence over the years. The challenge that we Member States must take up at this sixtieth anniversary is to ensure that the United Nations, the key Organization in global affairs, has the authority and prestige to anticipate and meet challenges of the nature and scale we are witnessing in today’s world. Development is foremost among the challenges that Member States have identified for urgent attention during this sixtieth anniversary. There is logic in this approach. A significant proportion of the critical problems that the world faces now and in the future is intrinsically linked to development. It is for this reason that heads of State or Government, in their Millennium Declaration, defined succinctly what must be done to advance socio-economic development in areas of vital concern. As we know, this comprehensive blueprint underpins the Millennium Development Goals. The global leadership was sufficiently confident to place their Goals within specified time frames, understanding as they did the desperate need for improvement in the socio-economic conditions in numerous developing countries. What will we, the Member States of this United Nations, say to the people of the developing world grappling with poverty, hunger, HIV/AIDS and other deadly diseases, illiteracy, gender discrimination and other challenges if, by the date set, we have not met the targets of the Millennium Development Goals? My Government sees no merit in the discussion as to whether target dates should have been set. Our orientation should now be towards accelerating the pace of implementation so that the Goals can be accomplished within agreed time frames, or better still even earlier than the target dates. The United Nations must also show the people of the developing world that comprehensive measures are being taken to address the environment and sustainable development. Natural disasters of phenomenal proportions — from Hurricane Ivan in the Caribbean to the tsunami in Asia and now to Hurricane Katrina in the southern United States — have brought death and destruction to developing and developed countries alike. I take this opportunity on behalf of the Government and people of Saint Lucia to extend our sympathy to the Government of the United States for the tragedy still unfolding in the Gulf Coast states. Resource-rich developed countries are better positioned to mitigate the impact of natural disasters, although they too are not without their challenges. For developing countries, however, including Saint Lucia and other small island developing States in the Caribbean and Pacific, decades of progress can be obliterated in the course of a few hours by one hurricane or typhoon. Beyond doubt the environment is a critical element of the United Nations development agenda. It is a compelling reason for all to sign on to the Kyoto Protocol. It is also in our common interest to meet all the commitments made in the Monterrey Consensus on Financing for Development. In many instances, however, expectations are not being realized. Developing countries still cannot rely on wide-ranging development cooperation and assistance and debt reduction responses that are predictable and reliable. Needless to say my Government joins in urging the developed countries that have not already done so to meet the 0.7 per cent target. We recognize the G-8 initiative to take enhanced measures for Africa’s development and hope that that initiative would be speedily implemented. Related to concern for the development and well- being of all the world’s people, the Government of Saint Lucia commends the establishment of the $1 billion emergency fund to be finalized later this year, which will enable the Organization to more quickly and effectively respond to humanitarian crises. This sixtieth anniversary provides us with yet another opportunity to give impetus to initiatives to spread the benefits of globalization and trade liberalization more widely. Priority must be given to ensuring that all developing countries benefit from freer world trade, that a decline in their trade sector be halted and reversed and that the competition they face in the world economy be on a level playing field. I am really tired of saying this — that one size cannot fit all, an indisputable fact that the World Trade 20 Organization stubbornly refuses to acknowledge with respect, inter alia, to bananas and sugar in Caribbean Community and small island developing States. Indeed, the cause of development would be greatly enhanced by a positive outcome from the next round of the Doha trade negotiations scheduled for Hong Kong, China, in December 2005, and an early and successful conclusion of the round overall, hopefully in 2006. Developing countries must be equal partners in this process, and together with the developed countries take the decisive action required at the World Trade Organization. What my Government seeks to emphasize by drawing attention to the development imperative is that the time has come for a paradigm shift in the United Nations approach to development. For more than a decade we have, through a series of United Nations summits and conferences in the economic and social fields, formulated an agreed framework of a United Nations development agenda, which includes the Millennium Development Goals. To these we have now added the outcome document of the sixtieth anniversary summit. Are these courses of action that we have agreed upon to be regarded as mere platitudes, destined to be relegated to the archives of the United Nations? The developing countries have communicated through the Group of 77 and China that the partnership and cooperation of the countries of the developed world, and indeed all stakeholders, are urgently needed to accelerate action and implementation of the United Nations development agenda. This sixtieth anniversary, we believe, has a responsibility to launch this process afresh and to carry out the commitments that we have made in this development agenda. A more influential Economic and Social Council and a United Nations development system that is strong and cohesive would ensure that the Organization implements its development mandate effectively. Making the United Nations responses equal to its challenges through reform and revitalization was an important element of our deliberations in the preparatory process for this sixtieth anniversary. Let me say that my Government is prepared to actively work together with other Member States to set precise and unambiguous mandates for new or reconstituted bodies, including a Peacebuilding Commission and Human Rights Council, on the basis of consensus. It is our considered opinion however that a credible process of United Nations reform must result in a strong General Assembly, the Organization’s sole universal organ from which no Member State can be or is excluded. We can ill afford to further erode the General Assembly’s role and authority, since the Charter confirms in a practical sense the importance of the Assembly by the expansive mandate that it has been given in areas that include the maintenance of international peace and security. No other organ has been given such broad responsibilities nor has the potential to deliver over such a wide range of Charter ideals. We are also convinced that a strong General Assembly would enhance the credibility and standing of the United Nations as a whole. Therefore, the momentum of General Assembly revitalization must be maintained, and our efforts in this area must be as dynamic and flexible as are the forces shaping today’s world. Reform of the Security Council has also been a major preoccupation in the lead up to this sixtieth anniversary, as it has been for some 12 years. An indisputable case has been made for the expansion of the Council to reflect the exponential growth of the United Nations membership from 51 in 1945 to 191 today. We all know that the obstacle to moving beyond this point is the diverging and strongly held views about whether an expanded membership should include new permanent members. Again this is an issue that my Government would wish to see resolved by consensus. Perhaps this matter might be put into better perspective if we were to reflect on the role and function of the United Nations as a whole. Within the broad range of human endeavours entrusted to the Organization, the Charter gives the Security Council one specific, albeit critical, mandate — that is, the maintenance of international peace and security. My Government is of the view that it was not intended for this collective security mandate to be carried out by the Security Council functioning as an independent and separate entity, but rather to be carried out in cooperation with the United Nations as a whole, and certainly in tandem with the General Assembly, where all Member States of this Organization have a voice and a vote. After all, global peace and security concern all citizens of the world, not just the citizens of those 21 countries who happen at any given time to hold seats on the Security Council. For the present, war and conflict loom large, and this must be of concern to the Council. But we must hold out hope that we, the Member States of this Organization, can make its constituent parts — the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council, the development system and other organs and agencies, and particularly the Security Council — work together to substantially reduce, if not eliminate, war, conflict and crises. We must also ask ourselves, what is the nature of the membership that the Council requires to implement its mandate? Far more than any consideration, it is the commitment — and I underscore the word “commitment” — of the Council’s membership, permanent or non-permanent, to enforcing its decisions — all of them — to responding to situations that threaten international peace and security wherever they may arise and to combating the insidious spread of international terrorism that determines the success of the Council’s work. We can no longer posture and bicker while the people of the world wait, particularly the people of the developing world, who so desperately need the United Nations. We must take the historic opportunity that this sixtieth anniversary presents to set our sights on a twenty-first century world framed in the ideals enshrined in the Charter, a world of prosperity, peace and security, with a strong United Nations at its core. We need the United Nations. It has the unmitigated support of the Government and people of Saint Lucia.The recently convened High-level Plenary Meeting at the level of heads of State or Government can rightly be referred to as the major historical event of the beginning of the new millennium. It is important that, at the summit, the international community not only reiterated previously undertaken commitments but also took new, concrete decisions for their practical implementation. Most importantly, world leaders clearly stated that there is no alternative to the United Nations as an international Organization that can coordinate efforts to address the challenges faced by humankind. Through the common political will of world leaders, a unique opportunity has arisen to strengthen joint efforts towards peaceful and sustainable social 23 and economic development and the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs); to progress towards the eradication of poverty and disease; to overcome humanitarian crises; and to provide a better world for present and future generations. Further progress requires united, concerted and consistent action on the part of the international community as a whole. There is no doubt that the United Nations must play a key role in mobilizing and coordinating such efforts. We share the view that it is necessary to strengthen the Organization and its specialized agencies, including through the urgent reform of the Secretariat and of other United Nations bodies. Tajikistan welcomes the outcome of the September summit and is prepared to meet all the commitments and implement all the decisions outlined in its outcome document. We view them as a pledge by the international community to devote the necessary attention to human development challenges and, to that end, to channel additional financial resources to countries in extreme need, such as Tajikistan. The Millennium Development Goals must remain the focus of our efforts. There is no doubt that, at the national level, the pace of, and priorities in, the implementation of the MDGs must be adapted to the conditions prevailing in particular countries, each of which has its own way of doing things and its own particular characteristics. Tajikistan aims to achieve maximum progress in the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. Despite the difficulties we face, we have made real progress towards attaining them. According to the World Bank, noticeable positive changes have occurred in the area of poverty reduction: in recent years the number of people living below the poverty line has decreased by 16 per cent. It is clear that progress has been made in ensuring food security, which is among the key priorities in Tajikistan. The Government’s objectives include the development of agriculture and the creation within it of a viable private sector, and, at a minimum, a threefold increase in the income of rural households. We fully agree with the conclusions reached in the Millennium Development Goals Needs Assessment report submitted to the Secretary-General by a team of experts led by Jeffrey Sachs, which state that Tajikistan has a unique opportunity to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, in the context of their major parameters, by 2015. Successful achievement of the envisaged targets will allow Tajikistan to become, in Central Asia, an example of an emerging democracy characterized by equality and prosperity. Tajikistan is currently at a turning point in its development. The armed conflict was resolved within a short period of time, and the complex peacebuilding phase, which is being successfully implemented with United Nations support, is approaching its conclusion. Over the last five years, with the involvement of the United Nations Office in Tajikistan, the country has successfully travelled the difficult road of national reconciliation, enhancing its stability, establishing democratic institutions, promoting the rule of law and ensuring respect for human rights. Stability and the implementation of first- generation reforms have brought about a speedy increase in gross domestic product, with an annual increase of 9.3 per cent over the past five years. The rehabilitation of the country's economy is progressing. At the same time, the Republic's authorities have a clear idea of the scale and complexity of the problems facing the country and are fully aware of their responsibilities in addressing social and economic problems, and they are undertaking every possible measure for their resolution. Tajikistan is one the first countries in the world to have generated, with the assistance of the United Nations, an estimate of the overall costs and resources required for the implementation of the MDGs. The Millennium Development Goals Needs Assessment identified the fundamental structural and institutional reforms needed in Tajikistan to create an enabling environment for achieving the MDGs; policy priorities in respective sectors; and financial schemes for funding the development of rural areas, the educational and health systems, the water supply and sanitation infrastructures, and the environment. According to The Millennium Development Goals Needs Assessment, Tajikistan will need about $13 billion over the next 10 years to achieve the required progress in the implementation of the MDGs. However, the Millennium Development Goals Needs Assessment is only the first concrete measure. Based on that document, a National Strategy for Development for 2006-2008 and a more detailed 24 Strategy for Poverty Reduction for 2006-2008 are currently being elaborated in Tajikistan. These measures, undertaken by the Government of Tajikistan, fully accord with the decisions of the summit on the elaboration of national strategies for development. Tajikistan's social and economic development will depend largely on the international community's approach to addressing existing challenges, including poverty eradication; development financing; the creation of an equitable system of world trade; the alleviation of the consequences of natural disasters; and the resolution of demographic problems. That is why the summit's decisions on such a crucial issue as development financing are of pivotal importance for Tajikistan. Allow me briefly to touch on some key issues. I turn first to needs related to official assistance for development. In cooperation with United Nations experts, we assessed our needs in this area in a detailed and transparent manner. Currently, our financial requirements for sustainable development considerably exceed the available federal and external resources. Of the $930 million that international donors have committed to allocate to Tajikistan during the period 2003-2005, only 40 per cent has actually been provided. We call on the international community to double, at a minimum, existing aid for the implementation of the MDGs. Reducing the burden of foreign debt is of special importance for us, since the funds released can be invested in development. Due to the efforts undertaken by the Government to reduce the burden of servicing foreign debt, some progress has been achieved in the restructuring of bilateral debts in recent years. However, in the near future, the debt burden will remain heavy. According to estimates, this year debt will equal more than 40 per cent of gross domestic product, and it will continue to pose a threat to the macro-economic stability of the country and to plans for development. The economy and trade in Tajikistan depend to a large extent on favourable conditions in the world market. Tajikistan hopes for the successful completion of the Doha round of trade negotiations within the World Trade Organization, in order that it may fully realize its potential in the field of development and so that progress can be made towards an open and equitable system of world trade. Lack of access to the sea and remoteness from world markets significantly increase transit transportation expenditures, make it harder for the country to participate in world trade and directly affect the poverty rate in the country. In that context, the promotion of regional cooperation, primarily with neighbouring countries, is a key factor for the achievement of the MDGs in Tajikistan. Our region faces specific problems, given that the establishment of an environment conducive to developing trade relations and the promotion of economic relations as a whole depends, in many respects, on the success of the stabilization and peacebuilding processes in neighbouring Afghanistan. With respect to the country's post-conflict rehabilitation, it is clear that, at the regional level, active involvement by the States of Central Asia neighbouring Afghanistan in its development will be key to the success of the efforts undertaken there. In this connection, Tajikistan believes that it is absolutely essential that Afghanistan share in the multifaceted process of regional cooperation. We expect our region's leading international partners to provide appropriate support for that process. Indeed, that issue could be considered by the new United Nations Peacebuilding Commission. Although we rely on international assistance, the Government of Tajikistan is making increased efforts to utilize the country's own capacity to the fullest extent. Tajikistan's water resources offer enormous advantages in terms of the implementation of the MDGs. Unfortunately, less than 5 per cent of their potential is currently being exploited. Rational and fair management of water resources will contribute directly to progress towards the MDGs by helping to address challenges related to, inter alia, food security, employment, sanitation, the reduction of disease and increased school attendance. Our common goal is to develop a qualitatively new pattern of sustainable water resource management and to address water economy challenges at the national, regional and international levels by bringing together international community support and national efforts, while ensuring that the countries themselves and even subregions facing water supply problems play the leading role. We expect all countries and all of the specialized agencies of the United Nations to take an active part in events relating to the International Decade for Action 25 'Water for Life', the success of which will depend on joint activities being undertaken. That should make a common, tangible contribution to the future of humankind. As a country that has lived through civil conflict, Tajikistan considers progress in the implementation of the MDGs to be of special significance. The successful social and economic development of the country is the key to preventing a recurrence of such conflict. Our experience teaches us that creating conditions that can prevent the resumption of conflict and strengthen the process of advancing social and economic development in countries that have lived through such conflict must be among the key goals of the international community. In this connection, we fully share the conviction that the United Nations must focus on overcoming and preventing conflict and on post- conflict rehabilitation and development. We hope that the new United Nations Peacebuilding Commission will expand the capacity of the international community to respond to the needs of post-conflict countries and allow a direct link to be made between security and development. The Economic and Social Council is called upon to play its role in that process. Tajikistan, which suffered in its struggle for independence, has resolutely set out on the democratic road towards development, and will not turn back. The international community, first and foremost the United Nations, has made an enormous contribution in that regard, and for many years we have benefited from its generous assistance and selfless support. We are convinced that the United Nations should remain the key body for regulating international relations in the new millennium. We are working on the assumption that the consolidating function of the United Nations should be enhanced. The reform of the Organization should be rational, and the renewed United Nations itself should be strong and capable of responding to world events in a swift and proper manner so that it can effectively counteract the many global challenges and threats of a new generation. Tajikistan will make its own contribution in that area with a view to strengthening the United Nations and enhancing its role in the modern world.The Republic of Equatorial Guinea is participating in this debate with hope and optimism that we will see the United Nations system strengthened once again so that it can effectively carry out its mission as the centre of global equilibrium in order to attain the objectives established at its creation in 1945. Indeed, the United Nations was created to defend and promote the rights of persons and the dignity, freedom and equality of human beings. The United Nations was created to promote the equality of all nations, mutual respect, solidarity and the promotion of cooperation among States on an equal footing and for mutual benefit. Another of the objectives established was to promote the global development of nations through a just and equitable economic system that would protect the interests of all countries, rich or poor. The United Nations must be given the international authority it needs to establish peace, order and stability in the world, serving as a centre of universal equilibrium with the capacity to resolve conflicts arising among States. Force must be used only in conformity with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations, with the prior consent of its competent bodies, because the undue use of force can disrupt international peace and security in an unforeseeable manner. We hope that the United Nations system will be the inspiration for a democratic culture and for human rights, serving as a model and guide for the internal organization of its Members. We therefore support the creation of a Human Rights Council that will be very closely involved with human-rights-related issues in each country and that will have relevant competencies to support the affected countries with regard to the decisions and recommendations of the Economic and Social Council. The democratization of societies and good governance are concepts universally accepted by States. Therefore, there is no need to adopt coercive mechanisms against any State to ensure their implementation. All that is needed is to assist and guide each State as to how it should assimilate democratic concepts in accordance with its economic, social and cultural realities. For all those reasons, we believe that, 60 years after the Organizationís founding, the social and political circumstances that prevailed in 1945 have lost their validity because of the very dynamics of the development of modern societies. Today, we are in the best possible position to rethink the responsibilities of the United Nations and its Members in the light of the aforementioned objectives, bearing in mind todayís circumstances and the experience accumulated in the 60 years of its existence. We recognize that the task is very difficult and complex, taking into account the various interests that converge as we consider reforming the entire United Nations system. That is why we congratulate you, Mr. President, on the confidence that the international community has placed in you and in your Government to moderate this important debate. We hope that your skill and professional experience will be put to good use so that we can attain our objectives. We believe that in this effort, we must give priority to the spirit of democracy and the interests of humankind, because democracy, as the expression of the popular will, and compliance with consensual norms both involve respect for the collective will. We also believe that the United Nations could not impose order and justice on a human community dominated by the various cultural, economic and political interests of its Member States without recourse to the democratic principles to which all of us are bound. In that connection, the Security Council, as the organ that must demand universal compliance with its decisions, must be the first to act under democratic criteria. For my country, the needed reform of the Security Council does not involve an increase in its membership or, even less, an expansion of the right of 30 the veto. We must examine the reasons for the Security Councilís failure since its creation in 1945. In fact, if there is something that should be done to reform the Security Council, it is to simply revoke the right of the veto enjoyed by some of its members as a concept that was created only because of the conflict between two opposing ideological systems within the United Nations system. The veto has never allowed the consensus or majority sovereign expression of the Security Council; it has served only as a way in which to block the popular will so as to protect the interests of the Power exercising the veto. In the present circumstances of a unipolar world, we do not see the need to exercise the veto in this United Nations body. Many just resolutions have been vetoed despite the fact that they have sought the common good, and we have seen the negative results. If the veto must be maintained in the Security Council because of interests, we ask that Africa also have that right, because, like any other regional group, that continent has many interests to defend. When the Security Council is democratized we ask that its decisions be binding and that those who do not comply with them be properly sanctioned. This would give teeth to its decisions. Non-compliance with the principles and resolutions adopted by United Nations bodies creates impunity unless disciplinary measures are taken against those who are in breach of them. In this regard, Equatorial Guinea strongly regrets the failure to take measures against the terrorists who tried to overthrow the established constitutional Government on 6 March 2004 despite identification of nationalities of the terrorists and despite Equatorial Guineaís request to the Governments concerned. The United Nations must clearly define the phenomenon of terrorism and in so doing avoid confusion with what is interpreted as legitimate armed intervention. Humanitarian intervention cannot be carried out on the basis of an individual interpretation, but rather must be justified by the competent institutions of the United Nations system. Questions related to organized transnational crime, such as terrorism and mercenary activities, must be the subject of a special session of the General Assembly to deal with criminal acts such as those of 11 September in New York, 11 March in Madrid and events in London, Russia, Morocco, Tanzania, Kenya and the mercenary attack in Equatorial Guinea and to adopt measures that can avert the loss of innocent life. In Equatorial Guinea, the integration of women into our development process is receiving the Governmentís utmost attention through the design of literacy programmes for them and their gradual integration in economic activities and political institutions with a specific percentage reserved for women. Lastly, we want environmental problems, whose effects are of unforeseeable magnitude in each State, to be addressed with due sensitivity, respect and solidarity, in the same way as questions of world peace and security. We reaffirm that the primary responsibility for promoting sustainable development in each country resides directly with the Government concerned. Multilateral and bilateral assistance only complement the efforts of States themselves and provide guidance for what must be accomplished internally by each country. Among these efforts, Equatorial Guinea supports the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative proposed by the United Kingdom. Nonetheless, we believe that transparency must be required not only of Governments but also of the economic players that control these industries. It is, therefore, necessary that an international monitoring body be established to intervene in the activities of both Governments and economic enterprises. We welcome the report submitted for the Assemblyís consideration as it contains important recommendations, above all regarding the development programme. I wish to conclude by calling for greater solidarity and a spirit of commitment from all the Members of the United Nations so that we can make this Organization an ideological model that serves the aspirations of present and future generations.I should first like to congratulate Mr. Jan Eliasson on his election as President at the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. I assure him of my delegation’s full support for the important work to be accomplished at this session. I would also like to extend my gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping for his tireless efforts and vision for change he has demonstrated so amply during his presidency. (spoke in English) Our Organization is now at a turning point in its history. Sixty years after its founding, having confronted many challenges, faced many threats, been defied by so many conflicts, the United Nations is now entering the twenty-first century with the obligation to reform itself. The bipolar world has come to an end, and new threats of a global nature have emerged: international terrorism, conflicts of a different breed, development and global environmental challenges. I want here to renew to the delegation of the United States of America a message of solidarity from the Georgian people in the face of the New Orleans tragedy. Our Organization has no other choice but to adapt, to find new instruments and to establish a renewed credibility, which can only be based on a proven efficiency, results and visible effects. Words do not suffice; deeds are expected from us all. 31 We consider the outcome document adopted by the 2005 High-level Plenary Meeting as a substantial step in the right direction. This document deals with all the real issues that, as we all know, are going to define tomorrow’s world and affect our Organization’s fate. Whether we are talking about eradication of poverty, consolidation of peace and security, protection of human rights, protection of displaced persons, need for an effective system of peacekeeping and for a coherent approach to peacebuilding, negative effects of transnational crime, responsibility to protect populations from ethnic cleansing or whether we reaffirm the absolute necessity of a dialogue among cultures and civilizations, all these challenges are of direct relevance for my country. For Georgia, these threats are not words, these ills are not theory, they are daily realities and directly experienced tragedies. Our support for an effective reform is not a rhetorical stand. Our vital interests are at stake; the future of my country is at stake. Georgia is directly experimenting on its soil the consequences of so-called frozen conflicts. Frozen conflicts lead to the freezing of the economic development of these separatist regions. They freeze the democratic development of the society in those regions. They isolate them and close them, transforming them into outlaws, “black holes” where all kinds of trafficking and criminal activities, possibly including terrorist activities, could develop outside our control or any form of control, outside any law. Frozen conflicts, as well as active conflicts, call for the development of a real capacity of the United Nations for effective involvement through instruments of peacebuilding. For many years the United Nations has been dealing with the Abkhazian conflict, but unfortunately it has not managed to obtain effective results. It has proved unable to this day to deploy the small police component that was decided upon, unable to implement fully its own resolutions, unable to deploy an effective peacekeeping capability, unable to monitor the human rights violations that are occurring daily and frequently. Gradually, despite the United Nations, despite regular meetings of the Security Council, and despite the Secretary-General’s Group of Friends of Georgia, a regime of apartheid prevails under which Georgians are excluded and forbidden to go back to their land and their homes, and a process of covert annexation is taking place. Thus, Abkhazia will be a litmus test of the renewed efficiency of our Organization, of its capacity to monitor effectively, to manage peacekeeping operations without having to delegate its responsibilities to third parties and to enact finally strategies of effective peacebuilding. In the case of the South Ossetian conflict in Georgia, we have a similar situation. The President of Georgia has presented two mutually reinforcing peace proposals within a year. One proposal introduced last year before this Assembly set out the three phases for ending the conflict: demilitarization, economic rehabilitation and political dialogue. In December 2004, it was complemented by a full-fledged proposal on a status of broad autonomy, prepared together with the Council of Europe’s Commission for Democracy through Law (the Venice Commission) and presented to the Council of Europe. But peace plans are not enough. We now need a mechanism through which the international community will effectively support initiatives and policies that are directed towards peaceful resolution of conflicts. For all these reasons, we are taking the outlines of the new document very seriously and want to see it fully developed and implemented. We welcome and support the creation of an initial operating capability for a standing police capacity. This is a very right step in the very right direction. We welcome the creation of a Human Rights Council. This new body should be more representative, should comply with the highest standards of objectivity and should avoid double standards as well as omissions or silences. An effective monitoring system should be put into place. The strengthening of the Office of the Commissioner for Human Rights is also a step in the right direction. We welcome the creation of a Peacebuilding Commission that will develop integrated strategies for post-conflict rehabilitation and recovery. We also need a more effective framework for moving smoothly from peacemaking to peacebuilding, while developing an all-inclusive and coherent strategy within which the United Nations will fully assume its responsibilities. The new Peacebuilding Commission should be fully representative of the countries that have been or are the most directly affected by conflicts. Also, given the special fate of women and children in conflict and post-conflict situations, gender representation should be given additional attention. “Representation is essential”, “Knowledge is key” — as we, female foreign 32 ministers, have mentioned in our letter to the Secretary- General and the President of the General Assembly. Finally, Georgia supports the reform and revitalization of the Security Council — a more effective and efficient, more democratic, more transparent body is called for. Georgia supports the enlargement proposals in order to give non-permanent members a better chance to contribute to major decisions. Transparency and improved decision-making procedures are a must. Georgia is convinced that if there is an adequate political will, the relevant agreement on a reformed Security Council can be reached at the present session of the General Assembly. This is our wish. Moreover, this is a necessity. Our credibility is at stake. Today not only the United Nations but all the major international organizations are going through a difficult process of adjustment, of renewal and reappraisal. That is the case of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the European Union, the Council of Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States. Some will survive and grow stronger. Some will have to yield ground to other forums that are more flexible, less bureaucratic and more in line with today’s realities. The United Nations has today started an invaluable process of readjustment and rejuvenation. If our work is successful, this process will go to its term. The United Nations will cease to be a mere forum for calling for peaceful solutions; it will become the instrument the world needs, the instrument for resolving the conflicts that tarnish the image of today’s global world, the instrument for effectively responding to the newer global threats that endanger our development and our stability.I would like to offer my congratulations to the President on his election. In doing so, I assure all our fellow members of Brunei Darussalam's continued strong support for the United Nations. Much of the attention at almost every great international meeting for the past four years has been given to the inhuman acts of global terrorists. Inevitably, this has focused on specific events. That is understandable, of course, and we in Brunei Darussalam again add our voices to the condemnation of all such actions. We offer our deepest condolences to the families of all who have suffered losses. Nevertheless, as we meet our respected fellow Members of the United Nations, we again state what we have continuously said since the onset of the current wave of global terrorism. These brutal attacks extend beyond personal grief and national 13 condemnation. They are symptomatic of many grave threats the people of the world face today. As such, they constitute nothing less than an attack on world order. For this reason, we believe it is high time the world order asserted itself in modern terms. In other words, a new, revitalized United Nations is called for ó not for us as Heads of State, or for our diplomats, or for any of us who are privileged and have the means, the education and the opportunity to live in hope and confidence. A new United Nations is needed by the ordinary citizens we are privileged to represent here. If world order is indeed under attack, that means ordinary people and their families are also under attack. In far too many ways, it is not merely an attack. It is an all-out assault. It comes not merely from criminal terrorists: it comes from many aspects of globalization, from international crime, from new technology, from social and cultural disruption, from a rapidly degrading environment and from the grave threats posed by the possible spread of fearful new diseases. In real, immediate human terms, it comes from fear, from injustice, from a loss of absolute values and from sheer rage. It is revealed in feelings of hopelessness and an almost total loss of confidence. Many of us here, especially those from small developing nations, are, therefore, convinced that world order must be dramatically strengthened. As I stated at the High-level Plenary Meeting two days ago (see A/60/PV.6), there is no greater way to begin this process than for each of us to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). For this reason, we in Brunei Darussalam will do whatever we can to achieve them in our own country and to help our neighbours do likewise. In setting the Millennium Goals, we recognized that, in order to re-establish world order, the root causes of anger, despair, injustice and hatred must be addressed. I would, therefore, once more like to commend the Secretary-General and his staff and the United Nations agencies, both professional and volunteer, for all they have done in the field to deepen our understanding of those causes. The causes have become clearly defined in all their urgency. They are political, social, cultural and economic. In each case, we do not believe that solutions can be imposed. When the international community is so gravely divided on matters such as nuclear development, arms proliferation, globalization, the environment and social injustice, this body must be the judge of whether international conduct is acceptable. Solutions to international problems must come from truly united nations acting in concert. In other words, the United Nations must be an efficient world organization committed to tackling root causes and insisting on dialogue and negotiation as the sole means of settling disputes, no matter how long it takes and no matter how frustrating the process may be. The global crisis arising from the search for the best way to deal with modern, technology-fuelled terrorism highlights that need. For many years, we have maintained that understanding root causes must be a very important part of any long-term approach to tackling terrorist activities. Of course, every possible form of bilateral and multilateral cooperation is needed to deal with the criminals involved. But condemnation is not enough, and legislation is never sufficient. All attempts to justify acts of terrorism must be resolutely countered, not by exchanges of opposing definitions of evil but by determination to eradicate all possible root causes, which some may wrongly see as justifying such acts. That is very difficult. It requires consensus here at the United Nations on what constitutes injustice, especially historical injustice, and on what constitutes unfairness. That, in turn, demands a new, reformed United Nations. We are a small nation. Our interest lies in working closely with all other Members. For that reason, we shall offer whatever help we can to building the broadest possible consensus on all the many far- reaching decisions that the Organization is currently called upon to make. The most important of those decisions at present concerns the question of United Nations reform. Like many of our fellow Members, we have long given our strong support to reform. In recent months, we have held discussions with many colleagues that go far beyond matters of principle; they have dealt with specific proposals. Most of them aim at redesigning the structure of the Organization, including the Security Council. Our response has been the one we have always offered. We will listen with respect. We will acknowledge the good faith of all our fellow Members, and we will help in any way we can to achieve the broadest possible consensus. That, we think, is not a 14 way of avoiding the hard decisions that have to be made. On the contrary, we believe it serves to recognize how hard those decisions are and how important this body is to the world. The consensus that was reached 60 years ago was a strong one. It served the world well for many decades. It now appears very clear that, although the structure of the United Nations remains in place, the world has changed enormously. A new consensus is being sought. Unlike the consensus reached at the end of the Second World War, it is not directed at the means to maintain peace; it is aimed at creating the conditions for lasting peace. We see that as the only way for the United Nations to block all forces of violence and inhumanity by means of a strong and just world order. When it is time for the Assembly to decide, we in Brunei Darussalam will consider all proposals in that light.I am pleased to commend the President, and the other 29 members of the Bureau on their election. We assure them of our full willingness to cooperate in the tasks facing us. We arrived at this session of the General Assembly with the same conviction and resolve that we had 60 years ago. We still believe that this is the place where we can collectively promote human rights, development, solidarity and peace. The political agreement reached last week, although it did not meet all our expectations, enables us to embark on the path towards comprehensive and balanced renewal of the United Nations system. We have the necessary mandates to begin renewal during this session. That must be possible, because our interest is the interest of humanity. We have here an exceptional opportunity to strengthen multilateralism and to build it within the genuine framework of international coexistence. Multilateralism is the very cornerstone of our foreign policy. In the multilateral system, negotiation and consensus are the tools to create international regimes that promote globalization in a legitimate and effective manner. The United Nations is a unique forum in that process, and we must strengthen it in order to achieve those goals. Hence, the urgent need to implement United Nations reform. We believe that multilateralism can furnish us both with more and better instruments to allow every country, large or small, to participate in the elaboration of rules and in the allocation of the benefits of globalization. We are convinced that globalization is more of an opportunity than a threat. For that reason we must assure the management of globalization, which can be achieved only through institutions that conform to clear, stable and equitable rules of the game within the context of international law. Economic forces do not act in a political vacuum, which is why we need both a new architecture and new working methods in the United Nations system. It is in that spirit that Chile has taken an active part in various meetings concerned with the revitalization of the United Nations, promoting comprehensive reform in the major areas of development, security, democracy and human rights. I would like to touch briefly on each of those areas. Protection of human rights is, in our opinion, the central issue of globalization and a continuing preoccupation in the recent history of Chile and Latin America. That history has been written by the citizens and their struggles to restore respect for the dignity and rights of the individual. Indeed, human rights are a legitimate concern of the international community. Examination of human rights issues by the United Nations does not constitute undue interference. On the contrary, it is the exercise of a shared responsibility, from a standpoint of cooperation and not of confrontation. When States are unable or unwilling to act, the Organization cannot remain indifferent in the face of genocide, ethnic cleansing, war crimes and crimes against humanity. The responsibility to protect is an international moral obligation that we cannot shirk. For Chile, the decision to establish the Human Rights Council is a significant step towards universal protection of human rights. We hope that before the end of the session, its characteristics, including its status as a permanent organ, will have been defined. The election of its members by a two-thirds majority of the Assembly, as we propose, will strengthen that organ’s legitimacy. Comprehensive reporting by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner would also enhance the credibility of the multilateral human rights system. In order to avoid the politicization and selectivity that are harming United Nations human rights work, a peer review system would promote greater cooperation, with all countries subject to objective evaluations — particularly for those that aspire to seats on the Human Rights Council. Democratic values are cross-cutting: they apply to the citizens who participate in the life of a community, they underlie the organization of government and public institutions, and they are also the linchpin of international coexistence. Democratic values are a priority on the multilateral agenda and should be reflected in the active commitment of Member States to promote and defend democracy. It was that interest that has motivated Chile’s efforts within the Community of Democracies. While some peoples and regions are part of global society and participate in decision-making and in the distribution of global output, others are marginalized and lack access to those benefits. That situation raises important questions about democratic participation. It is therefore essential, if we wish to consolidate democracy in the world, to move 30 decisively to eliminate inequality and to abolish exclusion. A better quality of democracy is linked to social integration and poverty relief. In that connection, the Millennium Development Goals represent a global commitment to fundamental rights, with social underpinnings, that must be achieved in order to effectively consolidate democracy and uproot moral indifference towards the unprotected of the world. The deepening of democracy must aim at institutional capacity-building in order to meet the demands of society in an effective and transparent manner. We have been working along those lines in the Organization of American States, in particular through the Inter-American Democratic Charter, seeking formulas and instruments to improve democratic governance. Chile believes that that is an area in which there should be close cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations. The reaffirmation of democracy as a universal value by heads of State and Government in the outcome document represents concrete progress in the consolidation of a new international regime for the promotion and protection of democracy and the rule of law. The creation of the United Nations Democracy Fund gives us a new forum for cooperation to help strengthen and consolidate democracy around the world. In April, 108 countries from all continents agreed on the “Santiago commitment: Cooperating for Democracy”, which contains guidelines for action. We have fully endorsed the concept of multidimensional security in order to meet old and new threats. Indeed, the incorporation of the concept of human security at the United Nations is an important contribution to the process of renewal. The definition to be formulated by the General Assembly should incorporate the progress achieved by the Human Security Network, in which Chile has actively participated from the outset. We were greatly discouraged that no agreement was reached to include the topic of disarmament and non-proliferation in the reform process. That is a topic that must not be dropped from the United Nations agenda. We therefore supported the Norwegian initiative, which succeeded in bridging the gap between opposing positions. Unfortunately, despite receiving the support of nearly 80 countries, the initiative did not find a place in the outcome document. We will continue to work for its adoption. In addition, we are convinced that terrorism must be tackled through a global and sustained strategy, with the cooperation of all States and international and regional organizations, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and international law and with full respect for human rights. We must therefore channel our strong condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations into the political will to conclude an international convention against terrorism before the end of the session. The decision to establish a Peacebuilding Commission is one of the major successes of the reform agenda, as it will enable the Organization to provide an institutional and integrated response in post-conflict situations. United Nations activities should not cease as soon as a crisis ends but — to build a durable peace — should continue until institutions are rebuilt and peaceful coexistence is restored. As Latin Americans, and aware of our global responsibilities, we are actively participating in the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti. We are convinced that that joint commitment, which is strongly regional in nature in Latin America and the Caribbean, has been helpful in enabling Haiti to recover its ability to control its own destiny. This will undoubtedly require the continuing presence of the international community. The elections are an important step, which Haiti should take on schedule. Voting, however, is only the basis for self- determination: we must continue helping to create the prerequisites for a worthier future for the Haitian people. Moreover, Haiti could be the first trial run for the Peacebuilding Commission. Overcoming poverty, hunger and social inequality is the great challenge facing our peoples today. Economic development with equity is essential in order to achieve a world truly at peace and to guarantee individual rights and stable democracies. A few days ago, heads of State or Government reviewed the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), adopted in 2000. Our country met over one third of the Goals and hope to achieve them all by 2015. 31 In order to achieve economic development with equity, each country has a responsibility to be assumed domestically and tasks to be performed internationally. In this connection, it is essential to work to implement the Monterrey Consensus on financing for development, so that in its domestic efforts each country can enjoy the benefits of an international economic environment facilitating poverty relief and permitting sustained development. We were among the sponsors of the Action against Hunger and Poverty, which seeks to devise innovative financing arrangements to combat this problem within the framework of the international community’s endeavours to attain the Millennium Development Goals. We need responses now, and the Action is a definite option recognized in the Summit Outcome. Chile considers it essential to bolster overall efforts to liberalize international trade for the exports of developing countries and to achieve stable financial flows to their economies. We urge the speedy conclusion of the Doha round, to which we are committed, and a remodelling of the international financial architecture to promote international conditions favourable to the sustained growth of the developing countries and to the elimination of poverty. Development, security and human rights for all are three interdependent concepts that dominate our existence as societies and that must be adequately reflected in a comprehensive reform process. We have embarked on the decisive stage of the road to renewal; we are all responsible for reaching the end. We must make progress towards consensus on Security Council reform so that that organ can more democratically represent the new realities of the twenty-first century. It is also essential to renew the Secretariat’s managerial capacity to administer effective and responsibly the resources that we all contribute in order to achieve the purposes of the United Nations. Over and above the legitimate differences that are part of the richness of our diversity, we must build universal agreements reflecting common concerns to ensure the dignity of peoples and the right to live in a more secure world. Let me conclude by saying that this session of the General Assembly is a historic opportunity to promote change. If we do not implement the agreements achieved, hiding behind national interests or narrow cultural visions, we shall be failing to respond to the feelings and expectations of millions of human beings who aspire to understanding among civilizations, a global alliance for development and a reaffirmation of the underlying values of the United Nations. Let us not miss this opportunity. If we do not act collectively today, tomorrow may be too late.Unlike the Israeli Prime Minister, who a few days ago told the Assembly that he had come to the United Nations from Jerusalem, I - a native son of the land - was not able to come here from Jerusalem, because East Jerusalem, the capital of Palestine, still remains under Israeli occupation, despite the numerous United Nations resolutions in that regard. The abnormal situation of the city, which is sacred to the three monotheistic religions, is a clear indicator that we in the Middle East are, regrettably, still far from peace. Only when East Jerusalem is returned to its people, when United Nations resolutions are completely complied with and implemented and when the leaders of both countries are able to come freely from Jerusalem, will we have truly achieved the peace that we have so long awaited. We are now at an important juncture that could constitute the beginning of the road to peace. Israel, the occupying Power, has completed its disengagement from the Gaza Strip with its withdrawal of the settlers, its dismantlement of the settlements there and the departure of the Israeli forces from that territory. In the northern West Bank, some settlers were also withdrawn, and four settlements were dismantled. The end of the colonial settlement of one part of our land - regardless of how small it may be - is an important development, as is the withdrawal of the occupying forces from within that part. It is an important development that resulted from the steadfastness of our people and the growing realization, locally and internationally, of the impossibility of the continuation of the status quo. We recognize that the disengagement required political boldness. But, more important than the disengagement itself, are the way in which it occurred and the context, as well as the steps that will follow. That will determine whether the disengagement will take us further towards a comprehensive settlement and peace, or whether it is actually a step imposed by the realities on the ground and intended to facilitate the continuation of the occupation, the colonization of the West Bank and the obstruction of a final settlement. For our part, we dealt positively with those matters and exerted strenuous efforts to prepare ourselves for assuming our responsibilities, to coordinate the steps to be taken with the Israeli side and to ensure a peaceful and safe atmosphere during the implementation phase. Indeed, we achieved reasonable results in that respect. Despite that fact, however, the basic nature of the plan remains: it was unilateral and did not take into consideration Palestinian interests and positions. Israel, the occupying Power, has left the Gaza Strip completely devastated. Over the years, Israel destroyed Gaza's infrastructure, economic capabilities and social fabric, as well as the Palestinian Authority's security apparatus. Even the areas that had been under the control of its settlements were almost totally destroyed by Israel when it withdrew and left behind piles of rubble, which in itself constitutes a serious problem economically, environmentally and psychologically. Another problem was that Israel left behind, and did not dismantle, what it called houses of worship - which were not supposed to be there to begin with - in total disregard of its legal obligation to return the land to its original condition prior to the occupation. Furthermore, since the disengagement, the Gaza Strip has remained under the control of Israel, which effectively continues to control the airspace, the territorial waters and the borders, thus continuing its control of the movement of persons and goods into and out of Gaza. For that reason, and in the light of the principle of the unity and territorial integrity of the occupied Palestinian territory, the Israeli occupation of the Gaza Strip has not ended and the legal status of Gaza has not changed: it remains part of the Palestinian territory occupied since 1967, including East Jerusalem. Overall, Israel's occupation and colonization of the Gaza Strip constitutes one of the worst injustices in recent history. In addition, it must be clear that the Gaza Strip - which comprises only 6 per cent of the area of the occupied Palestinian territory and which is 30 the most densely populated area in the world - cannot attain economic or political sustainability in isolation from the West Bank: without a permanent link to the West Bank, without freedom of movement and without tangible political progress and similar steps taken there. What Israel is doing in the West Bank, particularly in East Jerusalem, is cause for us to be even more pessimistic. Israel has continued its construction of the wall in disregard of the unprecedented 9 July 2004 advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice and resolution ES-10/15 of the tenth emergency special session of the General Assembly in that regard. As everyone can see, Israel has persisted in committing this grave crime, continuing to seize Palestinian land and attempting to annex it de facto, thereby destroying the livelihoods of tens of thousands of Palestinians, isolating them and imposing on them a totally different way of life and an unacceptable political situation. Israel, the occupying Power, has also continued to establish and expand settlements. It has even devised the so-called E-1 plan to seize the whole of East Jerusalem and connect it to the Maale Adumim settlement, thereby severing the West Bank into two separate parts. All of the foregoing not only is unlawful and inhuman, but will also destroy any hope for a settlement and peace based on the two-State solution. The central mission for the international community now, if we wish to safeguard the future of the Middle East and maintain the prospects for peace, is to bring about a real and complete cessation of all settlement activities and of the construction of the wall and to enforce the rule of law, the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice and relevant United Nations resolutions. That must be our central mission, and whether there is political progress or not, we must accomplish it. But then, how are we to deal with the situation and move forward? First, we need to find rapid solutions for the outstanding issues regarding the Gaza Strip, including the Rafah crossing, the airport, the seaport, the removal of rubble from the Gaza Strip, and linking Gaza to the West Bank. If we resolve those issues we may be able to change the living conditions of the Palestinians there. Secondly, the Sharm el-Sheikh understandings should be implemented, particularly the Israeli withdrawal from cities to pre-September 2000 positions and the release of prisoners and detainees. This could bring about a new reality and begin the process of rebuilding confidence between the two sides. Thirdly, and in parallel with the aforementioned, it is necessary to return to negotiations and begin urgently the implementation of the road map, which lies at the heart of making political progress and is the path to a resolution of the conflict. For our part, we are ready to do this, and to begin final status negotiations immediately, as called for by President Abbas in his speech a few days ago. We hope that the Quartet will use its influence to make that happen, and we also hope that the international community as a whole, represented by the United Nations, will provide the needed support in that regard. Here we must stress the importance of the international assistance being extended to the Palestinian people and the Palestinian Authority. We would like to express our gratitude to all donor countries for their important and considerable contributions. In that regard, I would like to express our appreciation as well for the role being played by Mr. Wolfensohn and his team, in particular for rapidly putting together an assistance programme for the Gaza Strip and for promoting economic development in the entire occupied Palestinian territory. In that regard, the importance of the Group of Eight (G-8) initiative must be emphasized, and we express our hope that all donor countries will support it. We look forward to enjoying a dignified life like all other peoples of the world; we look forward to exercising our right to self-determination and national independence; we look forward to building our institutions and to enjoying a democratic way of life and democratic governance; we look forward to a peace based on two States, Palestine and Israel, in conformity with the 1949 Armistice Line; and we look forward to a just, agreed solution for the Palestine refugees in accordance with resolution 194 (III). We have worked seriously to put an end to the cycle of military attacks and counter-attacks. We undertook a national dialogue that led to a unilateral declaration of ceasefire, and that ceasefire has been respected despite Israel's obstructions and provocations. That effort has led to an improvement in the general atmosphere; it is incumbent upon both 31 parties to strengthen it. For our part, we will continue our national dialogue with a view to establishing a permanent and mutual ceasefire in the occupied Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem, while reaffirming the right in principle of the Palestinian people to resist occupation and to self-defence. We must also reach a commitment by all Palestinian groups for a complete cessation of the targeting of civilians in Israel, which we have repeatedly condemned and which we view as harmful to our national interest. Moreover, we will continue to exert efforts to impose law and order and to enhance our political system on the basis of real democracy, encompassing political pluralism and elections at all levels, including municipal and legislative elections. Israel must stop its attempts to interfere in and sabotage those elections. We will also continue to advance the development of our national institutions in various fields and will continue to try to rebuild the Palestinian economy and to improve living conditions. We must do that comprehensively throughout the occupied Palestinian territory, including, of course, in the Gaza Strip, which has suffered the most extensive destruction. We shall exert our utmost efforts to achieve those goals, even though we realize that they are really the tasks of post- conflict reconstruction and that no other people has realized such goals while still under occupation. Our achievements will inevitably be limited, since Israel, the occupying Power, still controls most aspects of everyday life in the territories. Any progress in that regard will remain directly and organically linked to the achievement of real progress in the resolution of the conflict and the achievement of a comprehensive settlement between the two parties. It seems that Israel and some of its friends now feel that they have succeeded in imposing many illegal conditions on the ground and in creating a degree of vagueness regarding some aspects of the conflict. In that way, they feel that they have an opportunity to undermine the legal foundations of the question of Palestine, to undermine international legitimacy and to erode the neutrality of the United Nations. We, in contrast, believe that situations created illegally will not stand. We affirm that the facts are clear and indisputable, that justice and the rule of law will eventually prevail over force and that the United Nations - the embodiment of the international community - will not forsake its responsibilities and will not relent in the face of continuous violations of its resolutions. We hope that the Israeli authorities will begin to seriously rethink their policies and positions instead of trying to market them in the United Nations and in other international forums. We hope that they will declare their respect for United Nations resolutions and their readiness to implement them, rather than blaming the United Nations for adopting those resolutions. That will be the start of the solution and the start of a final peaceful and permanent settlement, which must be based on law, international legitimacy and United Nations resolutions.Allow me to begin by congratulating the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session, Mr. Jean Ping of Gabon, and all Member States on the successful adoption of the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1). The summit outcome document was the product of months of consultations and negotiations. We wish to we pay tribute to Mr. Ping for skilfully guiding the process to its conclusion. We also wish to congratulate Mr. Jan 33 Eliasson on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. Let me assure him of my delegation’s full support and cooperation in the tasks that lie ahead in this session. By adopting the summit outcome document, we reaffirmed our belief in the purposes and principles of the United Nations and agreed to take appropriate and urgent steps to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). We also committed ourselves to renewing the Organization to make it more efficient, effective and transparent so that it can be more responsive to the numerous and varied challenges and expectations of our times and, indeed, can save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, maintain international peace and security, develop friendly relations among nations and, most important, promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom. We must work together in a serious and concerted manner to achieve the MDGs and other goals outlined in the summit outcome document. We must create a world that is free from hunger, poverty and deprivation. We must create a world of greater economic opportunity for developing countries. We must create a world in which people are free to live in dignity, a world that does not tolerate — or fail to respond by protecting populations under threat of — genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing or crimes against humanity. This is no time for business as usual. We must be urgent and focused in our action. It is a matter of great concern to us all that if current trends persist, many African countries will not achieve most of the MDGs by 2015. Some African countries have actually regressed since 2000 in their efforts to achieve MDG targets. Poverty, hunger and infectious diseases lay waste entire communities and nations, often exacerbate the effects of war and conflict, and make the prospects for recovery infinitely more problematic. Urgent action needs to be taken to reverse those trends. We need greater commitment from developed countries, particularly with respect to increasing official development assistance to at least 0.7 per cent of gross national income, freer and fairer trade and debt cancellation. Let me remind the Assembly that the target of 0.7 per cent of the gross national income for official development assistance was set by our Assembly more than 40 years ago and that, as we speak, only five countries have reached it. The time for speeches and debate is over. We must have action on those issues. Most of us have now come to understand the interconnectedness and interdependence of all nations around the world and the nexus between security and development. Poverty, hunger and deprivation in sub-Saharan Africa are bad for peace and security in all 191 nations represented here today. By recognizing that interdependence, we accept that there are collective responsibilities and obligations, as well as collective benefits and opportunities. The responsibilities include, in the words of the Charter, to “promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom”. We can have neither security without development nor development without security at the national, regional and international levels. It is both unacceptable and unsustainable for one half of the world to live amid wealth and plenty while the other half dies from disease and hunger. Our Governments are judged according to their actions, not according to ideals or principles. Similarly, the United Nations should be judged according to its actions, not according to the values and principles laid out in the Charter. It is our experience that, while the United Nations is immaculate in its values and principles, it has all too often been found wanting in its actions. If there is any advice we can offer to the United Nations on its sixtieth birthday, the advice would be that it must learn from its mistakes and be more effective in implementation. There are probably no States members of this Assembly apart from Rwanda where the United Nations has consistently neglected to learn from its mistakes, resulting in massive loss of life and untold misery. Allow me to explain. It was in 1959, while Rwanda was still under United Nations trusteeship, that the first acts of genocide against Tutsis took place there, leading to the first mass refugee problem on the African continent. The United Nations watched unmoved and no action was ever taken. In the years following 1959, the United Nations stood by in silence and inaction as pogroms took place throughout the country, resulting in massive loss of life and compounding the refugee crisis. More recently, in 1994, while the United Nations had a huge political and military presence in Rwanda, it watched without taking action the planning and 34 implementation of genocide. We all recall the shocking decision of the Security Council to withdraw peacekeepers at a time when hundreds of thousands of defenceless people needed them most. When the genocide was totally consummated, the Security Council mandated one of its members to send troops to the country, which only succeeded in allowing the perpetrators of the genocide safe passage out of Rwanda and into the Democratic Republic of the Congo, from where they have been a major source of insecurity and instability for the entire subregion. Over the last 11 years, our repeated appeals to disarm and demobilize those genocidal forces have, if not fallen of deaf ears, yielded no results. I raise those examples to highlight the fact that Rwanda is probably the country most interested in United Nations reform. We wish to take back home from this meeting a message of hope and a promise to our people that we have reinvented a United Nations that will never betray them again. My Government welcomes the endorsement of the “responsibility to protect” in the summit outcome document. The responsibility to protect includes a responsibility to prevent genocide, crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing, as well as a responsibility to prevent incitement to commit those crimes. But here again, action, not words, will be the measure of our success or failure. How will the United Nations respond the next time action to protect populations is required? Will there be lengthy academic and legal debates on what constitutes genocide or crimes against humanity, while people die? What is clear to us is that no nation or people should have to face the horrors that we faced 11 years ago. Where a State is unable or unwilling to protect its people, as was the case in Rwanda in 1994, then the responsibility to provide such protection should — and indeed must — shift immediately to the international community. Such action should be taken by the Security Council in a timely and decisive manner in order to save the lives of populations under threat. Our pledge of “never again” to genocide should not ring hollow the next time we are confronted with such crimes. A collective international response to genocide includes a responsibility for all States to combat impunity and bring to justice any persons accused of having committed such crimes. We find it inexplicable that, while some States profess commitment to the Charter, human rights and international law, they allow known suspects of the Rwanda genocide to live in their countries and take no action to apprehend them and transfer them to the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda or to Rwanda for prosecution. Those States must be challenged, if necessary by the Security Council, to fulfil their international obligations to apprehend and transfer those fugitives for prosecution. Rwanda, as a country emerging from conflict, understands better the usefulness of and strongly supports the plans to establish a peacebuilding commission. We have indeed seen the United Nations spend hundreds of millions of dollars, if not billions, on peacekeeping missions that leave behind no repaired road or bridge, no rehabilitated school or health centre in the countries where they have been deployed. Instead, they leave behind children who will never know their fathers and are most vulnerable to poverty. Those resources could be better spent to create lasting peace and stability. We must, however, ensure that the commission does not become another bureaucracy that is difficult to access and out of touch with the realities in countries emerging from conflict. It should take a long- term approach to post-conflict recovery and change the current practice whereby short-term approaches to long-standing conflicts mean that we apply mere “band-aid” solutions to highly complex situations. The Commission should consult actively and widely with the countries affected and those countries that have successfully emerged from conflict in the recent past. It must also ensure local ownership of solutions and outcomes so that its work can be sustainable. We believe that the Security Council should be reformed to improve its transparency and accountability. The reform process should enable States that are not members of the Council to participate more actively in its deliberative processes, especially on issues that affect them. A reformed Council should be seen by all States to be more accessible, transparent and credible. Terrorism continues to brutally kill innocent civilians. We must all join hands to fight that evil of our times. My country will continue to lend its support 35 to international efforts to combat terrorism. We welcome the decision to negotiate and conclude a comprehensive convention against terrorism and my country stands ready to partake in that effort. We believe, however, that what is lacking is not a convention but a universally shared commitment to fight the evil. After all, in 1994, we had a Convention against genocide that was 46 years old, and yet genocide occurred in my country. Turning to issues closer to home, we welcome the progress made in the peace process in Burundi. We congratulate the newly elected Government and stand ready to work closely with the Government and people of Burundi and the international community to consolidate that commendable progress. We also welcome the progress being made in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where the Transitional Government has prepared a draft constitution and has begun the process of registering voters for elections. Progress is also being made with respect to the integration of the armed forces. We welcome all those developments, recognizing that they contribute to sustainable peace and stability in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in the wider region. We also stand ready to continue to support the transition process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We would also like to take this opportunity to renew our commitment and support for the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region. My Government looks forward to the forthcoming second summit, to be held in Nairobi in December. The summit must come up with concrete measures to deal decisively with the menace of the genocidal militias that continue to roam freely in the region and frustrate our collective peace efforts. My Government’s commitment to peace and security in the region is demonstrated through our participation in the peacekeeping Mission in the Sudan, where Rwanda is the biggest troop contributor. The role of the international community is critical. In that connection, we would like to pay special tribute to the United States Government for its assistance and support, which have led to the establishment of a tripartite mechanism comprising the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda and Uganda to examine and resolve issues that could result in tensions between the three countries. We also welcome the role of the African Union and the United Nations in advancing the prospects for sustainable peace and security in the region. Finally, let us this time build a United Nations that, in addition to having good words to say about life, is one which nourishes and protects life all over the world.