First, I would like to express my sincere appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Al-Nasser for his dedication during his one-year tenure as President of the General Assembly, as well as to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his assumption of the presidency of the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I would also like to pay my deep respect to His Excellency Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his leadership. One year ago, I started my speech on this rostrum by conveying our outpouring of appreciation to the world (see A/66/PV.19). It has been a year and a half since the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011. The people in the affected areas are making strenuous efforts, with an unyielding spirit, to revive their hometowns. In order to respond to generous support from all over the world, we, the Japanese, vowed before the souls of the victims to hand the lessons learned from the disaster down to succeeding generations beyond our national borders. Japan will continue to share those lessons learned with the world in order to build societies resilient to natural disasters and to make concrete contributions to nuclear safety. The Fukushima Ministerial Conference on Nuclear Safety, which is scheduled for the end of this year, and is co-sponsored by the International Atomic Energy Agency and the third World Conference on Disaster Reduction, which Japan plans to host in three years, will also provide meaningful opportunities to share those lessons. The warning from nature brought on by the unprecedented earthquake and massive tsunami posed a more fundamental question as to how we should sustain our civilization. From the moment of birth, human beings transform their own wisdom into the power to survive harsh natural environments. Despite advanced science and technology in modern civilization, however, the forces of nature have reminded us how weak human beings still are and that they have a fragile existence. Threats that may endanger human existence lie not only in nature, but in advanced civilization itself. There are a number of examples of those threats, such as environmental degradation, terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons. What is required for the human species to be able to keep its presence on Earth and continue to enjoy peace and prosperity? The answer is clear: humans must become wiser. Humans have so far gained abundant knowledge. The revolution in information and communication technology unfolding in front of us is further building up human knowledge on a geometric scale and at an exponential speed. Human wisdom seems to have improved dramatically. However, is that really true? At the forefront of a long human history, we are living in a period of complicated and violent change. Tensions among nations have risen in many parts of the world, with more uncertain prospects for the future. The real test for our survival in this unprecedented period is not how much knowledge and information we have, but to learn the true value of the numerous pearls of wisdom we have accumulated. One of the first such pearls of wisdom humans gained was the power to give adequate thought to not only the present, but also the future. It is also the power to imagine, beyond our own benefits, the benefits to future generations and the power to act on their behalf. Agricultural society, which prompted human beings to adopt a new vista, was made possible through the long- term perspective towards the future that human beings acquired when they waited for the harvest instead of thinking solely about immediate concerns. Now is the time for us to exert our wisdom and build a sustainable future for the sake of succeeding generations. Many countries have built up massive fiscal deficits, therefore fiscal soundness is now a common challenge. If people living now do not overcome deficits by cutting spending and striving to increase revenues, future generations will be forced to repay the deficits. That structure amounts to nothing but current generations exploiting future generations. Democracy has been historically proven to be the best political system. However, we now face the enormous challenge of learning whether or not democracy can maintain fairness between generations across the globe. Under the system of parliamentary democracy, today’s representatives serve people living now; there are no guarantees with respect to properly representing the interests of future generations. The current structure encourages politics that will burden silent future generations by passing today’s problems onto them. We are all responsible for the next generations. This generation must successfully meet the challenges before us, and today’s political leaders must take responsibility now for tomorrow. In order to protect sound democratic societies, now is the time to exert the power to think about the benefits for future generations. Over the past 20-odd years, Japan repeatedly procrastinated in policies and was considered a symbol of a country that delayed decisions. I pledged to change all that and staked my political life on implementing a comprehensive reform of our social security and taxation systems. That reform is an ambitious package of policies developed to support Japan’s social security system by maintaining a stable financial basis in the face of a rapidly aging population and by paving the way for fiscal rehabilitation. It is a comprehensive reform programme that pursues both economic growth and fiscal reconstruction. Japan is taking a firm step towards becoming a country that makes decisions without postponing difficult issues. Another pearl of wisdom that humans acquired came from the possibility of seeing the Earth we live on. I recently had the opportunity to communicate directly with astronaut Akihiko Hoshide from my office while he was orbiting the Earth in the International Space Station. At the time of our phone linkup, a female elementary school student who was in the office with us posed a riddle to the astronaut: “The Earth has air and gravity, but space does not,” she said. “What does space have that the Earth does not?” “The view of the Earth from outside it”, the astronaut replied. That conversation expressed in simple terms what I want to say today. Because we have attained the perspective of being able to see the Earth from outside, humankind as a whole shares the sublime mission of protecting the global environment. We must always return to that perspective, reaching beyond borders and advancing concrete measures to protect the Earth’s environment, which is the a basis of human survival. With the aim of protecting the global environment, a significant outcome for sustainable development was achieved at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) in June 2012. Japan announced its green future initiatives, proposing that we explore sustainable growth in prosperity without the supply-demand crunch of natural resources and energy or damage to the global environment. Japan will implement a low carbon and sound material-cycle society and take the lead in solving the common energy challenges facing the world. To that end, we need more innovation in energy efficiency and renewable energy. In the light of the accident at Tokyo Electric Power Company’s Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power station on 11 March 2011, and with the goal of achieving a society not dependent on nuclear power by the 2030s, the Government of Japan will mobilize all possible policy resources to show the world a model that supports a good balance between the shift towards green energy and economic growth. We will constantly review and re-examine our policies while carefully assessing the outlook for the future, including the international energy situation. Being ever more conscious of our one precious Earth, we must direct our caring attention to the preciousness of each life breathing on the planet. The Japan-led resolution on human security (resolution 66/290), adopted on 10 September, can be a solid guide to visualizing development for the next generation from the perspective of all people, including women and young people. In the light of the common understanding of human security stipulated in that resolution, Japan is determined to contribute to worldwide efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals and to work towards the establishment of the next development framework. The ideal of human security needs particular emphasis with respect to the African continent, which steadily reveals greater development potential but still suffers from many challenges, such as poverty, natural disasters and conflicts. On the occasion of the fifth Tokyo International Conference on African Development, to be held in Yokohama next June, Japan plans to discuss the measures the international community and Africa should adopt and implement. We must completely and successfully meet the challenges that place our precious lives in danger. Afghanistan is making significant efforts towards reconstruction after its prolonged experience of war. South Sudan is also moving forward in its nation-building efforts, and Myanmar has taken steady steps towards democracy and reconciliation. Japan will do its utmost to support and promote peacekeeping, peacebuilding and human security in each of those regions. A third pearl of wisdom that humans obtained was the manner in which human beings settle disputes reasonably under rules. Human beings acquired language and nurtured wisdom, but, even in modern times, they have failed to resist the temptation to solve conflicts by force. Despite two world wars and the two calamities of atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, disarmament, the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the prevention of terrorism remain key contemporary issues. The nuclear and missile issues in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and Iran currently pose serious threats to the entire world. It is essential that all countries coordinate at the United Nations and the International Atomic Energy Agency, including the implementation of Security Council resolutions urging both the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and Iran to take concrete action. Japan, the only country that has experienced the horror of nuclear devastation in war, will continue to carry out its mission of seeking a world free of nuclear weapons. The issue of the abductions by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea represents a violation of basic human rights. That makes it a universal issue and a matter of grave concern to the entire international community. Japan is committed to continuing its utmost efforts to achieve the return of all victims at the earliest possible date, through strengthened coordination with other Member States. Japan intends to maintain its efforts to comprehensively resolve outstanding issues of concern, settle the unfortunate past and normalize relations in accordance with the Japan-Democratic People’s Republic of Korea Pyongyang Declaration. Japan continues to urge the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to take positive steps. Humans have done more than just act on their lust for the use of force. We have also developed the skill to solve conflicts calmly through reason, which we call the rule of law. Every State has a responsibility to safeguard peace, ensure the safety of its people and protect its territorial and maritime sovereignty. Japan will fulfil those responsibilities in accordance with international law. Meanwhile, as globalization proceeds, the challenges confronting the international community are growing increasingly complex, and relations between nations can easily become tense. At this critical juncture, we must establish the rule of law as a basis for global peace, stability and prosperity. Because the rule of law is essential to preventing and resolving conflicts in a peaceful manner, and because it plays a critical role in the maintenance of stable and predictable societies, it must be further enhanced. Any attempt to impose a country’s ideology or claim by unilateral use of force or by threat of the use of force is inconsistent with the fundamental spirit of the United Nations Charter and runs counter to human wisdom; it is thus absolutely unacceptable. It is important to try to further develop international law and ensure that it gets implemented more effectively. I strongly call for leaders to strengthen the rule of law so as to leave future generations with a more peaceful and stable international community. We are currently witnessing the settlement of conflicts between nations on the basis of international law. A typical example is the dispute settlement process of the World Trade Organization, a mechanism that has made it possible for States to solve trade disputes with the common language of law, not by force, in a panel or appellate body. Japan has always valued the rule of law and has contributed to strengthening it. Since joining the International Court of Justice, Japan has consistently recognized the jurisdiction of the Court as compulsory and has taken the lead in practicing the rule of law. Japan is leading the world in its contributions of personnel and financing to international judicial institutions. In addition to having served at the International Court of Justice, Japanese judges have also served at the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, the International Criminal Court (ICC) and the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia. Furthermore, Japan has provided the largest financial support of any country for the latter three institutions. Japan requests each country to kindly offer financial support to the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia, which is facing a severe financial crisis at the moment. Supporting the United Nations in promoting the rule of law continues to be a great challenge. Once again, I call for nations to work in cooperation with the United Nations to recognize the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice, as Japan did, and for non-member countries of the ICC and the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea to join at an early date. There are still a number of territorial and maritime disputes in many parts of the world. It is the philosophy of the Charter of the United Nations and a principle shared by the international community as a whole that disputes should be settled in a peaceful manner on the basis of international law. In all circumstances, Japan is determined to comply with that principle and seek peaceful solutions based on international law. The world should pay greater attention to the role the international judicial institutions play in the peaceful settlement of disputes. Although the Middle East and Africa are still in a tumultuous whirlwind, they are in fact moving in the direction of establishing democracy. Japan will continue to support efforts at democratization and reform of every country. Moreover, we cannot overlook the ongoing violence and suppression in Syria, or the serious violations of human rights with respect to the rule of law. Japan strongly condemns the massive attacks in Syria that have involved tens of thousands of innocent citizens, journalists and aid workers, including Ms. Mika Yamamoto, a Japanese journalist. Japan intends to put more pressure on the Government of Syria, together with the international community, and to extend humanitarian assistance to the people of Syria. Let me emphasize that the international community must secure the protection of civilians and the safety of diplomats and workers of international organizations through the rule of law. Today, violence against that principle cannot be tolerated for any reason. The concept of the rule of law is the foundation for a stable and reliable society, making the movement of peoples and goods more vibrant and serving as a basis of prosperity. I believe that the rule of law can provide important infrastructure for order and prosperity for a network of States centred in the Asia-Pacific region. Japan will vigorously contribute to rule-making efforts to expand trade and investment, build maritime order, including the safety of navigation, and create stability for prosperity. The rules needed by the international community are not simply for solving individual problems. Orderly relations between nations or within international organizations require the rule of law, more specifically, enhanced global governance. Unless all nations fulfil their responsibilities in their respective capacities, we cannot overcome the various common challenges that the world is facing. I hope in particular that emerging countries will fulfil their responsibilities commensurate with their respective national powers. As part of such efforts, it is important that we engage in thorough discussions on how the United Nations should develop in the future. We strongly support management reform at the United Nations. Furthermore, in order for the Security Council to be fully effective, it must be endowed with a legitimacy that reflects the realities of the world today. Japan is ready to take on greater responsibility in the international community. Now is the time to accelerate the stalled process on Security Council reform and to start genuine negotiations. So far I have mentioned three pearls of wisdom necessary for human beings to live sustainable lives in the future, and I have tried to convey Japan’s contribution in each. It is my belief that human beings will continue to adapt to a complex world and become wiser. I believe they will give adequate consideration to future generations and solve disputes calmly through reason based on rules generated from the perspective of looking at the Earth from the outside. Let us take charge of our responsibilities for tomorrow together. The lofty task for us living now is to carry out politics while imagining the benefits for future generations and gather all our wisdom to set a course towards the survival of human beings. I should like to conclude my remarks by pledging to the entire General Assembly that Japan will stand at the forefront of shaping the future of human history for peaceful and aff luent societies.﻿I would like to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić and his friendly country, the Republic of Serbia, on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to wish him every success in conducting our work in a way that restores to the Assembly President his important and neutral role in fulfilling his duties without regard for any political, national or international agendas that violate the rules of international law and contradict efforts to achieve security and stability in the world. We also wish the Secretary-General every success in carrying out his duties and enhancing the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. Our world today faces many events that are affecting its States and continue to cast their shadow on the international arena. Many countries are facing political, economic and financial crises, whose their negative consequences exceed the capacity of States to cope with them individually. While the peoples of the world await effective and coordinated international efforts to overcome those crises, the situation indicates instead an escalation of hegemony and domination over the fortunes and potentials of nations and peoples in a way that contradicts the principles and purposes enshrined in the Charter and the norms of international law. Instead of seeking to contribute to the settlement of regional and international disputes by peaceful means, some well-known countries continue to pursue new colonial policies based on political hypocrisy in dealing with those crises. Under the pretext of humanitarian intervention, these countries interfere in the domestic affairs of States and impose unilateral economic sanctions that lack any moral or legal basis. Under the pretext of concepts such as the responsibility to protect, the drums of war are beaten and the seeds of sedition and unrest are sown to damage the structure of national societies. Perhaps worse of all, permanent members of the Security Council, who have launched wars under the pretext of combating terrorism, now support terrorism in my country, without any regard for United Nations resolutions that established the regulations and mechanisms for concerted international efforts to fight this scourge without political polarization or double standards. For over a year now, my country has faced organized terrorism that has affected our citizens, our human and scientific cadres, our national institutions and many of Syria’s historic and archeological landmarks through terrorist bombings, assassinations, massacres, looting and acts of sabotage that have horrified citizens in many parts of the country. The most recent example is the terrorist bombing that took place in Damascus on 26 September. A terrorist group under the name of the Al-Nusra Front, one of Al-Qaida’s affiliates, took responsibility for that attack. It is no surprise that the Security Council has failed to condemn this and other terrorist bombings, as some of its members support such acts. This terrorism is externally supported and is accompanied by unprecedented media incitement seeking to ignite religious extremism sponsored by well-known States in the region. Those States facilitate the f low of arms, money and fighters through the borders of some neighbouring countries. They also turn a blind eye to the activities of terrorist groups crossing their borders, while others provide active material and logistical support from their territory for such groups. These facts lead me to question whether the international consensus among Member States on combating terrorism was serious or merely ink on paper. How should we understand the explicit request by the United States to the armed terrorist groups not to surrender their arms in response to amnesty decrees and decisions issued by the Syrian leadership? We also wonder about the statements by Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, the United States, France and others who explicitly induce and support terrorism in Syria with money, weapons and foreign fighters. To what extent are those statements in line with those countries’ international responsibility to combat terrorism? One of the ironies that we face today is evident in the efforts to encourage extremists in countries within and outside our region to go to the Syrian border and enter the country to carry out terrorist acts under the banner of jihad, in collaboration with terrorists from within the country. This is a fact that has been confirmed by reports by both international and Arab observers. To this very day, and as a result of this terrorism, Syria has lost thousands of martyrs from among its military ranks and its civilians. This is the price that Syria has paid for its efforts to defend the integrity of the Syrian State and its citizens in the face of that global terrorist campaign. The Syrian Government called for dialogue at the beginning of the events in my country, but there was no positive response from most opposition parties. Moreover, my Government responded positively throughout the crisis to each and every sincere initiative aimed at finding a peaceful solution based on national dialogue among Syrians, rejecting external manipulation, stopping the shedding of Syrian blood and preserving the unity of Syria and its future. Based on this principled position, Syria cooperated with the Arab observer mission and the subsequent international initiatives linked to the work of the Joint Special Envoy, Kofi Annan. We did so despite the conviction of the Syrian leadership that there are no sincere intentions on the part of certain regional and international parties who push for the escalation of the Syrian crisis, fuel its fire and prolong it by thwarting all attempts for dialogue, and insist on creating a state of instability to ensure the need for foreign interference. Syria, on the basis of its principled position, received the United Nations Supervision Mission in the Syrian Arab Republic (UNSMIS), and furnished it with all the facilities needed to enable it to deploy in record time. The Syrian leadership also announced its full commitment to the implementation of the six-point plan presented by Mr. Annan and started the practical implementation of its provisions. It also welcomed the Geneva communiqué (A/66/865, annex) that stressed the need for the implementation of those provisions. However, the armed groups sought to exploit the Syrian Government’s commitment to the plan and the Geneva communiqué in order to make gains on the ground and expand the area of their presence. In addition, the statements issued by some Western and Arab countries exposed the actors and States working to thwart these initiatives. Syria welcomed the appointment of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi as the Joint Special Representative, succeeding Mr. Annan, and stressed its willingness to cooperate fully with him based on the principles agreed on by the international community, in particular the six-point plan and the Geneva final communiqué (S/2012/523, annex). I should point out that, in addition to the commitment of the Syrian Government, the success of any international effort requires that the States supporting armed groups in my country — in particular Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Libya, among others — stop arming, funding, training and harbouring armed terrorist groups, and instead encourage dialogue and renounce violence. For more than a year now, we have said that what my country is witnessing is a two-sided problem: one side is based on the need for the political, economic and social reforms that the public demands; the other is based on the exploitation of those public needs and demands in the service of goals that are completely unconnected to the demands of the Syrian people and their interests, and for which those peaceful demands are being used as a vehicle for armed groups working to sow sedition and undermine security in my country. I referred to that in my statement from this rostrum last year (see A/66/PV.25). I have returned today to tell the Assembly that the Syrian Government has taken serious and important steps towards reform, culminating in a new Constitution that embraces political pluralism and that has been adopted by popular referendum. As a result, parliamentary elections open to multiple political parties were held. I can also say that Syria is continuing to work with patriotic members of the opposition to build a new and pluralist Syria that is responsive to its people’s aspirations. At the same time, Syria is determined to fulfil its duty to protect its people from jihadist and takfiri terrorism, which armed terrorist groups are using to spread chaos and sedition among Syrians, threatening their peaceful coexistence. There have been calls from this rostrum and at other forums asking the President of the Syrian Arab Republic to step down, made by people who are ignorant of or ignore the facts, or who have a stake in distorting them. That is blatant interference in the domestic affairs of Syria, which undermines the unity of its people and the sovereignty of its decision-making. Only the people of Syria have the right to choose their own future and the form of their State — one that accommodates all groups and parties covering the entire spectrum of the Syrian people, including those who have been deceived and misled. It is the Syrian people who will choose their leadership through the ballot box, which is the most important tool of democracy and democratic expression. If some of the countries that are interfering in Syria’s internal affairs are proud of their democracy and their people’s freedom to choose, it would be better for them to support us on our democratic path and leave the Syrian people to choose their leaders through elections, whose form has been set by the new Constitution and the relevant legislation, after which the ballot box will have the final say. I say to those countries that we have had enough of illusions, and I invite the national opposition to work together to stop the shedding of Syrian blood, to sit at the negotiation table and to participate in building the present and future. We are not betting on any party or faction apart from the Syrian people, who are uniformly determined to reject all forms of foreign interference in their domestic affairs and to defeat the advocates of sectarianism, extremism and terrorism, because in my country the links between State policies and the aspirations of the people are very strong. Despite everything I have described about what my country is experiencing, we still believe in a political solution as the essential way out of this crisis. From this rostrum I call, first, on all parties and political groups and factions, inside and outside Syria, to engage in a constructive dialogue under the aegis of our homeland. The doors of Syria, like its heart, are open to anyone who wants constructive dialogue. To that end, I call on all countries represented in the General Assembly to exert pressure to end the violence in my country by putting a stop to the arming, financing, harbouring and training of armed terrorist groups. Secondly, the results of that national dialogue, after being agreed on by all parties, will determine the map and future direction of the country towards establishing a more pluralistic and democratic Syria. The events in Syria have produced a surge in humanitarian needs in several key sectors in areas affected by takfiri terrorist groups, which has led to deteriorating living conditions for Syrian citizens who live there. While my Government is working hard to meet the basic needs of citizens who have been forced to f lee their homes by the violence of armed groups, some have sought to fabricate a refugee crisis in neighbouring countries by inciting armed groups to intimidate Syrian civilians in border areas, forcing them to f lee to those countries. There they are accommodated in military training bases or camps that resemble places of detention, in arid or rugged regions. Their plight is being exploited in order to secure aid that is mostly spent on things that have nothing to do with humanitarian purposes. I appeal to those Syrian citizens from this rostrum to return to their towns and villages, where the State will guarantee their safe return and dignified lives, free from the inhuman conditions they are enduring in those camps. At this point, I would like to ask a legitimate question about the credibility of those who claim to care about providing humanitarian assistance in response to Syrian citizens’ needs, and about how such claims correspond with a policy of tightening unilateral economic sanctions that have a severe effect on those same citizens’ living conditions, whose interests those imposing the sanctions claim to serve. How can imposing sanctions on the banking, health, transport and other sectors be consistent with caring for Syrians’ best interests? I also wonder if the legitimate public demands of our citizens, to which the Syrian leadership has responded transparently and sincerely, justify their being used by some as an excuse to continue providing every kind of military, financial and media support to those who are killing innocent people in Syria — who include journalists, doctors, university professors and even religious figures. Or is this simply another practical interpretation of the concept of creative chaos, which contributes only to strengthening Western hegemony over Mediterranean countries, and serves only Israel’s expansionist interests? What is happening in my country must not lead us to lose our basic focus, which is Palestine and the Syrian Golan. The Syrian Arab Republic therefore reaffirms its natural right to recover all of the occupied Syrian Golan up to the 4 June 1967 borders. Syria underscores its rejection of all measures taken by Israel, the occupying Power, to change the natural geographic and other aspects of the Golan, in clear violation of the resolution 497 (1981). Syria renews its support for the legitimate call on the international community to recognize a free and independent Palestinian State on the Palestinian territories occupied in 1967. As everyone knows, the failure of efforts to achieve a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East on the basis of the international terms of reference endorsed by the international community as a basis for peace between Palestinians and Israelis is due to the unilateral positions and actions of Israel, especially Israel’s insistence on continuing its settlement policy and its evasion of the requirements of peace. My country renews its call for the international community to work to rid the Middle East of all weapons of mass destruction. In that context, we recall the initiative put forward by Syria in late 2003, during its tenure as a non-permanent member in the Security Council for the period 2002 to 2003, and we call on the Council to adopt it. Syria stresses that ridding the region of all weapons of mass destruction cannot be achieved without forcing Israel, the only nuclear Power in the region, to adhere to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and to place its nuclear facilities under the comprehensive inspections regime of the International Atomic Energy Agency. At the same time, we emphasize the Treaty’s provisions guaranteeing the right of every State to acquire nuclear technology for peaceful purposes. The insistence of the United States and countries of the European Union and others to impose unilateral economic measures violates the rules and norms of international law and the principles of free trade. It also raises questions about the legality and morality of such practices. On that basis, we call for the lifting of the embargo that the United States has imposed against Cuba for decades. We also renew our call for ending all unilateral coercive measures imposed on the peoples of other countries, such as the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, Belarus, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Syrian Arab Republic and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. Our aspiration to achieve a positive reform of this international Organization stems from our desire to create a world based on justice, security and prosperity for all the peoples of the world, free from the colonial and hegemonic tendencies of some countries that seek to exploit the United Nations to achieve their own interests at the expense of other countries. We hope that the United Nations can take the peoples of the world to a better future that fulfils their aspirations for life, coexistence, development and food sufficiency, free from all forms of tension, confrontation and war, in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, which seek to preserve the sovereignty and equality of States in rights and duties.﻿It is timely that we are meeting here over the next few days to seek ways and means to prevent and generally manage conflicts. While it may seem that conflict is perennial and its forms increasingly destructive, we have the urgent task of seeking more effective ways to prevent, manage and solve it. The losses we witness or experience on a daily basis in terms of human life and devastation are unacceptable. Moreover, at a time when widespread poverty robs too many people of the opportunity to realize their full potential in life, conflict also diverts us from development. We might ask ourselves why, after decades of efforts to rein in conflict on a global scale and foster multilateral cooperation for sustainable peace, the results are still not where they should be. The reasons for this are several and multifaceted. First, we must appreciate that many conflicts arise when people are, or feel they are, excluded from full participation in the affairs of their country, particularly around issues that affect their everyday lives. Even a cursory look at the conflict hotspots around the world shows us the dangerous consequences of a disenfranchised and despondent citizenry. Durable solutions can come only from an inclusive approach to both politics and development. Secondly, thorough analysis of the specific political and cultural contexts of any given conflict is key to finding lasting solutions. Too often, the inclination is to parachute into a situation with ready- made answers based on a superficial examination of the conflict’s dynamics, doing considerably more harm than good, despite good intentions. There is no one-size-fits-all remedy; these issues are complex and should be approached as such to arrive at the best possible outcome. Thirdly, the links between conflict and development are often overlooked. If we are looking for peaceful ways to resolve and prevent conflicts, promoting development tops the list. The stakes are high. A civil conflict costs the average developing country about 30 years of gross domestic product growth, and violence can easily spill over borders, threatening hard-won progress. Since security and development cannot be achieved without each other, we all — from the average citizen to Government leaders and global institutions like the United Nations — have to play our roles in order to find inclusive solutions for lasting peace and prosperity. Finally, it is increasingly obvious that local or regional initiatives aimed at resolving conflicts yield more positive results because those involved have a deeper understanding of the issues at hand. Their proximity to the conflict makes them more invested in a comprehensive resolution and enables the necessary support for whatever process is agreed upon. We need to see these initiatives strengthened. We should be highlighting root causes as we address conflicts. In the 50 years of our independence and membership of the United Nations, Rwanda has lived through conflicts. Our country was destroyed by political exclusion and subsequent genocide. Over the past 18 years, we have been able to rebuild the country through policies that include all citizens in governance processes and by applying home-grown conflict resolution and development mechanisms. While our experience with the United Nations since becoming a Member has been a mixed one, it has taken on a positive trajectory in recent years, and we are optimistic that it will remain there. The history of how conflicts have been handled in Rwanda, and indeed in our region, however, shows that improvement is needed. It is our obligation to point this out not in order to be critical, but because we subscribe to the ideals and principles on which the United Nations was founded. We can and should do better. Rwanda remains committed to a more effective United Nations, particularly with respect to its work towards a more peaceful, just and equitable world. We will continue to contribute to various programmes for development and peace, from our role in promoting the Millennium Development Goals and supporting the Broadband Commission for Digital Development to our troops participating in peacekeeping missions. We hope to contribute and participate even more going forward. Let me conclude by saying that although the challenge to better prevent and resolve conflict may seem daunting, it remains ours to take on. When we see leaders work with the people in an inclusive manner; when development can proceed unhindered by conflict; when regional groupings take greater responsibility in tackling their own issues; and when international cooperation takes place in a spirit of true partnership, I believe that the results will speak for themselves and billions of lives across the globe will improve. Ultimately, this is what we all should work towards.﻿I would like to begin by extending my warmest congratulations to the President on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I have no doubt that his skills and long experience in international matters are the best guarantee of the success for our work during this session. I also wish to express my strong gratitude to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for his excellent guidance of our work and for the efficiency he showed during difficult moments throughout the sixty-sixth session. I wish him every success in his new responsibilities. The global economic and financial context remains more troubling than ever. The successive and increasing economic and financial crises that began in 2008 affect us all. Both developed and developing countries face an uncertain environment, with economies slowed if not in recession, sluggish growth, crushing debts and deficits that threaten certain States with bankruptcy, as well as growing unemployment rates. In such a context, developing nations, in particular the least advanced, are severely impacted economically as well as socially. The negative consequences for achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) have been enormous. In many African countries, reaching those Goals by 2015 is jeopardized despite the fact that they have spared no effort to step up implementation before the deadline. It is in times of difficulty that we must show responsibility and solidarity by honouring our respective commitments. It is therefore important that the fate of the least advanced African countries be examined with particular attention with a view to helping them lighten their burden, improve their productive capabilities and facilitate access for their products to world markets under more favourable conditions. My Government calls for the comprehensive implementation of the Istanbul Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2011-2020 (A/CONF.219/3/Rev.1). The current financial and economic crises have multidimensional consequences in Africa; any effort to resolve them must take into account Africa’s specific needs and must ensure that commitments made at international meetings are implemented. I take this opportunity to welcome the establishment of a United Nations monitoring mechanism to review the commitments made related to Africa’s development. The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) in June was an opportunity for all Governments to renew their commitment to a sustainable development that embraces the economic, social and environmental spheres. It is important that our shared political will be swiftly transformed into action and that the work we put into the Rio commitments for “The future we want” becomes a reality. The elimination of poverty remains an absolute priority on the path to sustainable development. It is a major challenge for many countries of the world, including those of the Horn of Africa. Our region is suffering enormously from the adverse effects of climate change, and has been for a number of years. Trapped in the cycle of chronic droughts and f loods, our most vulnerable people are seeing their means of subsistence destroyed and their productive capacity and access to sufficient, nutritious food hampered. Our Government has implemented social policies designed to relieve the burden of extreme poverty and its corollary, hunger, and hopes its partners will continue their support by acting in accord with the national priorities, within a long-term approach that will enable us to move from emergency operations geared to the relief of affected populations to a perspective of sustainable development. That means, from the emergency stage onward, a comprehensive global approach accompanied by efforts to guarantee women, children and men the right to food. Guaranteeing food security to our fellow citizens remains our priority. I am convinced that the goals of the Secretary-General’s Zero Hunger initiative are achievable, because they have been developed within the perspective of an integrated, effective strategy to eliminate hunger that involves all actors. I wish to acknowledge the support of our partners, who have spared no effort to help us reach that goal, especially in the efforts to reduce the disparities between rural and urban populations and to develop our agricultural production. In that regard, my country has implemented a number of agricultural infrastructure projects, including the development of arable land in neighbouring countries such as Ethiopia and the Sudan and a project to capture the water of the Awash River on the Ethiopian border when it f loods. Access to potable water and water purification continue to be a critical goal for my country, which is unfortunately on the list of those deficient in potable water and which is considered a country at risk of water shortages in the next 25 years. For most countries in our situation, the effects of climate change accentuate existing disparities. Sustainable development must take an approach focused on meeting the needs of populations. Women, children and young people should be the target of any implementation policy derived from the Rio+20 outcome document (resolution 66/288, annex) and of all discussions geared to formulating the post-2015 development agenda. Human capital is my country’s main asset, and that is why my Government devotes particular attention to its development. Social policies are being developed around the goal of promoting and enhancing the rights and well-being of young people and women. It is a national priority to guarantee gender equality and to empower women through access to health care and protect them from all forms of discrimination and violence. My Government therefore welcomes the African Union initiative recommending that at its sixty-seventh session the Assembly adopt a draft resolution aimed at intensifying efforts to eliminate female genital mutilation from the world. We welcome the measures undertaken by the African Group in New York to that effect. Youth, which is our future, constitutes a sure asset for the African continent. Indeed, almost 65 per cent of the African population is under the age of 35. It goes without saying that addressing their present and ensuring their social well-being is the way to success for our country. The challenges are enormous given the global economic stagnation. My Government has therefore set up social policies and programmes in order to respond to the specific needs of young people in the areas of education, health care and employment. On behalf of the Republic of Djibouti, I would like to reiterate my warmest congratulations to the new President of the Somali Republic, Mr. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud, and to his people on having taken the first step towards the reconciliation and stabilization of Somalia and on having found the necessary resources to overcome all obstacles on the way. The civil and peaceful climate among the candidates at the time of the election and the maturity that they showed throughout an historic and inclusive electoral process must be commended. Those realities are the best guarantee of success for the future. The hope of seeing a reconciled and peaceful Somalia is in sight. A new phase in the country’s political life is beginning for the Somali people after more than 20 years of suffering and violence. The momentum and enthusiasm prompted by those elections among Somalis in the diaspora and within the country are unprecedented. However, at this point it is crucial to address two major challenges. The short-term priorities, namely, security, good governance and economic recovery, are challenges that the Somali Government cannot overcome alone. Somalia is at a crossroads and will need more than ever the support and cooperation of all its partners and friends. Donors and the international financial institutions must stand beside the new Somali leadership in order to help fulfil its new vision and to improve the lives of Somalis as soon as possible. Their action must be strengthened, coordinated and consistent with the priorities of the new Government as there are many challenges to overcome. Those challenges range from restoring the security services to access to justice and from establishing the rule of law to respect for human rights, not to mention the problems of terrorism and piracy off the Somali coast, which will not disappear in the short term. In short, it is clear that the end of the transition in Somalia does not mean the completion of the peace process. Politically, it is important that all phases of the road map be implemented and that the political dialogue continue. From the humanitarian point of view, the situation remains critical. Millions of Somalis need humanitarian assistance and have no means of subsistence. The problem of refugees and internally displaced persons also remains a source of concern. Restoring security and maintaining it is not the easiest thing in Somalia giving the new upsurge in the terrorist acts and guerrilla tactics of extremist groups, such as Al-Shabaab, despite the undeniable success of the troops of the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) and of the Somali and Ethiopian security forces. I would like to pay tribute here to the memory of the late Meles Zenawi, former Prime Minister of Ethiopia, who made peace his centrepiece. I would also like to express admiration for the tireless efforts and heavy sacrifices of the AMISOM troops, the Somali Security Forces and the allied forces. Their contribution was and remains invaluable to improving the security situation in Mogadishu and the surrounding areas. The international community must ensure the continued, predictable and reliable financing of the AMISOM troops so that the reconciliation, stabilization and peacebuilding strategy continues and reaches all Somalia. In that regard, strengthening the security gains is crucial. The countries in the region — Uganda, Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya and Djibouti — have done useful work and continue to serve the noble cause of peace. However, the transformation of the AMISOM forces into a United Nations peacekeeping force now seems inevitable. We can no longer avoid that issue. It is up to the Security Council to take that timely decision. I would also like to launch an appeal for the convening of a donor conference in order to mobilize resources for the reconstruction of the Somali economy. I am convinced that we are all aware of the necessity of meeting the individual recovery, reintegration and reconstruction needs of countries emerging from conflict. Somalia is no exception. Here at the United Nations, we must consider the steps to be taken, in particular by the Peacebuilding Commission. The theme of the General Assembly this year — “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means” — is relevant given the many conflicts in the world that threaten international peace and security. Our region, the Horn of Africa, has unfortunately not been spared. As members know, my country, which had successfully preserved the peace, was attacked and brought into a border conflict by Eritrea in June 2008. Since then, the Government has spared no effort to resolve the dispute peacefully within regional and international organizations. In the conviction that dialogue is possible, my Government accepted the good offices of His Royal Highness the Emir of Qatar and his mediation. On the ground, that took the form of deploying Qatari troops at the border between Djibouti and Eritrea and the withdrawal of Eritrean troops from Ras Doumeira and Doumeira Island. The Security Council adopted resolutions 1862 (2009), 1907 (2009) and 2023 (2011) to express the concern of the international community in the light of that new crisis in the Horn of Africa. To date, two and a half years after the signing of the mediation agreement, we are still waiting for the demarcation of the border and the return of our prisoners of war. The request for the release of the Djibouti prisoners and the implementation of resolution 1862 (2009) remain sensitive issues for my country. My Government remains convinced that mediation is the path that will enable us to achieve peace. We will never stop believing in the virtues of dialogue, which is the only way for our region to strengthen the gains of peace. The events that have taken place in the world in recent weeks following the dissemination of an anti-Islam film and of caricatures denigrating the image of the Prophet of Islam cannot and must not leave the international community indifferent. The tragic consequences that led in particular to the loss of human lives demand our attention. Political and religious leaders and all people of goodwill must form a common front against extremist and fanatical excesses of all kinds. Given the desire of some to spread religious intolerance, States Members of the United Nations must ensure that the provisions of the Human Rights Council consensus resolution 16/18 and General Assembly consensus resolution 66/167 provide the answer. While all legal steps must be taken to ensure freedom of expression, it is just as important that malicious acts that incite people to religious hatred, discrimination, violence and intimidation through negative stereotypes, as well as violence and discrimination on the basis of religion, in particular against Muslims or any other group, must be condemned and rejected, in accordance with the relevant human rights instruments. Given their increasing role in our modern societies, the media and social networks have responsibilities and must be on the side of those who contribute to understanding and respect among the various cultures and civilizations. It is more urgent than ever to be on the side of tolerance, moderation and reason. All initiatives and actions that promote peace in minds and hearts and mutual understanding among peoples must be encouraged. The establishment of the United Nations gave rise to immense hope in the world following the Second World War and symbolized the will of all peoples of the world not to be plunged again into the throes of war. The Organization has been a forum for all nations under colonization and a platform for them to acquire sovereignty and to free themselves from domination. However, it seems that, since 1947, there has been an exception, to the detriment of the Palestinian people. Palestine still lives under occupation, which today is morally reprehensible and politically unacceptable. It is high time that justice be delivered to the Palestinian people and that the peace process between the Palestinian authorities and the occupying force succeed. Freedom, justice, dignity and respect for human rights are the only bastions against extremist excesses. The international community has a moral duty and a political responsibility to put an end to the suffering of the Palestinian people, which has lasted for more than 60 years. History is on the side of those that show the political courage required to achieve peace and to give the peoples concerned hope for a better life. The recognition of a Palestinian State as a fully-fledged Member of the United Nations by the General Assembly is the first step in the solidarity that the international community owes to the Palestinian people, who have shown patience and self lessness until now.﻿I stand here today in order to convey to the General Assembly the sincere regards and best wishes of the people of Iraq, who wish to share in forging closer bonds of amity and cooperation between peoples and countries, at a time when my country is undergoing a structural transformation at every level, a process that will enable it to reform itself, achieve its goals and consolidate its gains. We are building a future through the conscious understanding of our history as the cradle of civilization and where the earliest writing system and codifi cation of laws were born. Iraq has been successful in establishing a democratic, pluralistic and federalist State on the basis of an enlightened Constitution, drafted by our people’s representatives and voted on by our people. Our Constitution lays out the aspirations of our people to a free and decent life based on freedom, democracy and the peaceful transfer of authority, citizenship and human rights. Iraq has regained its security, political and economic health in record time and under extremely difficult conditions, where the forces of darkness had been betting that terrorism would derail the experiment. However, thanks to God and the patriotic vigour and self-awareness of our nation, our people were able to turn the page. Our efforts are based on a cultural history of about 10,000 years and on a great human legacy created by the heavenly messages and laudable human experiences that flourished in our glorious land. Our renewed ambition to build a modern State where the Iraqi people enjoy freedom, development and prosperity requires us to move towards the establishment of good, friendly and equal relations with all nations in the world, within the framework of a cooperative international system governed by clear rules that prevent the problems and crises that could undermine its prosperity and stability. The new Iraq has chosen to embark on the path of cooperation and coordination with the international community in the political, economic and development spheres. Those efforts have been coupled with significant qualitative leaps in our economic growth that will qualify Iraq to return to the realm of the world economy and to emerge within the international economic system, based on a realistic vision that has achieved a number of positive developments over recent years. According to various indicators, our gross domestic product (GDP) has doubled, which has in turn doubled the per capita share of the GDP. According to projections by the International Monetary Fund, Iraq’s GDP is expected to reach approximately $150 billion in 2014. The Iraqi Government has also succeeded in implementing policies to curb inflation and to control governmental spending, in addition to our success in collaborating with the international community to reduce the debt accumulated by the country over past decades. We have embraced a theory of balanced growth in our national development plans for the upcoming years, in which the oil sector is to serve as the engine for other sectors. Iraq has oil reserves amounting to about 143 billion barrels and potential reserves surpassing the current estimated proven reserves, in addition to large reserves of natural gas amounting to 126.7 trillion cubic feet. We expect investments to contribute to substantial development in the oil industry in Iraq through licensing rounds, establishing refineries and other oil- and gas-related sectors and industries. Estimates suggest that from 2017 to 2020 production will reach more than 10 million barrels of oil per day. The development plan will include all sectors and infrastructure in order to provide secure and promising investment opportunities. The Iraqi Government has prepared legislation to promote confidence in the Iraqi economy by providing legal protection for foreign investments in Iraq through the guarantees listed in the investment law itself and through Iraq’s accession to the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency in 2007 and through bilateral treaties to guarantee and protect investments. We were able to establish solid foundations for political conduct, which has matured rapidly as our people have grown to accept those unlike themselves and to live according to the principle of citizenship, the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the freedom of expression. We proudly announce that, owing to our freedom of opinion and expression, we do not have a single prisoner jailed for his beliefs or opinions. In our fight against terrorism, human rights remain a cherished principle that we respect and promote as a just cause. We do not have any justification to tamper with such rights. It is true that confronting terrorism has cost Iraq a lot of blood, tears, sweat and financial resources, but that confrontation has rewarded our people with a permanent immunity against violence. It has also created extreme sensitivity vis-à-vis violence as a means to resolve our strife with others. Therefore, as much as we care about sparing our people the ravages of fighting, we hope that other countries, especially neighbouring countries, will learn from the Iraqi experience and spare their peoples unnecessary turmoil. We call upon them to adopt the principle of negotiation to resolve conflicts and the use of dialogue, logic, reason, laws and the peaceful transfer of power. That is the essence of Iraq’s position regarding the revolutions of the Arab Spring, which we cannot do anything about except to be entirely on the side of the people and their legitimate aspirations, their right to self-determination and the right to choose their own rulers. We share the concerns regarding the issues facing the peoples and States Members of the Organization; those concerns represent a humanitarian, legal and moral burden, because all of us share one world, which is affected by conflicts and their aftermath. Based on that, the Syrian issue and the humanitarian diffi culties facing civilians in that country occupy a great deal of our attention. We think that the escalating violence in Syria is a reason for distress and concern, and it is incumbent upon the leaders gathered here to work in earnest to stop the bloodshed, which claims the lives of tens and perhaps hundreds of people every day in Syria. We would like also to draw attention to the danger of providing the fighting parties with weapons, which only leads to more violence, bloodshed and loss of life. The situation is endangering the social fabric of the Syrian people and may lead to fragmentation and disintegration of that people, whom we cherish and whose unity and sovereignty we care about. We also realize that the facts on the ground suggest that regional and international intervention could adversely impact the Syrian issue and might cause unlimited chaos and devastation that would spare no one, including the interveners. We therefore sincerely call for dialogue and a peaceful solution as the only means to end a crisis that could engulf the whole region and exacerbate the current situation. The events in Syria have demonstrated that resolving the crisis through violence and force could double the costs incurred by the Syrians and the region, for such means only increase the suffering of civilians, destroy infrastructure and multiply the number of displaced persons and refugees. That is why we hope that all the parties to the conflict understand that the military solution alone is a dangerous move and gamble. From this rostrum, we call upon kings, presidents and other heads of State here today at this humanitarian gathering to support reconciliation and dialogue among all Syrians and endorse the United Nations and Arab League initiative promoted by Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi after the noble efforts of Mr. Kofi Annan reached at an impasse. In that regard, we do not hide our concern about the consequences of the ongoing crisis, which could only worsen if sectarian and ethnic strife is triggered. That, in turn, could lead the region and its peoples into a spiral of fighting with no end on the horizon. Such a prospect makes it incumbent upon us on us to try in earnest to contain and peacefully resolve the crisis, while preserving the interests of the Syrian people and preventing further deterioration of the situation. Iraq’s initiative aimed at resolving the Syrian crisis continues to stand as a beacon of peace, as we search for an exit acceptable to all the forces of good. Our initiative is based on the following two points. First, Iraq has a keen desire to see Syria remain intact as a State, and we support the hopes and aspirations of the Syrian people for a free and dignified life. Secondly, Iraq is concerned at the possible repercussions of the violence and destruction caused by Syria’s internal war and sectarian strife, which we fear could have a spillover effect. Iraq’s unwavering and well-known position does not deviate from the Arab ranks on issues of crucial importance to our Arab nation. We accordingly support the establishment of the State of Palestine in the occupied Palestinian territories, with Jerusalem as its capital, and declare our support for the membership of the State of Palestine in the United Nations. We also declare our unequivocal rejection of the policies of oppression, Judaization and usurpation of land that Israel pursues without regard for international condemnation of its unjust practices, including the use of brutal force. We also reject Israel’s disregard for the repeated international calls to sign the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and to place its military arsenal and facilities under the supervision of the International Atomic Energy Agency. We have tirelessly called for the establishment in our region of a zone without nuclear weapons. Therefore, within the international framework, we are contributing to efforts to implement a Middle East zone free of all weapons of mass destruction, chief among which are nuclear weapons. That is why we endorse the preparations for the Helsinki conference to be held this year with a view to setting up a process that would set up such a zone. Any failure in that endeavour would lead to an arms race in a region that is in dire need of peace and stability. We condemn and reject the discriminatory policies pursued against religious and ethnic minorities in many countries the world over. We especially condemn the inhumane violations of the rights of Muslims in Myanmar, who face genocide. The world’s conscience should not remain untroubled by the gravity of their plight. Such situations run counter to all the principles of human rights law, religious teachings and international conventions. Our good and friendly relations with our neighbours, the region and the entire world are governed by a balanced foreign policy based on mutual respect, common interests and non-interference in the affairs of others. We also uphold the principles of goodneighbourliness and dialogue in our relations with the Arab and Muslim worlds, as well as with the entire world. Iraq hosted the League of Arab States Summit in March, which marked a return to our active, natural and pioneering role in joint Arab decision-making and action. That was followed by Iraq’s hosting of one of the rounds of international negotiations on the Iranian nuclear issue, which we undertook in the objective, balanced and responsible spirit that characterizes Iraq’s clear position with respect to that issue. It is a position that declares our firm support for international efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, while affirming the right of peoples and countries to benefit from the peaceful use of nuclear energy. We call upon the international community, represented by the United Nations and its Secretary- General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, whom we highly respect and revere, to extend support to Iraq’s efforts to exit from the Chapter VII provisions imposed on us as a result of the mistaken policies of the former regime following Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait, especially as there is no longer any justification for such international action. Iraq is no longer a threat to anyone and has fulfilled most of its obligations, as is confirmed by the renewal of our brotherly relations with the State of Kuwait, seen specifically in the mutual visits of high-level officials of our respective countries and the serious and constructive dialogue based on a sincere desire and sustained efforts to resolve all outstanding issues between us. I would be remiss if I failed to speak of the repulsive abuse directed at the great Prophet Muhammad — peace be upon him — and the wave of violent protests that shook the Islamic world because of a ridiculous movie that attacked the image of our Prophet — peace be upon him — a movie that nearly caused relations between East and West to unravel. We need to conduct a sincere and serious examination on how to prevent the recurrence of such insults through an international ban that criminalizes those who insult religions, disrespect religious symbols or insult the great prophets and messengers. Such actions constitute a blatant aggression against everything great, holy and sacred. The recurrence of those obscene actions will supply terrorists with prime material for recruiting angry youth for use in violent actions that threaten peace and security, which could cause many casualties, as recent events have shown. We therefore clearly need to contain such attacks and prohibit the production and dissemination of similar provocative materials. As nobody in the Islamic world is able to contain the consequences of such disregard for Islamic values and their sanctity, we believe that the United Nations should play a central and constructive role in this matter, with a view to preventing potentially far-reaching and dangerous ramifications. In conclusion, we, the people and Government of Iraq, extend our hand to the other Member States with a view to increased collaboration aimed at achieving our common goals. Those are noble goals, based on lofty principles and cherished human values, and honour all human beings as supremely deserving of leading a free and safe life and enjoying fundamental freedoms. We hope that when we meet again our world will be a safer place, our peoples will enjoy better conditions and the international climate will have improved.﻿Uganda joins other delegations in congratulating Mr. Jeremić on his election as President of this body. My delegation has full confidence in his ability to steer our deliberations, and he can count on our support. I also wish to commend Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for his effective leadership during the last session. The international community has made significant progress in reducing conflicts around the world over the two decades since the end of the Cold War and the eventual freedom of South Africa from apartheid. However, we still face challenges arising from conflicts that take a heavy toll on nations and people around the world. The theme for this session’s debate is therefore timely and pertinent. We are again seeing an increase in conflicts brought about by unconstitutional changes of Governments, disputed elections, social tensions, extremist ideologies and territorial or border disputes, among other causes. We must redouble our efforts to resolve conflicts and disputes through peaceful means and in conformity with justice and international law, as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. From Uganda’s experience over the years, conflicts are best handled, first and foremost, by the political actors and citizens of the countries in question, following democratic principles and guided by the principle of equality of all persons before the law. In cases where national actors for some reason cannot resolve the problem, then subregional organizations should step in. In the case of Africa those include the East African Community, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR), the Southern African Development Community, the Economic Community of West African States and others. The United Nations and the international community would then provide the necessary support to subregional and regional initiatives. Our recent achievements in the peace processes in Burundi, the Sudan, South Sudan and Somalia, among others, attest to the progress we can achieve by working together. The advantages of such an approach include the use of local actors who have more discerning knowledge of the problems and those in close proximity and with a greater stake in getting the problems resolved. In addition, there is the international support and legitimacy that the United Nations provides. The current ICGLR initiative on the situation in the east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is based on such experience. We call upon the Security Council and the international community to give the necessary support to the decisions of the ICGLR summit held in Kampala on 8 September. That regional initiative is aimed at addressing the root causes of the conflict in eastern Congo, deploying a neutral international force and responding to the humanitarian crisis. Our preference for home-grown solutions is premised on the realization that external influences or interventions do not necessarily offer sustainable solutions for the resolution of conflicts. On the contrary, external interventions often contribute to a cycle of destabilizing tendencies — which is why we are still grappling with situations like the one in eastern Congo. The African Union (AU) has shown strong political will to resolve conflicts on the continent peacefully and to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security. We call upon our partners to support the dispute resolution mechanisms, as well as the peace and security efforts of the AU and subregional organizations. Uganda’s participation in and contribution to conflict resolution in our subregion, on the African continent and on the international scene are guided by that approach, which has proved to be largely successful in resolving conflicts and wars. Regional initiatives need to be complemented by international support, including assisting countries emerging from conflict to build the requisite capacities for the consolidation of peace. It is also important that such support include provision of immediate post- conflict humanitarian assistance and material input for reconstruction and development. We welcome the continuing deepening of cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations in the resolution of conflicts and the maintenance of peace and security. This positive trend should continue, and every effort should be made to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past. Uganda strongly believes that conflicts that might arise between and within countries should be resolved through dialogue among all the parties concerned. In the recent past we have witnessed regrettable instances in which peace initiatives have been frustrated through the intransigence of the parties, with support from some members of the international community. That can only be a recipe for long-term turmoil and instability in the affected countries and neighbouring regions. In our view, in situations of armed conflict the first priority should be securing a verifiable ceasefire, followed by a political process involving an all-inclusive dialogue without preconditions. It is up to the parties, with the assistance of a mediator or facilitator, to reach a settlement that addresses their interests. There is no doubt that resolving conflicts requires identifying and addressing their underlying causes, which include social, political and economic factors that are often deeply entrenched and interwoven. In seeking to resolve any conflict, national, regional and international actors need to adopt approaches that take into account the following complexities. First, it is important to address the substantive issues that give rise to conflicts in the first place, such as lack of access to or inequitable distribution of resources, social or political exclusion and other grievances. The linkage between development and security in peacebuilding is now widely recognized, and once conflicts are resolved, the affected communities need peace dividends in terms of delivery of basic services such as health and education as well as opportunities for employment. Secondly, efforts should be made to defuse the fear, hatred and other negative emotions that make conflicts intractable and often violent. We must collectively speak out against intolerance and extremism in order to advance mutual respect and understanding of the values and beliefs of others. Uganda condemns all acts of terrorism and violence. We strongly condemn the recent spate of violence and attacks, including targeting diplomatic missions of the United States and other Member States. Thirdly, political leaders and all actors need to forge national reconciliation, including through transitional justice mechanisms, as well as establishing truth and reconciliation mechanisms, which play a key role in promoting durable peace. We would also like to reiterate the need to increase the role of women and youth in the peaceful settlement of disputes, given the significant contribution they can make. On the Israeli-Palestinian question, Uganda continues to call upon both parties to negotiate and reach a peaceful settlement based on a two-State solution, with a Palestinian State living side by side with Israel in peace, security and mutual recognition. Finally, we affirm our commitment to the peaceful settlement of conflicts and to fostering international cooperation based on the principles of sovereign equality, justice and adherence to international law.﻿It is a great honour for me to speak from this rostrum for the first time since I took office in January. I would like to congratulate President Jeremić on assuming the chair of this highly representative body and wish him success in his challenging task. I also wish to commend the work of his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of the Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. Let me express our gratitude and appreciation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his inspiring vision, reform efforts and result-oriented action. I also wish to welcome the appointment of Mr. Jan Eliasson of Sweden as Deputy Secretary-General. Our time is marked by historic shifts and by achievements in science, technology and communications that shape the global economy and politics but that, we should also bear in mind, have an impact on every human being. More and more nations around the world have now opted for open, free and democratic societies based on the rule of law and good governance. But such historic transformations do not always bring more peace and stability. On many occasions we still face extreme violence and bloodshed, causing senseless loss of innocent lives, human suffering and destruction. The main theme of the Assembly’s general debate today could not be more relevant for us as political leaders. Dealing with violent conflicts and promoting peace, security, development and human rights have always been at the core of the United Nations. At yesterday’s High-level Meeting, we affirmed our credo that the rule of law forms the basis of a peaceful and predictable system of international relations. Nowadays, as conflicts have become more complex, we share the view that mediation and good offices should be the tools of preference for dealing with escalating tension. Delivering justice is vital to addressing terrorism, one of the ugliest and most despicable crimes against humanity. No cause whatsoever can justify the indiscriminate killing of innocent civilians. Sadly enough, no country or human being today can feel safe or insured against this evil. Just a few weeks ago, at the Sofia synagogue, we paid tribute to the memory of five Israeli citizens and one Bulgarian who lost their lives in the shocking terrorist attack last July at the airport of Sarafovo, a lively tourist destination on our Black Sea coast. From this high stage today in New York, a few miles from the September 11 memorial, I now reaffirm our strongest condemnation of that awful crime. My country will spare no effort to bring the perpetrators and masterminds to justice. That attack on our own soil has made us stronger and more determined to align with others in implementing the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy. We condemn the violent acts committed recently in the name of defending religious beliefs. This is unacceptable. We urge all involved to show tolerance and avoid provocative actions that can be destructive to peace and stability. For more than a year now the continuing brutal violence in Syria has provoked our extreme concern. Each day brings testimony of unacceptable levels of bloodshed and human suffering. The regime in Damascus has lost all legitimacy by waging a reckless war on its own people and refusing to heed the calls for a negotiated way out of the crisis. Due to the growing number of refugees, the humanitarian situation is deteriorating day by day and the stability of neighbouring countries is also at risk. Bulgaria condemns these gross violations of basic United Nations principles and of international humanitarian law. We call for full accountability on the part of the perpetrators, including by bringing them before the International Criminal Court. My country subscribes to the acts of solidarity undertaken by the European Union and its members in providing relief to the suffering civilian population through emergency humanitarian assistance. It is regrettable that the active involvement of the United Nations and the international community has so far failed to ensure the Syrian authorities’ compliance with the peace proposals elaborated through international mediation. Bulgaria gave its full support to the diplomatic efforts of Mr. Kofi Annan and welcomed the appointment of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi as Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria. While the violence and bloodshed should be stopped immediately, we also call for the start of a transition towards inclusive and representative democratic rule in Syria, one that guarantees the rights of all citizens regardless of ethnicity or religion. Bulgaria has supported the Syrian opposition groups in their efforts to unite on an alternative to the current regime, on the basis of the vision of a new democratic State that can be a home that welcomes all Syrians. The promotion of just, inclusive and transparent societies supports the process of democratic transition, known as the Arab Spring, that has swept across the Middle East and North Africa. Bulgaria welcomes the steps taken by several countries on the path to constitutional and political reform, and we trust that those are now irreversible. At the same time, the need to reactivate the Middle East peace process seems now more pressing than ever. Bulgaria looks forward to the resumption in good faith of direct negotiations and expects both parties to demonstrate their continued commitment to a peaceful solution that respects the legitimate interests and sensitivities of the Israeli and Palestinian people. All efforts should made to create an environment conducive to a comprehensive peace settlement between the two States, a two-State solution. In that respect, we urge both the Palestinians and the Israelis to refrain from any unilateral actions that could be destructive to the peace process. Disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are areas that continue to demand strong political will and action by the international community. It is essential that we continue to strengthen the comprehensive regime of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and of other major international instruments, such as the Chemical Weapons Convention. With regard to conventional arms, Bulgaria consistently supports the negotiation process leading to the adoption of a legally binding arms trade treaty that is robust in substance. Along with others, we believe that Iran’s full cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency is of paramount importance. The Government in Tehran must show greater transparency of its nuclear activities and fully comply with all relevant Security Council resolutions. We look to a resumption of the high-level negotiations on the future of Iran’s nuclear programme and a clear demonstration of political will by the Iranian authorities to undertake concrete confidence-building steps and address the concerns of the international community. Bulgaria highly values the role of the Human Rights Council as the primary United Nations body for the protection and promotion of human rights. I am delighted to announce that my country will be seeking, for the first time, election to the Council for the period 2019 to 2021. Over the past two decades, Bulgaria has gone through a successful transition from totalitarian rule to a functioning democracy with an open market economy and a vibrant civil society. It has been a difficult, dramatic and sometimes turbulent journey. I think our greatest achievement in this process was to have preserved the long-standing tradition of tolerance and dialogue between ethnic and religious communities within Bulgarian society. That tradition can be clearly illustrated by a glimpse of the centre of our capital, where four temples of different religions — Islam, Judaism and Catholic and Orthodox Christianity — coexist peacefully, surrounded by archaeological monuments of several ancient civilizations. It is in this spirit that we stand ready to share the experience from our road to democracy with other countries undergoing similar challenges. More than a year ago, Bulgaria initiated an international forum called the Sofia Platform , providing a useful venue for dialogue and an exchange of views and best practices among countries in the region. We got experts, officials and representatives from Governments, non-governmental organizations and civil societies all over the world focusing on the transition processes in Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans and the Middle East. The forum showed that although the historical, cultural and political realities vary in different countries and regions, conclusions and lessons learned can be relevant in the field of national reconciliation, rule of law, institution-building and security sector reform. Bulgaria maintains its unwavering commitment to the process of European Union (EU) enlargement, involving all our neighbouring countries of South- Eastern Europe and the Balkans. We confirm our conviction that all States of the region should one day become part of the European Union, on the basis of their own merits and criteria fulfilled in the negotiation process. At the same time, pursuing the national reform agendas, solving outstanding issues and building regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations, in accordance with the European standards, is of direct benefit to all countries of the region and their European perspective. All of us in South-Eastern Europe are interested in promoting business and human contacts with our neighbours, developing cross-border projects and facilitating travel, building railways and highways, and developing communications and regional energy and transport infrastructure facilities — all as part of the pan-European networks. That is why we need to make the best use of existing regional bodies, such as the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation and the South-Eastern European Cooperation Process with its Regional Cooperation Council. A few months ago, at the Rio+20 Conference on Sustainable Development, we made a good start on the path to a greener and safer world. The outcome documents indicate that sustainable development is the only possible way forward. The triple-win policies envisaged in the outcome document, “The future we want” (resolution 66/288, annex) seek to advance social development, economic growth and environmental sustainability, all at the same time. Our task now is to focus on the Conference follow-up and to deliver. The General Assembly should discuss the formulation of sustainable development goals to be integrated into the United Nations development agenda beyond 2015. We see an important role for the Economic and Social Council in the process, and we stand ready to contribute, taking the opportunity of our membership in the Council. In the context of the United Nations development agenda, let me stress that Bulgaria, as an EU member, is deeply committed to the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals and is working to gradually increase its share as a donor of development and humanitarian aid, in compliance with the commitments it has undertaken. During this Assembly session, Bulgaria will sign the Food Assistance Convention. Being myself a strong supporter of greater focus on education as a key area for sustainable development, allow me to express my high appreciation for the initiative of the Secretary-General “Education First”. I am convinced that in a knowledge-based network of economies, education is the best investment in order to prepare young generations for global citizenship. We welcome the designation of UNESCO’s Director- General, Mrs. Irina Bokova, as the Executive Secretary for this initiative. In view of her outstanding performance so far, Bulgaria advocates Mrs. Bokova’s re-election for a second term at the helm of UNESCO for the period 2013 to 2017. We highly value UNICEF’s noble mission to promote children’s rights, safety and well-being. Over the past few years, the role of UNICEF in Bulgaria evolved from the usual technical assistance to a strategic partnership with the Government in order to promote fundamental reforms. In November this year, my country will host a UNICEF-sponsored high-level regional conference on child care system reform. Finally, let me assure the Assembly that Bulgaria will continue to give its full support to the noble cause of building a stronger, rule-based multilateral system with an enhanced role for the United Nations at its centre. Success on that path will be achieved only by working together.﻿I will begin my remarks by congratulating Mr. Vuk Jeremić, President of the General Assembly, on his election. My country offers its support to him as he fulfils his important role. Success in his work will also represent success for the United Nations and therefore for all the peoples of the world. We endorse his commitment to the “adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, and we support the road map that he has outlined for the exercise of his duties. We welcome the outstanding work of his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, and emphasize in particular his commitment to mediation. We reiterate our support for the five imperatives of the agenda presented in January by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his second term. Barely a year ago, we gathered in this Hall, encouraged by an echo of hope. It came from North Africa and the Middle East and was broadcast by a wide cross-section of voices gathered around one universal value — freedom. That hopeful clamour can still be heard in the complex transitions to democracy, propelled by the will of the people. Tunisia, Egypt and Libya are the best examples. We convey our admiration and respect to those countries and their people. Today, however, the sounds most strongly resonating in this Hall are the desperate cries of women and children in Syria. To them, we convey our solidarity. At the same time, we are distressed at the fury unleashed by those who would manipulate intolerance and extremism. We are worried by the resurgence of territorial conflicts, the warmongering rhetoric of some States and the indifference of autocratic regimes. We face the ongoing challenges of relentless terrorism, drug trafficking and organized crime. Meanwhile, alarming signs of environmental destruction are cropping up with increasing urgency. These challenges have made us aware of the many threats we face, and they reiterate the seminal importance of this Organization and of the multilateral system as a whole. The peaceful settlement of disputes is imperative for peaceful coexistence among individuals, peoples and countries. For Costa Rica, it is also a part of daily life and a central goal of our foreign policy. It is a value that is deeply rooted in our respect for diversity and our commitment to tolerance and the rule of law. To prevent conflicts or to strip them of their violent consequences, we must promote preventive diplomacy and mediation. We enjoy the best results when these processes generate legally binding agreements and decisions within the framework of the rule of law. A clear link therefore exists between the theme proposed by President Jeremić for this session and the commitment by the United Nations and its Member States to the rule of law. Costa Rica believes in the power of mediation, and is thus part of a group of countries dedicated to promoting it within the United Nations. In July 2011, thanks to an initiative by the group that was enthusiastically supported by many other States, the Assembly adopted by consensus its first resolution aimed at strengthening the role of mediation (resolution 66/291). A few days ago, the Assembly gave its support to a follow-up text. Moreover, Costa Rica is proud to have headed up one of the most successful mediation processes in the history of our hemisphere. In the mid-1980s, various armed conflicts bloodied our brotherly countries in Central America. There seemed to be no way out of the conflict. However, thanks to the tenacious leadership of former Costa Rican President Óscar Arias Sánchez, on 7 August 1987, the region’s Heads of State signed the Central American peace plan in Guatemala. That leadership earned our compatriot and President the Nobel Peace Prize. The success of the peace plan stemmed from the double commitment of the signatories: to cease hostilities, and to address their root causes. Thanks to this comprehensive approach, the vision of the five Presidents of the Central American isthmus and effective international support, Central America silenced its guns and achieved peace. It was a peace founded on democracy and the commitment to development and justice. Unfortunately, the region today faces another challenge of similar proportions. I refer to the onslaught of drug trafficking and international organized crime. We are a transit route between the production centres of the south and the large consumption centre of the north. This situation has made us the victims of a problem over which we exercise minimal control. Our resources to deal with the problem are even more meagre. Central Americans countries have agreed on regional strategies to work jointly on prevention, interdiction and suppression, but our capacity for action is limited and has prevented any rapid implementation. Despite all this, Costa Rica has rejected the dangerous notion of a “war” to confront these scourges. Rather, we are working to expand opportunities for young people, promote preventative measures, improve police capacity, strengthen the effectiveness of the judiciary and assist addicts. Fortunately, we are seeing results in terms of civil security. For example, our murder rate, which is the lowest in Central America, has fallen from 11.7 per 100,000 people in May 2011, to 9 per 100,000 in May of this year. Reports of crime in general decreased by 12 per cent from 2010 to 2011. However, the cartels’ onslaught is so intense, the logic of the drug market so disastrous, and the global strategies to control it so disorganized and insufficient that the outlook is grim. Costa Rica therefore believes a more active link must be developed between the United Nations and the design and implementation of balanced regional strategies to deal with the drug trade. Moreover, drug traffickers must be viewed as a real threat to peace and international security. Costa Rica is a small, democratic, unarmed and civilian country. The multilateral system and international law are our only means of defence. For this reason, we have recognized the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice since 1973. At the end of 2010, we appealed to the Court after the Government of Nicaragua illegally deployed military forces and civilian personnel in part of our national territory. In March of the following year, the Court pronounced a series of provisional measures. Among them, the Court ordered Nicaragua to remove its forces from the disputed area and granted environmental custody to Costa Rica. However, the Government of Nicaragua has consistently f louted the order and continued to send personnel to that area. It has done so in open defiance of the Court, to the detriment of our bilateral relations, and in violation of paragraph 31 of the Declaration on the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels that was adopted a week ago by the Assembly (resolution 67/1). We do not want this case to mar relations or, even worse, the profound human ties between our countries. But Nicaragua has still failed to fulfil the provisional measures of the Court. We regret this, we condemn this and we denounce this once again in this Hall. Despite its clear adherence to the rule of law and commitment to mediation, the international community has been unable to adopt a key instrument for avoiding conflicts or, at least, limiting their destructive effects. At the end of July 2012, we failed to reach a consensus on a universal, robust and binding arms trade treaty. It was a sombre moment for peace and human dignity. Costa Rica, one of the co-authors of that initiative, will not cease in its efforts to promote the kind of instrument that the millions of victims of conventional weapons are demanding from the silence of their tombs. The rule of law should also be the foundation of global governance. If this governance is to be robust in any area, it should be in the area of the environment. The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development brought about important progress in this respect. However, the biggest tasks and commitments remain pending. While the global temperature continues to rise, droughts and f loods continue to exact a toll in lives, destroy infrastructure and displace populations. The environmental threat is about to assume exponential dimensions. We cannot wait any longer to act. Costa Rica adopted sustainability as a development model several years ago and has embraced its national responsibilities on the matter. We have increased our forest coverage. We generate 90 per cent of our energy from renewable sources. Over 25 per cent of our territory is made up of national parks, and we have adopted the goal of becoming a carbon-neutral country by 2021. But these and many other initiatives by small countries will be useless without the commitment of the biggest carbon emitters and without international cooperation for mitigation and adaption in the most vulnerable countries. The formulation of the post-2015 sustainable development goals gives us an excellent opportunity to move forward. We expect their formulation to be a multisectoral and participatory process that includes rule of law and good governance components. Middle-income countries still need the support of the international community to consolidate our improvements in economic and human development. Let us not forget that our achievements are due, in part, to the proper use of cooperation mechanisms. To eliminate these because they have been well used would be a disastrous mistake. That is why Costa Rica, together with other middle-income countries, will continue to participate actively in improving the methodology guiding the graduation processes in the context of the United Nations Development Programme. As we mentioned, we must consider, in the models for these processes, not only income, but also other criteria that better reflect the extent of our challenges and that foster cooperation strategies that provide greater support to our development efforts. The main leadership role in global governance should be played by the United Nations, on the basis of international law. Only legitimate multilateral action can promote and protect the most important global public goods. We cannot discount the external challenges to the leadership of this Organization. But it is more important that we recognize the internal need to commit ourselves to making it more vigorous, effective, efficient, inclusive and representative. Member States should understand that the best way to promote our national interests through the United Nations is to reform it in order to improve its performance. Costa Rica aligns itself with the concept of a global Secretariat that was formulated by the Secretary- General, and is ready to give its constructive support to translating this idea into reality. We are also committed to the comprehensive reform of the Security Council and believe that improving its working methods should be an ongoing process. We emphasize the value of the responsibility to protect as a critical operative principle of the international community. The fight against impunity is part of the fight for human dignity. This is why we ardently support the International Criminal Court, one of the most relevant achievements of the multilateral system since the creation of the United Nations. The upheavals in the world today demand our attention and fill us with dismay, but hope also flourishes alongside them. What better example is there, in this regard, than the spirit recently embodied by the Olympic and Paralympic athletes in London, who competed with clear rules, fair play, mutual respect and a feeling of achievement? If the conflicts of our world mimicked that experience, the course of humanity would be different. Maybe such a fundamental change is not possible, but we should at least continue to work for a world that is more just, peaceful, free, sustainable, and respectful of human dignity and the rule of law. Costa Rica reiterates its profound commitment to this task.﻿This is the first time that I speak from this rostrum at the United Nations. It is a very moving moment for me because I understand what the United Nations represents, for our world, and what it has represented historically. I am also aware of a sense of responsibility, because France is a permanent member of the Security Council and therefore has duties. I am also here at this rostrum to talk about values that do not belong to any particular people, are not owned by any particular continent and are not the privilege of any particular part of the population. I am here to talk about universal values, which France has always proclaimed, and about the rights of every human being, wherever they live: liberty, security and resistance to oppression. Those values and those rights are all too frequently held in contempt in our world, especially as we face three main threats, which we must tackle head-on. The first is the threat of fanaticism, which fuels violence. We have seen that yet again in recent days. The second is the global economy, which has been affected by a crisis and which perpetuates intolerable inequalities. The third threat is the disturbance in the climate system, which threatens the very survival of our planet. The mission of the United Nations is to tackle these challenges and to find strong and just responses to them together. These responses must be just because without justice, force is blind, and they must be strong because without strength, justice is powerless. I am also here to express France’s confidence in the United Nations. In recent years, we have been able together, to finally put an end to deadly conflicts, and we have been able to prevent confrontations. However, just as we are sending out 100,000 Blue Helmets who act on our behalf — and I would like to pay tribute to them — because of divisions, the blocking of our own institutions and inertia, the United Nations has not been able to put an end to war, atrocities and attacks on the rights of peoples. I would therefore, on behalf of France, draw one conclusion that I would like to share with the Assembly. If we want to make our world safer, it is up to us to fully shoulder our responsibilities. How can we do so? First of all, we can do so by reforming our own Organization, the United Nations. The Security Council must better reflect the realities of the world today. This is why I would once again recall that France supports the request for an enlargement of the Council made by Germany, Japan, India and Brazil. But we are also in favour of an increased African presence, including among the permanent members. Having a seat on the Security Council is not a privilege justified by history, and it is not a matter of satisfying some ambition related to economic power. No, having a seat on the Security Council means making the commitment to take action to promote peace in the world. Indeed, we must act and act together, but act quickly, because it is urgent. The most urgent situation is in Syria. The Assembly has several times denounced the massacres carried out by the Syrian regime, called for those responsible to be prosecuted and expressed the desire for a democratic transition. But the ordeal of the population continues to this day. There have been almost 30,000 deaths in the last 18 months. How many more deaths will we wait for before we take action? How can we allow the paralysis of the United Nations to continue? I know one thing for certain: the Syrian regime will never again take its place among the alliance of nations. It has no future among us. This is why I have taken the decision, on behalf of France, to recognize the provisional Government representing the new Syria as soon as it is formed. That Government will itself have to give guarantees that every community in Syria will be respected and will be able to live in security in their own country. Without further delay, I would ask that the United Nations immediately give the Syrian people all of the assistance and support they are requesting and, in particular, that the liberated areas be protected and humanitarian aid be assured for refugees. As for the leaders in Damascus, they must know that the international community will not stand by if they take the unhappy decision to use chemical weapons. Another situation that is urgent is the fight against the most serious of threats to stability in the world, namely, the proliferation of nuclear weapons. For several years now, Iran has been ignoring the demands of the international community. It shuns monitoring by the International Atomic Energy Agency. It does not keep its word or uphold Security Council resolutions. I had hoped that negotiations could take place in earnest and that steps could be outlined, but, again, no negotiations have taken place. France will not accept such actions, which threaten not only security in the region but peace throughout the world. I therefore state once again that we are prepared to adopt new sanctions, not to punish the great people of Iran, but to tell their leaders that enough is enough and that negotiations must be resumed before it is too late. The third urgent issue is at last to find a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The status quo is not a response; it is an impasse. France will make every effort to re-establish the basis for negotiations leading to the coexistence of the two States in question; everyone knows that this is the only solution that could lead to a just and lasting peace in the region. The last of the urgent issues that I will mention, although there are many others, might be the most important one for us to focus on this week: the Sahel. The situation created by the occupation of territory in northern Mali by terrorist groups is intolerable, inadmissible and unacceptable. It is unacceptable not only for Mali, which is affected by that terrorist threat, but also for all countries of the region and beyond the region — all of those that one day might be affected by terrorism. The African Union, which I commend, and the Economic Community of West African States have said that they are prepared to take courageous decisions. The authorities of Mali have spoken; there is no time to lose. France will support any initiative that will enable the Africans themselves to resolve that issue within the framework of international law, with a clear mandate from the Security Council. Mali must recover its territorial integrity, and terrorism must be eliminated from that area of the Sahel. The role of the United Nations is to respond to urgent situations. But there is another objective that should unite us here, and that is development. The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio, in which I participated, was a disappointing stage for some and an encouraging one for others. I believe that today we have an agenda that should encompass economic growth, poverty reduction, social progress and environmental protection. That is what we need to do over the long term. The 2015 deadline for a climate agreement is fast approaching. I wish to state here that France is ready to host the United Nations conference on climate change to be held at that time, because I want us to succeed together in meeting that challenge. In parallel, I would recall that one of the disappointments of Rio was our failure to agree on the creation of a major United Nations organization for the environment. That remains France’s objective. Such an agency would be based in Africa, because that continent, which has been neglected for too long, is facing climate-related challenges. It would also be highly symbolic to entrust Africa with such a global agency for the environment. With respect to development, I believe that we should face reality. We will not achieve the Millennium Development Goals without new resources. Everyone knows the budgetary limitations of our respective States. That is why today, from this rostrum here at the United Nations, I am making an appeal for innovative financing, which would give us the means to enable our organizations to fight effectively against diseases such as HIV/AIDS and malaria. I would like to commend the success of the International Drug Purchase Facility, which was financed by a tax on airline tickets. That path has been opened, and today we must take another step in that direction. I propose a tax on financial transactions — which several European Union countries have already agreed to — aimed at slowing down the movement of capital or at least financing development and helping to fight health-related scourges. France has adopted such a tax. We have also made another commitment: to dedicate at least 10 per cent of the benefits of that tax to development and to fight health- related threats and pandemics. That is the message that I wanted to send to the Assembly today: let us ensure that a global tax on financial transactions can be levied and that the benefits it yields can be spent on development and fighting pandemics. That would be an excellent example of what I call the globalization of solidarity, and one of the best ideas that today’s world could implement. But the mission of the United Nations is not only to fight financial instability or ensure that development remains at the centre of our concerns: it is to work to counter all forms of instability. I am thinking here about drug trafficking, a scourge that affects producing, transit and consuming countries. To combat drug traffickers, who are frequently allied with terrorist networks, the United Nations must elaborate and implement a global strategy to fight against drugs. Arms trafficking also poses a major threat. France is firmly committed to the conclusion of a universal arms trade treaty. What the United Nations must defend and promote is a worldview that is based on respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. The Arab Spring showed that those values are universal and apply to all continents and countries. I want to welcome the events that took place in Tunisia, in Libya, in Egypt. It is true that transitions are not always easy. There are risks, and setbacks can occur. Some may attempt, through violence, to reverse the progress made and the achievements gained. France will call on the new political authorities emanating from democratic elections in those countries to wage an unrelenting combat against complacency, extremism, fanaticism, hatred, intolerance and violence, whatever the provocation may be, because there can never be any justification for violence. France wants to set an example. It is not telling anyone what to do; that is simply its history and its message. We want to be an example in the promotion of fundamental freedoms. That is our combat, and we are honoured to wage it. That is why France will continue to fight to abolish the death penalty, to ensure women’s right to equality and dignity, and to work towards the universal decriminalization of homosexuality, which cannot be viewed as a crime but must be recognized as an orientation. We will continue to fight for the protection of civilians. Moreover, I recall that the Assembly affirmed the principle that all States have the responsibility to ensure the security of their civilians. If a State fails in that obligation, it is up to us, the United Nations, to use the means at its disposal to meet it in its place. Let us not neglect that promise, as it can serve us. I am thinking, in particular, of what is happening in the Democratic Republic of Congo, where civilians are the main victims of clashes and where foreign interference must cease as soon as possible. Those are the goals that France will support and defend at the United Nations. France has confidence in the United Nations. We know that no State, however powerful, can deal with emergencies, undertake the fight for development or overcome all crises. No State can do that, but, on the contrary, if we act together, we will live up to our responsibilities. France wants the United Nations to be the centre and the framework for global governance, but do the States that make up the Organization want that to be our purpose and goal? I say in all seriousness that when there is paralysis, inertia and inaction, injustice and intolerance find their place. What I would like members to understand is that we must act in order to shoulder our responsibilities and to deal with urgent situations, such as Syria, nuclear proliferation and the Sahel. We must also work for another world that is based on development and innovative financing and for the fight against health crises. We must act, always and together. Let us live up to the mission entrusted to us and to the expectations of peoples. That is France’s message.﻿This year’s general debate began with a Declaration by world leaders that our collective response to all challenges must be guided by the rule of law (resolution 67/1). Palau is very proud to join in that Declaration, as our national story is inextricably linked with the international rule of law. Not long ago, Palau emerged as the last United Nations Trust Territory, granted independence after more than 100 years and four successive colonial administrations. Our unique road to freedom left us with a lasting legacy: a strong partnership with the United States of America and a constitution that guarantees the Palauan people the rights and freedoms enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Through independence, we have preserved our heritage, our culture and our environment. That preservation was marked this year by UNESCO’s designation of the Rock Islands of Palau as 2012’s only natural and cultural world heritage site. And, just last year, the United Nations Development Programme ranked Palau forty-ninth in the world in its Human Development Index, a composite measure of life expectancy, health, educational attainment and living standards. We are very proud of that ranking for this small, new country. It is a tribute to Palau’s success. Having gained so much, Palau has worked to give back to the international community and to make the world a better place. Palau proudly deployed officers as peacekeepers in Timor-Leste and the Solomon Islands, and continues to do so today in Darfur. Upon first taking its United Nations seat, Palau focused its energies on the odious practice of deep-sea bottom trawling. And though it has taken some time and considerable buy-in from others, the two consensus resolutions 61/105 and 66/68 show that we can help protect vulnerable deep-sea marine ecosystems and biodiversity on a global scale. In 2009, from this rostrum, Palau’s President, Johnson Toribiong, launched the first volley in an effort to save the world’s dwindling shark populations. He declared the world’s first shark sanctuary in his general debate address. The ocean’s vitality depends on healthy shark populations. So we are grateful that States and territories from across the globe have joined Palau in committing to nurture shark sanctuaries. Today, almost 2 million square miles of ocean — an area approximately nine times the size of Palau’s waters — are safe for sharks. Palau was also the first to sound the alarm on the security impacts of climate change. With our Pacific brothers and sisters, we moved early on to declare climate change a security issue that demands the special attention of every organ of the United Nations system. That was a new and different way of thinking about the problem. Some sceptically questioned whether Blue Helmets would be able to hold back the rising tides. But 18 months after we began, the Assembly adopted consensus resolution 63/281, inviting the relevant organs of the United Nations to intensify their efforts to consider and address climate change, including its possible security implications. That call was heeded by Germany, when it took up the issue last July as President of the Security Council. Thanks to Germany’s efforts, as well as those of others on the Council, we now have a historic presidential statement highlighting the potential risks of climate change to international peace and security. Germany’s statement and resolution 63/281 have not stemmed the rising tides, but they have helped to change the way we understand and discuss climate change. No longer can anyone question the impact of climate change on energy security, on food security, on water security or indeed on our territorial integrity. No longer can anyone deny that rising seas and oppressive droughts are displacing people across the globe. As the United States Permanent Representative said at last year’s Council meeting, to deny the security implications of climate change would be pathetic. The world has reached a crossroads on sustainable development. We have recently concluded discussions at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development and will soon delineate new sustainable development goals, focusing again on small island developing States. For Palau, that crossroads is an opportunity to better integrate healthy oceans and fisheries into the regulatory development framework. Sustainable fisheries are Palau’s lifeblood. For Palau, it has always been, and continues to be, a blue economy or no economy. That is why we have limited purse seine fishing, agreed with our neighbours to close the doughnut holes between our jurisdictions, and implemented an innovative vessel day scheme strategy through the parties to the Nauru Agreement. That is also why we have conserved 58 per cent of our in-shore marine area through the Protected Areas Network, banned bottom trawling and declared the world’s first shark sanctuary. We were honoured this year that the Protected Areas Network Act and the Shark Haven Act received the 2012 Future Policy Award for outstanding maritime policy and for contributing most effectively to the sustainable management of the world’s oceans and coasts for the benefit of current and future generations. We thank the World Future Council, the Convention on Biological Diversity, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the Okeanos Foundation for the Sea and the Global Environmental Facility for conferring their generous recognition and support through that award. Palau champions three straightforward principles for global fisheries. First, global fisheries should be fair. If distant-water vessels want to come for fish that traverse Palau’s waters, they should respect our laws. They should fish within our limits and recognize our right to realize the benefits of our natural resources. Illegal fishing is tantamount to piracy; it robs us of our livelihoods and undermines our security. Secondly, global fisheries should be sustainable. We should use every means at our disposal to achieve stock levels that will ensure healthy fisheries for the long term. That includes closing fisheries when necessary. Thirdly, global fisheries should be accountable. Reports show that 87 per cent of global fish stocks are now fully exploited or overexploited. Those are the worst numbers on record. Regional fisheries management organizations, which stand in the shoes of the General Assembly, should do better and should be more transparent. We are encouraged that negotiations this year enabled the resolution on sustainable fisheries (resolution 66/88) to better reflect those three principles. Palau is pleased to report on the success of a number of key domestic initiatives, which we have previously raised in the general debate. Palau has taken innovative steps to reduce our emissions by solarizing our airport, our Government buildings and our highways. By 2020, we will generate 20 per cent of our energy from renewable sources. We have also created a successful green mortgage programme to assist the financing of greener homes. That programme, which began with a small amount of financing from Italy, was recently the subject of a workshop among 13 regional financing institutions, with plans for expansion throughout the Pacific. Palau is also working to connect itself to the world — literally. It is inconceivable to many of us here in New York, but Palau remains without broadband Internet. That means that no Palauan can watch the streaming video of this speech. The Broadband Commission of the International Telecommunication Union tells us that broadband access is a prerequisite to achieving the Millennium Development Goals and that a 10 per cent increase in broadband penetration increases a developing country’s gross national product by 1.4 per cent. We are sure that a 100 per cent increase would fundamentally improve Palauan health, business and civic engagement. We continue to seek partners that might help Palau to reach that goal. Last year Palau underwent its Human Rights Council Universal Periodic Review. The most repeated recommendation by Human Rights Council members was that we should establish a national human rights institution. With the help of new partners, we are translating human rights conventions into Palauan, bringing the lessons of international human rights into Palauan schools, harmonizing our national legislation, regulations and practices with the international human rights instruments, and supporting human rights programmes and services in Palau through that formal institution. All those activities have been complemented by the outstanding work being done to remove explosive remnants of Second World War from Palau. As President Toribiong stated from this rostrum last year, many of those explosives are still live and are being discovered near our schools, roads and utilities. With the help of our partners, much of this unexploded ordnance is being destroyed. We hope that anyone interested in our efforts will attend our upcoming regional workshop in October to see first-hand the successful model of cooperation between Palau’s Government, non-governmental organizations, donors and the local community that is eradicating that scourge from our midst. We would like to express our gratitude for the strong support and friendship of our partners for helping to get those and other important projects off the ground. Palau thanks especially the United States, Japan, Australia and the Republic of China (Taiwan). Palau continues to believe that Taiwan’s meaningful participation in the United Nations system will help to further promote the system’s efficacy, goals and ideals, including those of the International Civil Aviation Organization and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Palau very much appreciates the President’s choice of “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means” as the theme for this year’s general debate. It is as important as ever that we commit to upholding the peace and condemn violence wherever it occurs. To that end, Palau condemns in the strongest possible terms the recent attacks on the diplomatic premises in the Middle East. We agree with President Obama that such attacks are “an assault on the very ideals upon which the United Nations was founded” (A/67/PV.6, p. 11). We must be vigilant in protecting all diplomatic missions, wherever they may be. Closer to our shores in the Pacific, Palau is also hopeful that tensions in the East China Sea will dissipate, and that all of our neighbours can engage in a more peaceful dialogue. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon cautioned the world last week that we are wilfully blind when it comes to climate change. We are awash in reports telling us that the situation is dire. We have experienced more than 100 consecutive months of temperatures above global averages. Nine of the 10 warmest years on record have occurred since the year 2000. Arctic sea ice is at its lowest level in recorded history. Coral reefs are disappearing at an alarming rate. Now, buried in the recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change regarding the management of risk is advice to policymakers in small island States that, in certain cases, they may wish to consider relocating their populations. We assure the members of the Assembly that Palau has no intention of moving its people. Our islands are their home. They are the essence of Palau’s very being. I can state with every confidence that Palau will pursue every legitimate recourse available before we concede hope. The current situation at the UNFCCC is unacceptable. After more than 20 years of negotiations, we are running out of creative ways to say that countries are being destroyed. Sadly, it seems that the most vulnerable countries have become acceptable collateral damage. The world knows the causes of climate change. It is within our grasp to effect a solution. No army stands in our way. If something is not done soon, all the good, hard work to which Palau and the other island nations of the world have dedicated themselves will be for naught. In conclusion, we know that the times we live in are turbulent, but we must heed our leaders’ call to be guided by the Charter of the United Nations and the international rule of law. Palau will continue to do its part by being a moral voice for what is right, and hopefully, a model global citizen.﻿At the outset, I would like to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to wish him every success in that highly honourable and important role. I am convinced that his rich experience will contribute to the achievement of significant results in our work together. I convey my appreciation as well to his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for the exemplary manner in which he led the sixty-sixth session. I also wish to pay tribute to Secretary-General Ban Ki- moon for his ongoing efforts to revitalize the global role of the United Nations and to bring reforms to the Organization. It is a great honour for me to speak from this rostrum for the first time on behalf of the people of the Republic of Moldova. Twenty-one years ago, my country broke away from the Soviet empire, and today it is undergoing a process of democratic transformation, with membership in the European Union as its ultimate goal. After a period of several years marked by political turmoil, my country now enjoys political stability, which allows it to develop and modernize. We have firmly defined European integration as our objective and have revived the economic and social reforms. Our priorities are the establishment of the rule of law and comprehensive judicial reform, with an emphasis on fighting corruption, modernization of the economy and reintegration of the country. The support and assistance provided by our European partners from Brussels and United Nations Member States are extremely important for us and assure us that we are on the right path. Two decades ago, on the very day the Republic of Moldova joined the United Nations, the peace in my country was shaken. The armed conflict in the Transnistrian region of the Republic of Moldova lasted for five months and caused the loss of many lives. It was a tragic period that, while now past, continues to pose a serious challenge in the present. Since the end of the hostilities, Moldova has firmly embarked on the road towards a peaceful settlement of that conflict. Twenty years of negotiations have strengthened our belief that that is the only viable path to follow in order to reach a political settlement. It is obvious that the perpetuation of the conflict does not offer any real benefit to the majority of the people on either bank of the Nistru river. It undermines our national security and territorial integrity, hampers economic development and divides our society. Moreover, the conflict keeps the population of the Transnistrian region in isolation, incites human rights violations and generates economic stagnation on the left bank of the Nistru. The current political and economic trends show that preserving the status quo is not a viable scenario anymore. All of our international partners share the view that there is no alternative to a reunified Moldova. Our message in that regard is firm – 20 years are enough to overcome the mistrust of the past and it is time to start building a shared future. The key elements in the approach of the Moldovan authorities to resolving the conflict are also clear. Our ultimate goal is to reintegrate the Republic of Moldova within its internationally recognized borders as a functional State with a clear European perspective. The Transnistrian region should be granted a special status within Moldova, which will provide the region with a comfortable level of self-governance. Defining the special status is the core task of the political negotiations in the “5+2” format. That negotiation process should lead to a reasonable compromise based on the principles of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Moldova. In parallel, we will continue to implement confidence-building measures aimed at bringing communities from both banks of the Nistru River closer to each other. By promoting business links, ensuring freedom of movement, protecting human rights, improving security and combating criminality, we will prepare a better ground for a political solution. Transformation of the existing military peacekeeping mechanism into an international civilian mission aimed at building confidence rather than separating the sides has also become an imperative. Our international partners provide an essential contribution to bringing that conflict to an end. Growing assistance from the European Union is an encouraging example in that regard. The negotiation process now needs a strong stimulus, and we believe that our international partners can demonstrate the necessary political will to that end. We call on the 5+2 format negotiators, namely, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Russian Federation, Ukraine, the European Union and the United States of America, to pool their efforts and work together towards the final resolution of the Transnistrian conflict and reintegration of the Republic of Moldova. It is also important to reiterate that Russian forces are still present on the territory of the Republic of Moldova, without the consent of the host country and in breach of the Moldovan Constitution and international commitments, and they should be finally withdrawn. The universal character of the United Nations and its unique role in managing international relations are widely recognized. There is no alternative to this Organization. Yet, globalization and the global financial crisis have demonstrated the need to reform the Organization in order to ensure the progressive and sustainable strengthening of the United Nations. I am referring in particular to Security Council reform, to which a compromise solution should be found. We believe that any proposal for its reform should take into account the legitimate aspirations of all regional groups, including granting an additional non-permanent seat to the Eastern European States. In its capacity as a member of the Human Rights Council, the Committee on Conferences, the Policy and Programme Coordination Committee, the Committee on Information, the Commission for Population and Development and other United Nations elective bodies, the Republic of Moldova will continue to support efforts towards the comprehensive reform of the United Nations system and its main bodies and organs, including the revitalization of the General Assembly and the reform of the Security Council aimed at enhancing the efficiency, transparency, accountability and representativeness of the system. The relationship between the United Nations and regional organizations is of paramount importance for the maintenance of international peace and security. In many instances, all those organizations have unique and complementary capacities that, when properly coordinated, can contribute decisively to the prevention and management of conflicts, including protracted ones. From that point of view, during this session we will strongly support the consideration by the General Assembly of the issue of cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations, particularly the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe, the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization and other organizations. In the same context, considering the distinct objective devoted to democracy and economic development, the increased potential and role in economic development and regional integration, as well as the strong determination of the countries of the Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Moldova (GUAM) Organization for Democracy and Economic Development to actively contribute to international security, stability and peace, the delegations of its member States have decided to advance for consideration of the General Assembly during its current session a draft resolution on cooperation between the United Nations and GUAM. At this stage, the process of development and integration of our States is still burdened by some outstanding problems, including unresolved conflicts in the territories of the Republic of Azerbaijan, Georgia and the Republic of Moldova. We reaffirm our unswerving commitment to finding peaceful solutions to those conflicts on the basis of respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our countries. Promoting the rule of law at the national and international levels is at the heart of the United Nations mission and is fundamental to achieving durable peace, supporting openness in Government, the effective protection of human rights and sustained economic growth and development. We emphasize the importance of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels (A/67/PV.3), held on 24 September, and will continue to support efforts in that direction during the sixtyseventh session. In our view, strengthening the rule of law will help to maintain peace, promote development and enhance cooperation, and is therefore conducive to the achievement of the goal of building a harmonious world. The non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, disarmament and the efficient control of armaments remain vital topics on the international cooperation agenda, which need the common understanding, political will and engaged efforts of all States and international organizations. The Republic of Moldova fully supports the international community in exerting continuous control of and applying the necessary preventive measures against unlawful attempts to develop weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery, which pose a real threat to international security and are often used to challenge the existing world order. The Republic of Moldova established significant objectives and is undertaking tangible steps in accomplishing its priorities in the field of arms control. In cooperation with our partners, the Government of the Republic of Moldova is in the process of adjusting to the best international standards, adopting dual-use goods export control legislation, improving small arms and light weapons management for civilians and the military, ensuring proper border management, and actively cooperating at the regional and international levels. Military conflicts in different regions of the planet and the global economic crises have brought human rights issues once again to our attention. The principles of international law and human rights standards can be promoted only by joint efforts and decisions. Acts of aggression, including attacks against the personnel and integrity of diplomatic facilities, represent a violation of international norms and deserve our firm condemnation. The relevant bodies of the United Nations, including the Human Rights Council, have sufficient instruments to take action on behalf of States in order to prevent human rights violations, conduct country evaluations and provide tailored solutions. As a member of the Human Rights Council for the term of 2010 to 2013 and, as Vice-Chair of the Third Committee at its previous session, the Republic of Moldova continuously pledges to keep an open mind in furthering the cause of promoting and protecting human rights worldwide. The world economic crisis is an incentive for putting into practice the idea of sustainable development, which could simultaneously provide solutions for maintaining the pace of economic growth and prevent climate change. We support the renewal of the global commitment made at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and the agreement on establishing the sustainable development goals (see resolution 66/288, annex). We believe that promoting a green economy model will help enterprises to reconfigure in order to streamline natural, human and economic investments. Finally, I would like to reiterate that the Republic of Moldova is a strong supporter of the United Nations role in global governance and the management of international crises. We believe in the potential and capacities of the United Nations to find adequate responses and take concrete actions aimed at resolving the ever-increasing global challenges. The Republic of Moldova is definitely contributing to that activity.﻿At the outset I would like to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to wish him all success. I would also like to express my thanks to Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of the General Assembly at its previous session and one of the most capable Qatari diplomats, for his efforts to ensure the successful work of the General Assembly. I would also like to seize this opportunity to thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his continued work in support of the role of the United Nations. These days, the Arab world is experiencing a difficult and risky period that is, at the same time, full of hope. As a matter of fact, it is an impressive attempt to correct prevailing conditions in a region with a special history, at a time when the world order is rapidly changing. The current period represents a special, new and unprecedented experience that forms part of human history. Today’s experiences differ from the previous experiences of nations and peoples who participated in changing times. They accepted the necessary consequences and bore the costs with the knowledge that the costs were consistent with moving forward at the appropriate time in response to ambitions towards freedom, enlightenment, respect for the dignity of man and development. But the Arab experience of transition is unique in its pace and process. Conditions in the Arab world, seen from afar, may show disturbances and problems in many places with images of smoke and flames. However, I would like, from this rostrum, to reassure all those who are following the events in the region and may sometimes feel uncomfortable about what they see and hear. Those events represent the movement of a nation struggling to cope with the times and continue its forward march, as it has many times before. Yet now that march has been interrupted by obstacles, both external and internal and regional and international. Those obstacles have frustrated its will and derailed its march. But it has recently taken matters into its own hands after having suffered dictatorship, dependence and corruption. We remember that the American political and social experience was born of a civil war that the country had to undergo to affirm its unity. Today’s Europe experienced terrible world wars until it achieved a degree of unity that could not be achieved by arms or hegemony. And Asia has seen highly successful cases of nations advancing and achieving their aspirations, after long periods of painful new birth. I say this to assure whoever cares about our part of the world and its future that what is going on in our region is natural and historic. It is not reasonable to expect that people can attain their freedom as soon as they ask for it. Human history shows that peoples have sacrificed their lives and wealth to gain freedom. In the same way, dictatorships do not change at the first signs of revolution but require real resistance to depose them. The desire for advancement will not eliminate backwardness except through hard work. Occupied territories will never be restored by a mere rejection of the occupation, but by persistence in demanding rights and by resistance using all legitimate means. What adds to the difficulties of the transition in our Arab world is that it takes place in a time of great aspirations and a climate subject to all sorts of changes and complications. Our peoples have had to fight to change their lives under circumstances that differ greatly from those faced by others in similar situations. In America, Europe, Asia and other places, historical transitions have taken place within certain limits. In the Arab world, however, that birth has had to take place under spotlights, before the eyes of the entire world, under the watchful eye of satellites crisscrossing space and shaped by electronic media, without any shield or barrier of any sort. In order to achieve their objectives, those who undertake internal and external interventions to peoples from attaining their legitimate rights do not hesitate to use all means at their disposal, from exploitation of the past and its complex legacy to other means of provocation. They can even use arms, shedding seas of blood, if other means fail or take too long. All of that has made our transition from past to future and from backwardness to development a risky process, under fire from all corners. Together with others, we realized the risks inherent in the current phase of the evolution of our nation and of the Arab world. If we could ask for one thing during this session, it would be an encouraging reconfirmation of the right of our Arab world to continue its advancement and achieve its aspirations in a new world, a world shaped by science and technology, a world that the pioneers who wrote the well-known conventions on rights and freedom could not have imagined. On the other hand, I hope that this world gathering will take a stand that reflects sympathy with the historic transformations under way in the Arab world. That would reassure the people who are working hard and with determination to carve out a place for themselves in history and who struggle to achieve freedom and dignity, hoping for a better tomorrow for future generations. The situation in Syria has reached an unacceptable phase. Hundreds of innocent Syrians are killed every day, under the fire of a regime that does not hesitate to use all sorts of weapons against its own people. We have used all available means to help Syria extricate itself from the cycle of killing, but in vain. The Security Council has failed to reach an effective position. In view of that, I believe that the Arab countries themselves should intervene, in order to fulfil their national humanitarian, political and military duties, and do what is necessary to stop the bloodshed in Syria, the killing of innocent people and their displacement and guarantee a peaceful transition of power. We do have a precedent in that respect. Arab forces intervened in Lebanon in the mid-1970s to stop the internal fighting there, and their efforts proved effective and useful. We urge all countries that believe in the cause of the Syrian people to provide every type of support to that people until they are able to secure their legitimate rights. Despite all the suffering in the Middle East, the core problem remains the Palestinian question: the continued Israeli occupation of the Arab territories in the West Bank, the Golan and Shaba’a farms in southern Lebanon, the stif ling blockade imposed on the Gaza Strip and the continued arrest and imprisonment of thousands of Palestinians in Israeli prisons. The peace process has stalled because of the current Israeli position that insists on continuing the policy of settlements in the Palestinian territories and Jerusalem and refusing to cede them. Sometimes I would like to ask why the international community does nothing to implement the relevant resolutions on the Middle East. Why does the Security Council not adopt a resolution under Chapter VII that would force Israel to lift the blockade of Gaza and stop its settlement activity, a resolution that would return the peace process to the comprehensive track instead of the piecemeal approach, which does not lead to results? I find no answer to my questions. We firmly believe in the importance of the freedom of expression and the right of people to express their opinion based on our belief in the sanctity of humanity and the dignity of man, who was created by God as free and dignified. At the same time, we believe that freedom should not exceed reasonable limits and become a tool to hurt and insult the dignity of others or ther dignity of religions, faiths and sacred beliefs. This is a phenomenon that we have seen lately and which has regrettably led to the killing of innocent people. We have called and we continue to call for dialogue in order to exchange information and experience. We have called and continue to call for dialogue among civilizations and religions. We have established the Doha International Centre for Interfaith Dialogue. We have called and still call for dialogue aimed at acquainting ourselves with ideas and experiences from all over the globe and to learn about different faiths in order to ensure that human culture is interconnected and everyone has a say in its creation. Everyone should reap its dividends, based on understanding, appreciation, knowledge and the full exercise of rights. I have on previous occasions reiterated the importance of that question and the need to strike a balance between respect for sacred faiths and religions and freedom of expression in order for tolerance to replace intolerance and acceptance of the other to replace rejection and stereotyping, which is neither fair nor right. Today, I would like to take this opportunity to call on the United Nations, those who exercise wisdom and reason and those who have decision-making power at the international level to drsft internationally agreed laws, procedures and controls aimed at preventing religions and faiths from being insulted under any pretext and, at the same time, upholding the right of mankind to know and express its opinions. Ms. Flores (Honduras), Vice-President, took the Chair. One of the great challenges that we must face is the question of climate change and its terrible and destructive consequences for all countries. This requires us to cooperate and work together to reach the best solutions to that challenge and overcome our differences. I would like to note that the State of Qatar will host the eighteenth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The importance of this conference is that it could produce a road map that could help us deal with the negative effects of this phenomenon. I would like take the opportunity of speaking in this international forum to invite all countries of the world to participate in the conference so that we may reach an international consensus on the matter. Before concluding, I would like to welcome the election of our brother Hassan Sheikh Mohamud as President of the Somali Republic, and to wish him every success in achieving security and stability in that country, whose people have suffered so much. I call on the international community to exert greater effort to help Somalia to reach a solution to its crisis that is acceptable to all the Somali parties, one that will pave the way for the return of peace to the country and will help rebuild the State after the long years of war and destruction.﻿It is a pleasure to see the General Assembly presided over by the Ambassador from Israel, and it is good to see all of the representatives here. Three thousand years ago, King David reigned over the Jewish State in our eternal capital, Jerusalem. I say that to all those who proclaim that the Jewish State has no roots in our region and that it will soon disappear. Throughout our history, the Jewish people have overcome all the tyrants who have sought our destruction. It is their ideologies that have been discarded by history. The people of Israel live on. We say in Hebrew, the Jewish State will live forever. The Jewish people have lived in the land of Israel for thousands of years. Even after most of our people were exiled from it, Jews continued to live in the land of Israel throughout the ages. The masses of our people never gave up the dream of returning to our ancient homeland. Defying the laws of history, we did just that. We ingathered the exiles, restored our independence and rebuilt our national life. The Jewish people have come home. We will never be uprooted again. Yesterday was Yom Kippur, the holiest day of the Jewish year. Every year, for over three millennia, we have come together on this day of ref lection and atonement. We take stock of our past. We pray for our future. We remember the sorrows of our persecution; we remember the great travails of our dispersion; we mourn the extermination of a third of our people, 6 million, in the Holocaust. But at the end of Yom Kippur, we celebrate. We celebrate the rebirth of Israel. We celebrate the heroism of our young men and women who have defended our people with the indomitable courage of Joshua, David and the Maccabees of old. We celebrate the marvel of the flourishing modern Jewish State. In Israel we walk the same paths as those trodden by our patriarchs Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. But we blaze new trails in science, technology, medicine and agriculture. In Israel the past and the future find common ground. Unfortunately, that is not the case in many other countries. For today, a great battle is being waged between the modern and the medieval. The forces of modernity seek a bright future in which the rights of all are protected, in which an ever-expanding digital library is available in the palm of every child, in which every life is sacred. The forces of medievalism seek a world in which women and minorities are subjugated, in which knowledge is suppressed, in which not life but death is glorified. Those forces clash around the globe, but nowhere more starkly than in the Middle East. Israel stands proudly with the forces of modernity. We protect the rights of all our citizens, men and women, Jews and Arabs, Muslims and Christians — all are equal before the law. Israel is also making the world a better place. Our scientists win Nobel Prizes. Our know-how is in every cell phone and computer that every one of us uses. We prevent hunger by irrigating arid lands in Africa and Asia. Recently, I was deeply moved when I visited Technion, one of our technological institutes in Haifa, and I saw a man paralysed from the waist down climb up a f light of stairs, quite easily, with the aid of an Israeli invention. And Israel’s exceptional creativity is matched by our people’s remarkable compassion. When disaster strikes anywhere in the world — in Haiti, Japan, India, Turkey, Indonesia and elsewhere — Israeli doctors are among the first on the scene, performing lifesaving surgeries. In the past year, I lost both my father and my father-in-law. In the same hospital wards where they were treated, Israeli doctors were treating Palestinian Arabs. In fact, every year, thousands of Arabs from the Palestinian territories and Arabs from throughout the Middle East come to Israel to be treated in Israeli hospitals by Israeli doctors. I know that that is not going to be spoken by speakers at this podium, but it is the truth. It is important that the world be aware of that truth. It is because Israel cherishes life that Israel cherishes peace and seeks peace. We seek to preserve our historic ties and our historic peace treaties with Egypt and Jordan. We seek to forge a durable peace with the Palestinians. President Abbas just spoke here. I say to him and I say to the Assembly: we will not solve our conflict with libellous speeches at the United Nations. That is not the way to solve it. We will not solve our conflict with unilateral declarations of statehood. We have to sit together, negotiate together and reach a mutual compromise, in which a demilitarized Palestinian State recognizes the one and only Jewish State. Israel wants to see a Middle East of progress and peace. We want to see the three great religions that sprang forth from our region — Judaism, Christianity and Islam — coexist in peace and in mutual respect. Yet the medieval forces of radical Islam, which the world just saw storming American Embassies throughout the Middle East, oppose that. They seek supremacy over all Muslims. They are bent on world conquest. They want to destroy Israel, Europe, America. They want to extinguish freedom. They want to end the modern world. Militant Islam has many branches, from the rulers of Iran with their Revolutionary Guards to Al-Qaida terrorists to the radical cells lurking in every part of the globe. But despite their differences, they are all rooted in the same bitter soil of intolerance. That intolerance is directed first at their fellow Muslims and then at Christians, Jews, Buddhists, Hindus, secular people, and anyone who does not submit to their unforgiving creed. They want to drag humankind back to an age of unquestioning dogma and unrelenting conflict. I am sure of one thing. Ultimately, they will fail. Ultimately, light will penetrate the darkness. We have seen that happen before. Some 500 years ago, the printing press helped pry a cloistered Europe out of a dark age. Eventually, ignorance gave way to enlightenment. So too, a cloistered Middle East will eventually yield to the irresistible power of freedom and technology. When that happens, our region will be guided not by fanaticism and conspiracy but by reason and curiosity. I think the relevant question is not whether this fanaticism will be defeated. It is how many lives will be lost before it is defeated. We have seen that happen before too. Some 70 years ago, the world saw another fanatic ideology bent on world conquest. It went down in flames, but not before it took millions of people with it. Those who opposed that fanaticism waited too long to act. In the end they triumphed, but at a horrific cost. My friends, we cannot let that happen again. At stake is not merely the future of my own country. At stake is the future of the world. Nothing could imperil our common future more than the arming of Iran with nuclear weapons. To understand what the world would be like with a nuclear-armed Iran, just imagine the world with a nuclear-armed Al-Qaida. It makes little difference whether these lethal weapons are in the hands of the world’s most dangerous terrorist regime or the world’s most dangerous terrorist organization. They are both fired by the same hatred; they are both driven by the same lust for violence. Just look at what the Iranian regime has done up until now, without nuclear weapons. In 2009, they brutally put down mass protests for democracy in their own country. Today, their henchmen are participating in the slaughter of tens of thousands of Syrian civilians, including thousands of children — directly participating in those murders. They abetted the killing of American soldiers in Iraq and continue to do so in Afghanistan. Before that, Iranian proxies killed hundreds of American troops in Beirut and in Saudi Arabia. They have turned Lebanon and Gaza into terror strongholds, embedding nearly 100,000 missiles and rockets in civilian areas. Thousands of such rockets and missiles have already been fired at Israeli communities by their terrorist proxies. In the past year, they have spread their international terror networks to two dozen countries across five continents, from India and Thailand to Kenya and Bulgaria. They have even plotted to blow up a restaurant a few blocks from the White House in order to kill a diplomat. And of course, Iran’s rulers repeatedly deny the Holocaust and call for Israel’s destruction almost on a daily basis, as they did again this week from the United Nations. So I ask, given this record of Iranian aggression without nuclear weapons, just imagine Iranian aggression with nuclear weapons. Imagine their long- range missiles tipped with nuclear warheads, their terror networks armed with atomic bombs. Who here would feel safe in the Middle East? Who would be safe in Europe? Who would be safe in America? Who would be safe anywhere? There are those who believe that a nuclear-armed Iran can be deterred like the Soviet Union. That is a very dangerous assumption. Militant jihadists behave very differently from secular Marxists. There were no Soviet suicide bombers. Yet Iran produces hordes of them. Deterrence worked with the Soviets, because every time the Soviets faced a choice between their ideology and their survival, they chose their survival. But deterrence may not work with the Iranians once they get nuclear weapons. A great scholar of the Middle East, Professor Bernard Lewis, put it best. He said that for the ayatollahs of Iran mutually assured destruction is not a deterrent, it is an inducement. Iran’s apocalyptic leaders believe that a medieval holy man will reappear in the wake of a devastating holy war, thereby ensuring that their brand of radical Islam will rule the Earth. That is not just what they believe; it is what is actually guiding their policies and their actions. Just listen to Ayatollah Rafsanjani who said, “the use of even one nuclear bomb inside Israel will destroy everything, however it would only harm the Islamic world.” Rafsanjani said: “It is not irrational to contemplate such an eventuality”. “Not irrational” is what he said. And that is coming from one of the so-called moderates of Iran. Shockingly, some people have begun to peddle the absurd notion that a nuclear-armed Iran would actually stabilize the Middle East. That is like saying a nuclear- armed Al-Qaida would usher in an era of universal peace. I have been speaking about the need to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons for over 15 years. I spoke about it in my first term in office as Prime Minister, and then I spoke about it when I left office. I spoke about it when it was fashionable, and I spoke about it when it was not fashionable. I speak about it now because the hour is getting late, very late. I speak about it now because the Iranian nuclear calendar does not take time out for anyone or for anything. I speak about it now because when it comes to the survival of my country, it is not only my right to speak, it is my duty to speak. And I believe that it is the duty of every responsible leader who wants to preserve world peace. For nearly a decade, the international community has tried to stop the Iranian nuclear programme with diplomacy. That has not worked. Iran uses diplomatic negotiations as a means to buy time to advance its nuclear programme. For over seven years, the international community has tried sanctions with Iran. Under the leadership of President Obama, the international community has passed some of the strongest sanctions to date. I want to thank the Governments represented here that have joined in that effort. It has had an effect. Oil exports have been curbed and the Iranian economy has been hit hard. It has had an effect on the economy, but we must face the truth. Sanctions have not stopped Iran’s nuclear programme either. According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, during the last year alone, Iran doubled the number of centrifuges in its underground nuclear facility in Qom. At this late hour, there is only one way to peacefully prevent Iran from getting atomic bombs. That is by placing a clear red line on Iran’s nuclear weapons programme. Red lines do not lead to war. Red lines prevent war. Look at NATO’s charter. It made clear that an attack on one member country would be considered an attack on all. NATO’s red line helped keep the peace in Europe for nearly half a century. President Kennedy set a red line during the Cuban missile crisis. That red line also prevented war and helped preserve the peace for decades. In fact, it is the failure to place red lines that has often invited aggression. If the Western Powers had drawn clear red lines during the 1930s, I believe they would have stopped Nazi aggression, and the Second World War might have been avoided. In 1990, if Saddam Hussein had been clearly told that his conquest of Kuwait would cross a red line, the first Gulf War might have been avoided. Clear red lines have also worked with Iran. Earlier this year, Iran threatened to close the Straits of Hormuz. The United States drew a clear red line and Iran backed off. Now, red lines could be drawn in different parts of Iran’s nuclear weapons programme, but to be credible, a red line must be drawn first and foremost in one vital part of their programme: on Iran’s efforts to enrich uranium. Now let me explain why. Basically, any bomb consists of explosive material and a mechanism to ignite it. The simplest example is gunpowder and a fuse — that is, you light the fuse and you set off the gunpowder. In the case of Iran’s plans to build a nuclear weapon, the gunpowder is enriched uranium. The fuse is a nuclear detonator. For Iran, amassing enough enriched uranium is far more difficult than producing the nuclear fuse. For a country like Iran, it takes many years to enrich uranium for a bomb. That requires thousands of centrifuges spinning in tandem in very big industrial plants. Those Iranian plants are visible and they are still vulnerable. In contrast, Iran could produce the nuclear detonator, the fuse, in a lot less time — maybe under a year, maybe only a few months. The detonator can be made in a small workshop the size of a classroom. It may be very difficult to find and target that workshop, especially in Iran. That is a country that is bigger than France, Germany, Italy and Britain combined. The same is true for the small facility in which they could assemble a warhead or a nuclear device that could be placed in a container ship. Chances are you will not find that facility either. So in fact, the only way that you can credibly prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon, is to prevent Iran from amassing enough enriched uranium for a bomb. So how much enriched uranium do you need for a bomb, and how close is Iran to getting it? Let me show you. I brought a diagram for you. Here is the diagram. This is a bomb. This is a fuse. In the case of Iran’s nuclear plans to build a bomb, this bomb has to be filled with enough enriched uranium, and Iran has to go through three stages. In the first stage they have to enrich enough low-enriched uranium; in the second stage they have to enrich enough medium-enriched uranium. And in the third, and final, stage they have to enrich enough high-enriched uranium for the first bomb. Where is Iran? Iran has completed the first stage. It took them many years, but they completed it, and they are 70 per cent of the way there. Now they are well into the second stage. By next spring, at most by next summer, at current enrichment rates, they will have finished the medium enrichment and moved on to the final stage. From there, it is only a few months, possibly a few weeks, before they get enough enriched uranium for the first bomb. What I told the Assembly just now is not based on secret information. It is not based on military intelligence. It is based on public reports of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Anybody can read them. They are online. So if these are the facts — and they are — where should a red line be drawn? A red line should be drawn right here, before Iran completes the second stage of nuclear enrichment necessary to make a bomb and before Iran gets to a point where it is a few months away or a few weeks away from amassing enough enriched uranium to make a nuclear weapon. Each day, that point is getting closer. That is why I speak today with such a sense of urgency, and that is why everyone should have a sense of urgency. There are some who claim that even if Iran completes the enrichment process, even if it crosses that red line that I just drew, our intelligence agencies will know when and where Iran will make the fuse, assemble the bomb and prepare the warhead. No one appreciates our intelligence agencies more than the Prime Minister of Israel. All these leading intelligence agencies are superb, including ours. They have foiled many attacks, they have saved many lives, but they are not foolproof. For over two years, our intelligence agencies did not know that Iran was building a huge nuclear enrichment plant under a mountain. Do we want to risk the security of the world on the assumption that we would find a small workshop in a country half the size of Europe in time? The relevant question is not when Iran will get the bomb. The relevant question is at what stage can we no longer stop Iran from getting the bomb? The red line must be drawn on Iran’s nuclear enrichment programme because these enrichment facilities are the only nuclear installations that we can definitely see and credibly target. I believe that faced with a clear red line, Iran will back down. This will give more time for sanctions and diplomacy to convince Iran to dismantle its nuclear weapons programme altogether. Two days ago, from this podium, President Obama reiterated that the threat of a nuclear-armed Iran cannot be contained (see A/67/PV.6). I very much appreciate the President’s position, as does everyone in my country. We share the goal of stopping Iran’s nuclear weapons programme. This goal unites the people of Israel. It unites Americans, Democrats and Republicans alike. and it is shared by important leaders throughout the world. What I have said today will help ensure that this common goal is achieved. Israel is in discussions with the United States over this issue, and I am confident that we can chart a path forward together. The clash between modernity and medievalism need not be a clash between progress and tradition. The traditions of the Jewish people go back thousands of years. They are the source of our collective values and the foundations of our national strength. At the same time, the Jewish people have always looked towards the future. Throughout history, we have been at the forefront of efforts to expand liberty, promote equality and advance human rights. We champion those principles not in spite of our traditions but because of them. We heed the words of the Jewish prophets Isaiah, Amos and Jeremiah to treat all with dignity and compassion, to pursue justice and cherish life and to pray and strive for peace. Those are the timeless values of my people, and they are the Jewish people’s greatest gift to humankind. Let us commit ourselves today to defending those values so that we can defend our freedoms and protect our common civilization.﻿Once again, a woman’s voice is opening the general debate of the General Assembly. For many, we women are “half the sky”. However, we wish to be half the Earth as well, with equal rights and opportunities, free from all forms of discrimination and violence, capable of building our own emancipation and, with it, of contributing to the full empowerment of all. A year after my statement at this same rostrum (see A/66/PV.11), I note that many of the problems that already troubled us in September 2011 remain. Today, I want to again consider a few of those issues, whose solutions are becoming increasingly urgent. The grave economic crisis that began in 2008 has taken on new and worrisome aspects. Opting for orthodox fiscal policies has been exacerbating the recession in developed economies, with repercussions for us as emerging countries, including Brazil. The main leaders of the developed world have not yet found the path that combines appropriate fiscal adjustment with measures to stimulate investment and demand, which are indispensable to halt the recession and ensure economic growth. Monetary policies cannot be the only response to the growing unemployment, the increase in poverty and the dismay that affects the most vulnerable sectors of the population throughout the world. The central banks of developed countries continue to pursue expansionist monetary policies, which causes an imbalance in exchange rates. The resulting artificial appreciation of emerging countries’ currencies causes them to lose market space, which further exacerbates the global recession. We cannot accept the legitimate trade protection initiatives of developing countries being unfairly classified as protectionism. We must remember that legitimate trade protection measures are in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organization. We should fight protectionism and all forms of trade manipulation, since they create greater competitiveness in a spurious and fraudulent way. There can be no effective response to the crisis without strengthening cooperation efforts among countries and multilateral bodies, such as the Group of Twenty, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Such cooperation must seek to reshape the relationship between fiscal and monetary policies in order to prevent the recession from worsening, to control the currency war and to again stimulate global demand. We know from our own experience that the national debt of States and bank and financial debts will not be addressed in the context of a recession. On the contrary, recession only exacerbates such problems. It is urgent that we establish a comprehensive agreement for the coordinated resumption of global economic growth in order to prevent the despair caused by unemployment and a lack of opportunities. My country has been doing its part. In recent years, we have pursued prudent economic policies, accumulated significant foreign exchange reserves, strongly reduced public debt and, with innovative social policies, lifted 40 million Brazilians out of poverty, thereby strengthening a large domestic market. Like all countries, we were affected by the crisis. However, despite the temporary slowing in our growth rate, we have managed to maintain extremely high employment levels and to continue to reduce social inequality while significantly increasing workers’ income levels. We have overcome the incorrect view according to which measures to stimulate growth are incompatible with austerity plans. That is a false dilemma. Fiscal responsibility is as necessary as growth measures are indispensable, because fiscal consolidation can be sustainable only in a context of economic recovery. History reveals that austerity, when exaggerated and isolated from growth, is self-defeating. Brazil has chosen to face both of those challenges simultaneously. While exerting strict control over public spending, we have increased our investments in infrastructure and education. While controlling inflation, we have acted vigorously through policies aimed at social inclusion and poverty eradication. Furthermore, while carrying out structural reforms in the financial and welfare areas, we have reduced the tax burden and the cost of energy, and we have invested in infrastructure and knowledge to generate science, technology and innovation. There are moments in which we cannot choose between one alternative or the other. Both must be developed separately at the same time. Just as in 2011, the Middle East and North Africa continue to be at the center of the attention of the international community. Important social movements, with different political orientations, have swept away despotic regimes and brought about transition processes whose meaning and direction still cannot be clearly discerned. However, it is not difficult to identify in almost all those movements a cry of protest against poverty, unemployment and the lack of opportunities and civil rights imposed by authoritarian governments on large sectors of those societies, especially young people. Nor is it difficult to find in those events the traces of historical grievances caused by decades of colonial or neocolonial policies carried out in the name of a supposedly civilizing agenda. Little by little, the economic interests behind those policies became clear. Today, we are witnessing with consternation the unfolding of the dire situation in Syria. Brazil condemns in the strongest terms the violence that continues to claim lives in that country. Syria is witnessing a large-scale humanitarian tragedy on its territory and in that of its neighbors. The Government in Damascus bears the largest share of responsibility for the cycle of violence that has victimized a large number of civilians, especially women, children and young people. However, we are also aware of the responsibilities of armed opposition groups, especially those that increasingly rely on foreign military and logistical support. As President of a country that is home to millions of people of Syrian descent, I call on the parties to the conflict to lay down their weapons and join the mediation efforts being undertaken by the joint United Nations-Arab League special envoy. There is no military solution to the Syrian crisis. Diplomacy and dialogue are not simply our best option; they are the only option. As President of a country where thousands and thousands of Brazilian Muslims live, I declare here today our vehement repudiation of the escalation of Islamophobic prejudice in Western countries. Brazil is one of the players in the generous Alliance of Civilizations initiative originally launched by the Turkish Government. With the same vehemence, we repudiate the terrorist acts that took the lives of American diplomats in Libya. With our eyes still set upon the Middle East, where some of the most important challenges to international peace and security lie, I wish to once more touch upon the Israeli-Palestinian question. I reiterate my words of 2011, when I expressed the Brazilian Government’s support for the recognition of the Palestinian State as a full Member of the United Nations. I added then, and I repeat today, that only a free and sovereign Palestine will be able to fulfil Israel’s legitimate desires for peace with its neighbours, security in its borders and regional political stability. The international community has encountered growing difficulty in dealing with the exacerbation of regional conflicts. That is clear from the stalemates within the Security Council. It is one of the gravest problems that we face. The crisis that began in 2008 demonstrated the need for reform of the mechanisms of global economic governance. In point of fact, to this day we have still not fully implemented such reforms. Increasingly intense regional wars and conflicts, the tragic loss of human lives and the immense material losses for the peoples involved all demonstrate the utmost urgency of undertaking the institutional reform of the United Nations, in particular of its Security Council. We cannot allow the Council to be replaced, as has been the case, by coalitions that are formed without its consent, beyond its control and without due regard for international law. The use of force without authorization by the Council is clearly illegal, yet it is beginning to be regarded in some quarters as an acceptable option. It is by no means acceptable. The ease with which some resort to that kind of action results from the stalemates that paralyse the Council. Because of that, the Council must urgently be reformed. Brazil will always fight to ensure that decisions emanating from the United Nations prevail. But we want legitimate actions, founded on international legality. In this spirit, I have defended the need for “responsibility while protecting” as a necessary complement to the responsibility to protect. Multilateralism is stronger today after the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development — Rio+20. Together, during those days in June, we held the largest and most participative conference in the history of the United Nations. We were able to take firm steps towards the historic consolidation of a new paradigm: to grow, to include, to protect and to preserve — that is, sustainable development. I thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and Ambassador Sha Zukang for their efforts and their close collaboration with Brazil, before and throughout the Conference. The outcome document that we approved by consensus in Rio (resolution 66/288, annex) not only preserves the legacy of 1992 but also sets the starting point for a sustainable development agenda for the twenty-first century, with a focus on the eradication of poverty, on the conscientious use of natural resources and on sustainable patterns of production and consumption. The United Nations has before it a number of tasks mandated by the Rio Conference. In particular, I would like to make reference to the definition of the sustainable development goals. Rio+20 shone a powerful light on the future we want. We have an obligation to heed the many warnings being sounded by science and society. We must consider climate change one of the main challenges to present and future generations. The Brazilian Government is firmly committed to the targets for controlling greenhouse gas emissions and to the unrelenting fight against deforestation in the Amazon rainforest. In 2009, we voluntarily took on commitments and adopted them as laws. Those targets are particularly ambitious for a developing country, which must deal with pressing demands of all types in order to promote the well-being of its population. We hope that those countries that bear a greater historical responsibility for climate change and that have greater means with which to deal with it will fulfil their obligations to the international community. Another United Nations initiative we commend is the Decade of Action for Road Safety 2011-2020. Brazil is engaged in efforts to protect lives and reduce road accidents, one of the main causes of death among young people of the world. To that end, our Government is developing a wide-ranging awareness-raising campaign together with the Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile. In a context of environmental challenges, economic crises and threats to peace in different parts of the world, Brazil continues committed to working with its neighbours to build an environment of democracy, peace, prosperity and social justice. We have made great progress in integrating the Latin American and Caribbean region as a priority for international cooperation. Our region is a good example for the world. The rule of law that we have achieved by overcoming authoritarian regimes is being preserved and strengthened. Democracy is not a heritage immune to attacks. In order to avoid setbacks, the Southern Common Market and the Union of South American Nations have been firm when they had to be, because we consider integration and democracy to be inseparable principles. I also reaffirm our commitment to keeping our region free from weapons of mass destruction. In that regard, I wish to recall the existence of immense arsenals that, in addition to threatening all humankind, aggravate tensions and hamper efforts towards peace. The world clamours for food instead of weapons, for the billions of men, women and children who suffer from the cruelest punishment inf licted on humanity: hunger. Finally, I wish to refer to a brother country, beloved by all Latin Americans and Caribbeans — Cuba. Cuba has made great progress in bringing its economic model up to date. To continue on its path, it needs the support of partners both near and far. Cooperation on Cuba’s progress is, however, hampered by the economic embargo that has plagued its population for decades. The time has long since passed for us to put an end to that anachronism, which is condemned by the immense majority of Members of the United Nations. This year, we watched the Olympic and Paralympic Games brilliantly organized by the United Kingdom. With the closing of the London Olympic Games, Brazil has begun the countdown towards the Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games in 2016, which will be preceded by the 2014 World Cup. Every two years, during the Summer and Winter Games, humanity seems to reawaken to values that should inspire us permanently: tolerance, respect for differences, equality, inclusion, friendship and understanding. Those principles are also the foundation of human rights and of this Organization. At the opening of the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly, I propose to all the nations represented here that they let the ideals of the Olympic flame shine upon them. Strengthening the United Nations is necessary at this stage when multipolarity opens a historic new perspective. We must work towards that end. We must work to ensure that in the multipolarity that is coming to prevail, cooperation predominates over conflict, dialogue overcomes threats and negotiated solutions are reached before and forestall interventions involving the use of force. I reiterate that in this necessarily collective effort, which presupposes the quest for consensus, the United Nations has a key role to play, particularly as the Organization and its various bodies become more representative and more legitimate and therefore more effective. ﻿It is always a very significant moment for the delegation of Burkina Faso when we find ourselves present at this traditional meeting that opens the annual session of the General Assembly. For us, it is a special moment for ref lection on how the world is progressing and for sketching ways to build a world of peace, security and solidarity. The sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly is taking place in an atmosphere of uncertainty related to the very difficult international economic situation and the growing threats to international peace and security. The challenges that the situation poses to world require of us greater courage, effort, creativity and solidarity, if all of us wish one day to achieve the objectives of peace and development so dear to the international community. This year, Burkina Faso has been tested by a food crisis resulting from poor rainfall. The grain and cereal shortage was exacerbated by a massive inf low of tens of thousands of refugees from neighbouring Mali, sometimes with all of their cattle, as a result of the crisis that has raged in that brother country since 17 January. The situation has led the Government of Burkina Faso to undertake vigorous and urgent measures that have enabled us to contain its negative impact on the most vulnerable strata of society and welcome our brothers and sisters from Mali in acceptable human conditions. I should like to reiterate the gratitude of the Government and the people of Burkina Faso to the relevant specialized agencies of the United Nations systems, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), the West African Economic and Monetary Union, the Kingdom of Morocco, the Republic of China (Taiwan), the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Japan, Tunisia, Egypt and Azerbaijan, who have lent us their assistance to ensure that refugees and worst-off populations of Burkina Faso are able to live dignified lives. At the political level, Burkina Faso, within the framework of the implementation of the conclusions of the Consultative Council on Political Reforms, is continuing the strengthening and consolidation of its democratic process. Following the successful holding of a biometric registration effort covering the entire national territory, December of this year will witness the organization of joint legislative and municipal elections on the basis of greater transparency and fairness. Turning to the economy, Burkina Faso is continuing its policy of building a strong and prosperous economy to serve the basic needs of its population. To do that, we have adopted a strategy of accelerated growth and sustainable development to fulfil our drive for progress towards becoming an emerging country and enabling it to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. We welcome the backing of Burkina Faso’s partners for that strategy, whose ultimate goal is to achieve strong and sustained economic growth that serves to multiplies revenue and improves the population’s quality of life, while taking into account the guiding principles of sustainable management of natural resources. The annual foreign financing needs of the strategy remain significant, despite the efforts undertaken by the Government of Burkina Faso on the basis of our own resources. We are hopeful that our bilateral and multilateral partners, as they have done in the past, will be at our side to ensure a successful implementation of the strategy. We wish to convey our gratitude to those that have already demonstrated their solidarity with us. Burkina Faso is aware that there can be no sustainable development without peace and stability. That is why President Blaise Compaoré has turned dialogue and mediation into new levers for the maintenance of harmony and understanding among peoples. We are very grateful to President Vuk Jeremić for having placed this session of the General Assembly under the banner, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. That theme underscores the importance of resorting to peaceful means as an appropriate mechanism for the settlement of disputes. Burkina Faso fully associates itself with the choice of that topic which, following on the sixty-sixth session, will enable the international community to deepen its thinking and commit itself resolutely to the peaceful settlement of conflicts through dialogue to avoid stalemate and the escalation of violence, which reduces to nought our efforts aimed at promoting sustainable economic and social development. It is along those lines that the President of Burkina Faso has accepted the mediation mission that its peers from the Economic Community of West African States have entrusted him within the framework of the crisis in Mali. The ECOWAS mediation, whose goal is to resolve, through dialogue, the dual institutional and security crisis that is raging in Mali, has focused its efforts on restoring the normal constitutional order and to setting up stable transition bodies that are accepted by Malians and recognized by the international community in order to implement the road map contained in the framework agreement of 6 April, which deals with the management of the crisis and the organization of elections. Burkina Faso will continue to work under the ECOWAS framework, with the support of the international community, towards Mali’s reunification and reconciliation so as to create conditions conducive to the holding of free and democratic elections throughout all of Mali. The establishment of stable and lasting peace in Mali will require a comprehensive approach combining political dialogue and the use of force mainly aimed at neutralizing extremist terrorist groups of a transnational nature, whose presence in the north of Mali is likely to irretrievably compromise efforts aimed at better governance and social and economic development. The President of Burkina Faso, with the assistance of President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, will continue in a clear-headed way to seek solutions to the deep-rooted causes of the crisis undermining our subregion, a crisis which the armed rebellion has but exacerbated. I therefore call upon the Malian armed movements to renounce the systematic use of arms as a means to achieve their demands. I urge them to respect the fundamental freedoms of their fellow citizens and to clearly distance themselves from extremist and terrorist movements in order to promote the values of dialogue and democracy to which Mali is so wedded. The crisis situation in the north of Mali is a tangible manifestation of the type of threat facing all of the countries of the Sahel region. I therefore welcome the timely initiative of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon that brought us together on 26 September on the margins of the General Assembly around the issue of peace, security and development in the States of the Sahel region. I renew my gratitude and reiterate to him the regard and appreciation of the Government of Burkina Faso for his availability and commitment to peace and development in Africa and throughout the world. Always working for international peace and security, Burkina Faso contributes to peacekeeping operations in Darfur and Guinea-Bissau. On Guinea-Bissau, Burkina Faso encourages the efforts undertaken by the transitional bodies to quickly restore constitutional order and urges all of the country’s stakeholders to ensure a consensual and inclusive transition and to create the best possible conditions in which to implement priority reforms, organize free and transparent presidential elections and entrench the rule of law. On Darfur, we encourage the parties to better implement the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur, and we continue to contribute through the implementation and follow-up mechanism provided for by the Doha Document. On the issue of the Western Sahara, Burkina Faso welcomes the determination of the parties to explore appropriate ways and means to achieve a fair and agreed political settlement of the issue. The current status quo is neither viable nor of benefit to any of the parties, given its impact on the subregion’s peace and security. That is why my country has continuously promoted dialogue and compromise aimed at achieving an acceptable political solution between the parties. In that regard, we believe that the Moroccan initiative for the negotiation of an autonomous status for the Saharan region could be an appropriate way to settle differences. The world is experiencing great uncertainty and anxiety as a result of the international economic and financial instability, the increase in poverty, ongoing environmental degradation and the increase in natural disasters. In particular, the recent international financial crises, which seriously compromised the balance of our economies, are sorely testing the cohesion of our societies. They have an impact on all of us and require of us constant vigilance and sustained solidarity. The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), held from 18 to 22 June in Brazil, rightly reminded us of our shared but differentiated responsibilities to protect our planet and to ensure sustainable development for future generations. It is essential that efforts continue on the basis of the consensus reached at the Conference in order to find acceptable compromises that take into account the interests of the various regions of the world. Burkina Faso attaches special importance to all issues related to the empowerment of women. To that end, we have spared no effort to improve women’s legal and social status in our country. The First Lady of Burkina Faso, Mrs. Chantal Compaoré, Goodwill Ambassador and Coordinator of the International Campaign to Ban Female Genital Mutilation Worldwide, co-chaired during this session the high-level side event on banning female genital mutilation. That is yet another demonstration of her well-known commitment to the defence of women’s rights and the improvement of the status of women. In that connection, we reiterate our full support for the African initiative to introduce at this session a draft resolution aimed at a global ban on female genital mutilation. We hope that it will enjoy the support of the entire international community. Furthermore, we welcome efforts undertaken since the launch of UN-Women and we hope that this new body will strengthen United Nations activities aimed at the empowerment of women, the defence of their rights and the promotion of gender equality, especially in developing countries. Burkina Faso believes in multilateralism, solidarity between peoples and the virtue of dialogue among nations. In that regard, my delegation notes with great satisfaction the calm atmosphere that currently prevails in the relations between the Republic of China (Taiwan) and the People’s Republic of China. That would argue in favour of granting the Republic of China its rightful place among the family of nations, including through its meaningful participation in the activities of international organizations such as the International Civil Aviation Organization and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The nature of the threats and challenges facing the world demands of us a better sharing of responsibilities through a reform of the United Nations. Such reform remains a topic of great concern at the very heart of global governance. We hope that the negotiations launched within the framework of this reform will result in acceptable compromises that can strengthen the effectiveness and standing of the United Nations as it faces the new challenges of our changing world. Only in that way will we genuinely move towards building a more fair and united world. My delegation listened with great interest to the inaugural address by the President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, in which he covered all the major issues of concern to today’s democratic societies. I would therefore like to congratulate him on his election and welcome the vision with which he would like to endow our common Organization. He can rest assured of our delegation’s readiness for full cooperation. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser of Qatar, for his efforts during the sixty-sixth session of the Assembly. That session’s very welcome results bear witness to the skill and effectiveness with which he led our work.﻿At the outset, I would like to express my sincere appreciation to Mr. Vuk Jeremić upon his election to serve as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. It is my firm belief that, with his extensive experience and constructive initiatives, he will guide the Assembly towards achieving its objectives while serving the common interests of all its members. May I also take this opportunity to extend my profound congratulations to Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, on the successful discharge of his duties. Likewise, I would like to commend Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon for tirelessly leading United Nations efforts to meet its obligations and achieve its objectives, as well as working to improve the overall working methods of the United Nations. Over the past two years, the international community has encountered complex challenges in all areas. Regional political complexity and unrest, especially in the Middle East, seem unlikely to be resolved any time soon. The use of violence in any form, as seen in attacks on diplomatic compounds in Syria, is unacceptable to us. In addition, the global economic and financial crisis affecting all parts of the world has reached an alarming point, causing great concern for all nations, and even for the European Union — a major economic force. Such crises have challenged the capacity and credibility of the existing global governance mechanisms designed by the international community to address global challenges. This is a clear indication that our joint efforts and actions have not yet produced tangible outcomes. Negotiations on climate change have shown no progress, although the Kyoto Protocol is expiring this year. Efforts to formulate an international instrument to govern arms trade and prevent illegal trading, which started some years ago, have also failed. There has also been little commitment on the part of the developed countries to help the most vulnerable groups of countries: the least developed countries (LDCs), the landlocked developing countries (LLDCs), and the small island developing States. In the light of the current situation, it is more crucial than ever to strengthen the United Nations, the only universal Organization, in order to increase its effectiveness in addressing important global issues. To that end, all Member States should strive to extend their full support and cooperation to revitalize the United Nations, finding a harmonious balance between national and international interests in order to address the enormous global challenges in a timely and effective manner. In the current context, regional organizations have played an increasingly important role in addressing the global issues. In that connection, more and more countries in the world now attach greater importance to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and the ever-expanding ASEAN-initiated cooperation frameworks. ASEAN is entering a crucial stage in implementing its leaders’ commitment to establishing an ASEAN community comprised of three pillars — a political-security community, an economic community and a social-cultural community — by 2015. I firmly believe that, by utilizing its own resources combined with external support, especially from its dialogue partners, ASEAN will be able to realize its ultimate goal of becoming a community that is politically stable, economically integrated and socially and culturally harmonious, thus contributing to the cause of peace and prosperity in the region and the world at large. As a member of the international community, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic has done its utmost to fulfil its international obligations by pursuing a policy of cooperation with other countries based on the principles of equality, mutual benefit, and respect for the principles of national independence, sovereignty and non-interference in each other’s internal affairs, thus building an international environment conducive to national development. Over the past year, despite numerous challenges, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic has continued to enjoy political stability and social order. There has been good progress in developing the national economy. That has laid a solid foundation for attaining the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015 and created conditions conducive to the country’s graduation from least developed country status by 2020. Despite those achievements, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic continues to face numerous challenges and constraints. In addition to problems resulting from the global and regional economic crises, natural calamities and the remnants of war, such as unexploded ordnance, continue to harm people’s lives and pose major obstacles to national social and economic development, including the attainment of the MDGs. In that regard, we call upon all countries to become party to the Convention on Cluster Munitions with a view to fully banning the use of such weapons. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic feels honoured to be entrusted with hosting the 9th Asia- Europe Summit Meeting, which will be held on 5 and 6 November in Vientiane, the capital of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic. That will provide a great opportunity for the leaders of Asia and Europe to discuss and exchange their views on global issues of mutual interest. The international community wishes to see the restoration of peace and stability in the Middle East. The conflict between Israel and Palestine will not be resolved without the full implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions supporting the establishment of two States, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic reaffirms its support for the membership of Palestine to the United Nations. The economic, financial and trade embargo imposed on the Republic of Cuba has long caused considerable hardship to the standard of living of the Cuban people. That embargo must be unconditionally and immediately lifted. Owing to their geographical locations, the landlocked developing countries are among the most vulnerable Members of the United Nations. The special challenges and major development obstacles they face are the result of their great distance from world markets and high transit transport costs, which impede their national sustainable development efforts. Each year, the landlocked countries bear a heavy financial burden in the effort to improve their transit transport infrastructure network in order to ensure that their export products, which constitute a crucial part of their national income, have better access to world markets. Those problems are compounded when their national economies are affected by financial or social crises, natural disasters and climate change, inter alia. In addition, 50 per cent of the LLDCs are also LDCs. I therefore urge the international community to devote greater attention and provide assistance to that vulnerable group of countries through full implementation of the Almaty Programme of Action, as well as to play an active part in the 10-year review of the implementation of the Almaty Programme of Action, to be held in 2014. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic reiterates once again its firm commitment and determination to continue working closely with the international community to build a peaceful world under a just and more democratic new order, based on cooperation with all countries in tackling the various global challenges facing us. I am convinced that only through firm determination will we be able to achieve the immediate and long-term development objectives and ensure that the world is secure, peaceful and prosperous.﻿I wish to join previous speakers in congratulating the new President of the General Assembly and in commending the President of the Assembly at its sixty-sixth session for his excellent leadership. Allow me also to convey my deep respect for the tireless efforts that His Excellency Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon has made as leader of the Secretariat and as a world statesman. Today our world continues to face numerous arduous challenges that require an urgent and collective response. Many of the gravest threats to the States members of the Assembly, including mine, the Federated States of Micronesia, are simply beyond the abilities of our individual countries to single-handedly address, even with our most aggressive and concentrated efforts. To speak before this body today is an honour and an opportunity that I must take to encourage international cooperation to help address those challenges. The biggest challenge we face today in Micronesia continues to be climate change, not just the projections of future loss and damage, but the dangerous impacts that my people are experiencing every day. Sadly, to date no significant progress has been made on climate-change mitigation. Time and again, I have asked, “How do I tell my people that their plight and their future lie in the hands of those most responsible for greenhouse gases?” From our point of view, we must step up our collective efforts to confront global climate change more urgently and more creatively. What is needed now is to close the ambition gap. I therefore call on the major emitters to step up their level of commitment under the Kyoto Protocol. Our very existence depends on it. Without international cooperation and assistance, we are helpless against the adverse impacts of climate change. Micronesia has barely contributed to the problem of climate change; it has, in fact, contributed to some of the solutions thereto. We actively participate in United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change negotiations and continue to advocate for significant cuts in greenhouse-gas emissions. We were therefore pleased with the agreement reached this summer in Rio to begin cooperation on a global phase-down in the production and consumption of hydrof luorocarbons (HFCs). Micronesia first proposed amending the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer in 2009. Today it remains the ideal venue for a phase-down of the production and consumption of HFCs, just as has been done with respect to similar gases that HFCs were invented to replace. To the rest of the world, the map may look fairly empty on our side of the globe, but to all of us it is as much a homeland as any continental land mass. We must treat it accordingly, and we must defend it just as strongly. And therein lies our second, closely related challenge: the change in our ocean environment. That change includes not only rising tides and temperatures and ocean acidification, but also the damage caused by harmful and destructive fishing practices, pollutants such as mercury and oil, and other waste resulting from unsustainable human activity. The abhorrent practice of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing continues unabated, and urgent actions to reduce by-catch, fish discards and post-harvest losses must be taken. For us, as a Pacific small island developing State, our livelihood, our economy, our culture and our way of living are tied to a blue economy. We have recognized that the conservation and sustainable use of the ocean and its resources are key elements in achieving sustainable development. We must fulfil our commitments made at Rio. My country welcomes the decision taken in Rio to hold a global conference on small island developing States in 2014. Micronesia fully supports that decision and reiterates its call to hold such a conference in one of the Pacific small island developing States. The rising cost of global energy continues to pose a serious challenge to our socioeconomic development and sustainability. Small island developing States such as Micronesia continue to rely heavily on imported fossil fuel despite the abundance of renewable energy sources. Our unique and particular vulnerabilities often translate into significantly higher costs for energy infrastructure and fossil fuels. As a consequence, our Governments spend a high percentage of our limited budgets on fossil-fuel procurement alone, often at the expense of the other sectors of our economies. To mitigate that situation, small island developing States adopted the Barbados Declaration on Achieving Sustainable Energy for All in Small Island Developing States, which has become an annex to the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, adopted last June. That is a concrete expression of the small islands’ own determination and ambition to promote renewable energy, energy efficiency, energy access and low- carbon development. However, our transition to renewable energy requires financing and new, appropriate and affordable technology. To that end, I must recognize and commend the bilateral assistance already provided in that area by the European Union, Japan, China, the United States, France, Italy and Turkey, as well as others that are also assisting through other multilateral arrangements. We urge other partners to join us to ensure sustainability. We also urge support for the Secretary-General’s initiative on “Sustainable Energy for All”. Our health-care system is increasingly under stress and facing constant challenges from the growing burden of non-communicable diseases, which has reached epidemic proportions in the Pacific. While we accept that the primary responsibility for health rests with our Government, we are seeking assistance from the international community in capacity-building, institutional strengthening and policy formulation. While we recognize the contributing effects of nutrition and lifestyle in that epidemic, we are also mindful of the fact that climate change has magnified the challenge as a result of the threat it poses to food security and the traditional lifestyle of Micronesians. The Federated States of Micronesia supports the greater participation of women in social, political and economic development. We look to development partners to enhance our investment in ensuring that the potential of women is nurtured and realized through quality education, health-care services and security measures against domestic and gender-based violence. It is only appropriate that measures to empower women to be true participants in nation-building should be locally driven. We have embarked on mainstreaming women’s views, interests and contributions into national development policies. We recognize and appreciate the assistance extended by the United Nations system and our development partners to support our national policies to enhance gender equality. Turning to our Organization, the single most urgent need is to reform the Security Council. Naturally, such an important step must not be taken in haste. However, after more than a decade of talking, we should be close to finding an acceptable formulation. Success on this issue will strengthen the Organization and stimulate and renew confidence in the Charter. My country subscribes to the principles of peace, security and prosperity, as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. We are horrified by the senseless killing of thousands of innocent civilians in Syria. Over the past two weeks, we have witnessed surges in violence. We join the international community in condemning violence, in particular the attacks on diplomatic missions, diplomats and personnel in Libya and Egypt. We must be bold in our actions to prevent such attacks. I call on Member States to continue their efforts to find peaceful solutions to these conflicts, especially the most challenging ones. The United Nations has the unique opportunity to address and solve the many challenges facing its weakest and most vulnerable States Members. The challenge lies in how the Organization and its most able Members can turn their many ambitious statements into mobilizing the required resources to successfully protect the citizens of the world. We in the Federated States of Micronesia, facing our troubled world, continue to place our faith in the United Nations as we look towards future. Our isolation amid the vast expanse of the Pacific Ocean no longer shields us from the threat of international terrorism. Globalization has long had a foothold on our island State. Facebook links us to the world. Allow me to end with a quote from my Constitution: “The seas bring together, they do not separate us .... We extend to all nations what we seek from each: peace, friendship, cooperation and love in our common humanity”.﻿The primary mission of the United Nations is to “save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which... has brought untold sorrow to mankind”. Those are the words of the Charter of the United Nations: the legacy of our predecessors. Our history tells us that conflict grows in the spaces where human rights are denied; that, where deprivation, inequality and injustice erode human dignity and potential, conflict is the consequence; that war follows hunger, and hunger follows war. That is why the Charter expresses in simple and clear terms our commitment to fundamental human rights. It reaffirms our “faith in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small”. Words can at times become too familiar, so familiar that their force and impact fade with time. We who gather here each year must remind ourselves what we stand for, reflect honestly on what we have achieved and what we have not achieved, and rededicate ourselves to the ideals set out in our Charter. We must make those lofty words relevant again to the peoples for whom we speak here. The struggle for human rights is being fought every day in every region of the world. There are too many forgotten places and forgotten causes. We must not turn away from the dark corners where the media spotlight does not shine or from which the media spotlight has long departed. We must speak here for the five-year- old child, without a family, struggling to survive in a refugee camp; for the hungry mother cradling a dying infant at a feeding station; for those who cannot speak publicly in their own lands and who look to us here for the vindication of their basic rights; for those who believe in the words of our Charter and expect us to act on them. What is happening in Syria is an affront to humanity. Syrian children, Syrian women and Syrian men, young and old, are being slaughtered by their own Government. A national army — the army of a sovereign State and Member of this Organization — is shelling its own people as they queue for bread, and is launching airstrikes on its own cities. We find compelling evidence of wholesale massacres in towns such as Houla, and we see Syrian children trying to make sense of their shattered lives in refugee camps in neighbouring countries. The violence is indiscriminate, and on an appalling scale. And it is not confined to one side. The people of Syria deserve the full support of the international community for the efforts to bring about an end to their suffering and to achieve an early political transition. Ireland backs the Joint Special Envoy of the United Nations and the League of Arab Nations, Lakhdar Brahimi, in his difficult task. The priority must be to achieve an immediate ceasefire and to get a political process under way that will facilitate the transition. What is needed, above all, is a strong Security Council resolution that will authorize targeted sanctions. It must include a comprehensive arms embargo against all those who are responsible for violating the human rights of the Syrian people. That is what the Syrian people want from us, and what they have a right to expect. There must also be full accountability for human rights abuses. To prevent further atrocities now and to save lives now, we must make it clear now that atrocities will not go unpunished. That is why Ireland supports the call by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and by Switzerland and others for the Security Council to refer the situation in Syria to the International Criminal Court. We are working to build up strong cross-regional support for such a referral. If the events in the Arab world over the past two years have taught us anything, it is that leaders who deny legitimate demands for greater political and economic freedom and who instead resort to waging war on their own people will inevitably lose the right to rule. The systematic denial of human rights and suppression of democratic liberties has fuelled a profound desire for change. In Tunisia, Egypt, Libya, Syria, Bahrain and elsewhere, Ireland has supported the will of the people, peacefully expressed, to bring about long-overdue democratic reforms. As world attention focuses on Syria, peace and justice remain elusive elsewhere in the Middle East. The need for a lasting resolution of the Arab-Israeli conflict is as urgent as ever. Yet a depressing stalemate persists, with no progress towards a comprehensive settlement. Ireland has said on many occasions that the establishment of a Palestinian State, within borders based on those of 1967, is long overdue. We have made clear our hope that Palestine will be formally admitted to the United Nations as a full Member. While that hope remains to be fulfilled, we welcome the announcement by President Abbas of his plans to consult with the membership of the General Assembly on a resolution that, as an interim step towards the achievement of that goal, would accord Palestine non-member State observer status. Ireland will be proud to support a fair and balanced resolution to that end, and we look forward to the forthcoming consultations. We know of course that such steps will not alter the situation on the ground. Israel must stop expanding settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem, which only impede the prospect of achieving Israel’s own stated desire for a Palestinian State. The peace and security of the people of Israel, to which they are entitled, gain nothing from denying the basic rights of the people of Gaza, who are subjected to an unjust and counterproductive blockade. There is no alternative to serious negotiations between the two sides aimed at a comprehensive settlement. I would like to see President Abbas and Prime Minister Netanyahu commit themselves to achieving a comprehensive peace agreement within a specified timescale. That will not be easy and will require painful compromises on both sides. But if both leaders are willing to embark on that path they will have the unstinting support of the entire international community, including Ireland. Peace and security are inextricably linked to development. And development is at the heart of Ireland’s foreign policy. We have maintained our official development assistance above 0.5 per cent of gross national product — an important achievement in the face of major economic difficulties — and we remain committed to reaching the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent as soon as we possibly can. Ireland’s aid programme represents a genuine investment by the Irish people in the world we share with the people of developing countries. We focus in particular on the countries of sub-Saharan Africa. We have prioritized investments in education, in health, in good governance, and in the lives and rights of girls and women and of persons living with HIV and AIDS. We have seen remarkable economic progress made in African countries as a result of such investments. But great inequalities still persist. It is in all our interests as global citizens to stay the course in relation to the Millennium Development Goals and to continue to work together for a sustainable and just world in which States operate on the basis of the rights of all people to participate in and contribute to society and inclusive economies. Against that background, the reality of hunger persists in our world. The scandal is that we have the tools to tackle that suffering and that terrible waste of human potential. How can people realize their rights and potential if they cannot meet their most basic needs for existence? No country knows that better than Somalia. Once, Somalia was at the centre of the world’s attention. But the media spotlight moved on, and the people of Somalia have faced a long struggle to emerge from war, famine and instability. Today, more than two million Somalis still need our help. On the last Sunday of July 2012, I visited Mogadishu. Amidst the grinding poverty and the misery of insecurity, I saw genuine signs of hope and opportunity. Schools, homes, shops and businesses are being rebuilt and reopened, and people are returning from exile. Increased international engagement has been essential. Real progress is also being achieved in Somalia’s transition to democracy, with impressive engagement by Somali traditional and political leaders. We must support them. I pledge today that Ireland will not turn away from Somalia or from humanitarian emergencies elsewhere in the Horn of Africa, the Sahel and across the globe. We will work with our partners to highlight forgotten crises and the needs of fragile States, as well as to forge a more coherent and effective international approach towards humanitarian action and development policy. Ireland has made the fight against hunger and undernourishment the key priority of its development policy. We have delivered on our commitment to direct 20 per cent of our aid budget to that priority. With our partners, we have worked closely with the Secretary- General to build and support the Scaling Up Nutrition movement. But we must do more. Collectively, we must act now to recognize the systemic linkages between recurring food price crises, humanitarian emergencies, chronic undernourishment and the effects of climate change. There is nothing that connects us more across borders, across oceans and across generations than our mutual dependence on the planet that we share. Climate change is not something happening in a far-off land or in a distant future. It is happening now and it is happening fast. It is not for another generation to solve. It is for us to take responsibility, to strive to achieve climate justice, and to act. A deep attachment to the safeguarding of human rights has been at the heart of Ireland’s foreign policy since the foundation of our State. Ireland’s commitment to the protection and promotion of human rights has been shaped by our own history. As a small island nation that has experienced the impact of colonialism, civil war and conflict, we learned the hard way that human rights can never be taken for granted. From the earliest days of our United Nations membership, we pioneered the promotion of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. We also paid close attention to decolonization and the struggle against apartheid. Today, we make substantial contributions to United Nations development agencies and funds and are active participants in United Nations peacekeeping operations. Thousands of Irishmen and Irishwomen have served in United Nations peacekeeping forces, and our people are intensely proud of that contribution to the ideals of the United Nations. Ireland also plays an active role in the work being done in the United Nations framework to protect and promote human rights. We are proud that our former President, Mary Robinson, served with distinction as United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights from 1997 to 2002. When the Human Rights Council was first established in 2006, Ireland declared that it would seek election to that body in 2012. That is the first occasion on which we have sought election to the Council. We are committed to a robust and effective Human Rights Council. We want to see a principled Council that provides real leadership in that critical area. We also value and support the full participation of small States in the work of the Council. The Universal Periodic Review process has opened up an important space for national dialogue on human rights. Ireland engaged constructively and self-critically in its own review. We are also firmly committed to a strengthened United Nations treaty monitoring body system and have actively contributed to efforts to reinforce that system. Threats to human rights worldwide are proliferating steadily, whether from widespread poverty and hunger, repressive systems of governance, religious intolerance, gender-based violence or other sources. If Ireland is elected to the Human Rights Council in November, we will serve the cause of international human rights protection as an active and committed member of the Council. The United Nations was founded on the principle that diplomatic engagement and dialogue between nations are essential to peace and human development. Attacks on diplomatic missions, such as we saw recently in Benghazi, are attacks on that principle. They are never acceptable and must be condemned by the international community. Ireland is currently chairing the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). That has enabled us to make a contribution to the search for agreement across the full range of the OSCE’s activities. We have drawn on our own experience in building peace in Northern Ireland to contribute to the work of the OSCE, which seeks to find peaceful settlements to protracted conflicts. I am hopeful that by the end of our term in office we will have been able to make progress in some key areas, including in the so-called human dimension of the OSCE and on some conflict issues. We have used our chairmanship to prioritize Internet freedom, reflecting the increasing importance of the Internet as a platform for the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms. A major conference in Dublin last June focused on how human rights and fundamental freedoms do not change with new technologies, but extend seamlessly into the digital age. We look forward to assuming the presidency of the European Union Council of Ministers in the first half of next year. We will bring to that role the same energy and commitment that we have devoted to discharging our OSCE responsibilities. A distinguished Irish politician and lawyer of the late eighteenth century, John Philpot Curran, once remarked that “the price of liberty is eternal vigilance”. If we are to live up to the aspirations of the Charter of the United Nations, we must also assume the burden of eternal vigilance. The daily challenges to human rights are painfully obvious. Our response must be clear and unrelenting. In the words of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, the promotion and protection of human rights is “the first responsibility” of Governments. We cannot and must not shy from that responsibility.﻿At the outset, allow me on behalf of the Chadian delevation to wholeheartedly thank the President for selecting the theme for the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. That subject is at the very heart of the principles that underlie the existence of our Organization, and reflects the global concerns of our day. Indeed, the world is in an period of unprecedented tension, perhaps even more serious than that following the Cold War. From Afghanistan to Mali; from Pakistan to Somalia; from Libya to Syria; and from the Israeli- Palestinian conflict to that of the Sudan and South Sudan, most of the crises that have recently shaken and continue to shake our planet, while undoubtedly rooted in political and social claims, also have considerable religious and cultural undertones that are often difficult to address. Africa is the crucible of all the scourges affecting the world. The war and attacks in Somalia, the situation in Mali, the crises in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and between the two Sudans, violence in Libya and outbreaks in Côte d’Ivoire and the Central African Republic are situations which many attempts to resolve have proved ineffective. Based on the principle that without peace and security development is not possible, the international community, embodied in the United Nations, has the firm obligation to contribute to establishing peace by making use of all the legal mechanisms at its disposal for settling conflict. The Organization has been particularly active in recent years in different theatres of conflict, such as Afghanistan, Darfur, Côte d’Ivoire, Libya and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Since its inception, the United Nations has never been so involved in different hotbeds of tension around the world. We commend that presence because of its calming and legitimizing effect on populations and even on protagonists. However, we also need to ponder the form and effectiveness of that presence. The stalemate in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the crisis in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, despite the massive and costly deployments of the forces mandated by the United Nations, clearly reflect the inability of the international community to impose peace where it is necessary. The crisis in Mali comes as a test and a challenge for the international community. Along with that crisis, obscurantist and violent religious fundamentalism, drug and human trafficking and irredentist claims have taken root in the very heart of Africa today. Can the world continue to stand by for much longer given that that gangrene, of which Mali is only the epicentre, threatens to spread throughout the entire Sahel? Our delegation commends the determination of the international community seen at the high- level meeting on the Sahel that was organized on the initiative of the Secretary-General. We commend the commitments of France, the Economic Community of West African States and above all those of the primary party concerned, namely, Mali, to act to eradicate that gangrene. The United Nations, too, needs to expedite procedures and act quickly by adopting a resolution that would authorize the intervention of an international military force. I would like to take advantage of my presence at this rostrum to warmly commend Mr. Omer Hassan A. Al-Bashir of the Sudan and Mr. Salva Kiir of South Sudan, who overcame their differences and reached a peace and security agreement, albeit partial. We sincerely hope that the agreement will quickly lead to a final understanding, which is so necessary to the progress of the countries and to the stability of the subregion. It is my pleasure to inform the Assembly that within the framework of subregional initiatives with respect to peace and security in the Sahel, the member countries of the Community of Sahelo-Saharan States (CEN-SAD) have undertaken a reform of our organization, which will incorporate peace and security dimensions into its updated texts. The President of the Republic of Chad, Mr. Idriss Deby Itno, has invited his colleagues from member countries to a summit meeting in N’Djamena on 29 November to adopt new texts aimed at refocusing CEN-SAD’s objectives on the specific concerns of the region. The ability of extremist groups to cause harm across borders calls for a collective and appropriate response. Our community, CEN-SAD, which includes almost all of the countries of the Sahel and the Saraha, seems to be the appropriate structure in which to bring together all our response strategies. Drawing on lessons from the difficulties experienced by the United Nations on the ground, Chad requested the departure in 2010 of the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad (MINURCAT). The Mission had been mandated to stabilize the region and protect Sudanese refugee camps in Darfur and those of internally displaced persons in eastern Chad. Despite a huge budget and considerable resources, that force did not prove to be an effective deterrent. It left the bulk of the work to the Détachement intégré de sécurité (DIS), a special national Chadian force made up 600 men and women. After MINURCAT’s departure, Chad decided to entrust DIS with the protection of refugees and displaced persons and any humanitarian organizations that provided assistance. A joint support programme for DIS was signed in February 2011 in order to mobilize the necessary logistical financial support to enable it to operate. The overall budget was estimated to be $20 million, about 2 per cent of the budget allocated to MINURCAT, which, I would remind the Assembly, amounted to some $800 million per year. That support has not yet been forthcoming, and Chad has been bearing the cost of the unit alone, estimated at about $4 million per year. I would also remind the Assembly that the responsibility of providing security to refugees, displaced persons and humanitarian organizations living in that region cannot and should not be left to Chad alone. The international community has the obligation to consider that issue and address it. That is why Chad is reiterating the special appeal it launched from this rostrum last year, requesting our Organization to take heed. Africa sorely needs international solidarity, not only to settle the conflicts and crises sweeping through it, but also for its development. In both cases, the results have been disappointing. The Millennium Development Goals, official development assistance and debt relief, in sum all of the commitments made in that regard, have either not been met or have been met only halfway. We would remind the Assembly that poverty, unemployment and, at times, despair are the scourges that push young Africans to extremism and to seek better prospects elsewhere. Africa needs assistance on a large scale, not in small doses, in order to help those young people and give them new confidence in their continent. This would not absolve the African States from shouldering their primary responsibility to create the right conditions for progress and prosperity. For its part, my country, Chad, under the leadership of President Idriss Deby Itno, is continuing the necessary political and economic reforms for its development and stability. We have just held the first municipal elections in our political history, and there were presidential and legislative elections in 2011. In addition, we are reviewing ways of establishing new arrangements for political dialogue with the democratic opposition, similar to those which enabled us to hold the latest elections in a calm and tranquil environment. For that reason, we are patiently working to consolidate the rule of law and strengthen the values of tolerance and democracy within Chadian society. That is a long and arduous process in a country that has just been through three decades of violence and political instability. With stability restored and socioeconomic progress achieved, Chad would like to make its modest contribution to building a world of justice and peace. For that reason, my country is for the first time a candidate for a non-permanent seat in the Security Council during the elections of October 2013. The efforts undertaken by my country have, however, been hampered by unexpected events: first, the crisis in Libya, which required us to strengthen security along the borders with that country, in addition to our efforts to secure our borders with the Sudan, the Central African Republic and the Lake Chad region that borders Nigeria and the Niger; secondly, the arrival of nearly 100,000 Chadians who had f led the war in Libya, the majority of whom were young people needing help with reintegration; and, thirdly, the current f loods, caused by exceptionally heavy rains. The Government’s appeal for help for the victims of the disaster has not yet received the expected response. Despite all those constraints and the sacrifices undertaken by Chad, we have not been able to benefit from the debt relief that comes with reaching the completion point. We therefore call on our bilateral and multilateral partners to take into account our unique situation and support us as we move forward. The theme of our session this year reminds us that all of the formulas that have been used to address the Israeli-Palestinian conflict have failed. As the crisis goes on and on, it is becoming accepted; yet, it is at the very root of the worst violence the world has seen in recent years. The community of nations cannot behave like an ostrich indefinitely, allowing a crisis as old as the United Nations itself to drag on interminably — a crisis which is a constant threat to peace and the regional and global balance. Here, too, old postures need to change and robust initiatives need to be taken to put an end to the conflict, which has gone on far too long. The international realities of our time should also strengthen our determination to bring about the reform of the Security Council. The primary innovation should be to expand its membership, with the admission of Africa as a permanent member with the right of veto. The world has greatly changed. We therefore need to adapt our global governance to these developments. In conclusion, the delegation of Chad, through me, would like to express how much we admire the newly elected President’s steering of the work of the General Assembly. We also would like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General for his personal commitment in the quest for peace worldwide. We firmly hope that his efforts will be successful and bring about more justice and serenity for humankind.﻿At the outset, allow me to greet Mr. Vuk Jeremić, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. At the same time, I would like to express my appreciation to Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for his stewardship during the previous session. I have the honour to represent Guatemala for the first time before this highest organ of the United Nations. Guatemala, and my Government in particular, will always support any initiative that furthers the noble objectives and principles of the United Nations, summarized in the words “peace”, “development” and “human rights”. My country is committed to the peaceful settlement of conflicts, which is the central theme of our debate. In that spirit, in late 2008 we agreed to sign a special agreement with our neighbour, Belize, seeking a resolution of a long-standing territorial dispute through the International Court of Justice. Our Congress unanimously approved the agreement, and on October 6, 2013, simultaneous plebiscites will be held in both countries to democratically ratify our commitment to resorting to the International Court of Justice. Furthermore, we Guatemalans lived through an armed conflict that lasted 36 years. I was a soldier who participated in that conflict. And because I know war, I highly value dialogue. That is why in 1996 I was one of the signatories of the peace accords in my country. That motivates me to reaffirm my support for the President’s wise decision to convene this session to discuss the peaceful settlement of conflicts. My Government has set three overarching objectives in order to advance firmly and sustainably towards a Guatemala that fully enjoys the benefits of peace. First, we have proposed the Hambre Zero initiative, which seeks to reduce the chronic malnutrition that affects over 40 per cent of our children below five years of age. That reduction will be sustainable only if we are able to better develop our rural areas in order to permanently reduce the poverty of families living off the land, particularly indigenous families. Secondly, my Government is promoting a pact for security, justice and peace, which seeks to reduce the social violence that afflicts our country. In taking office, I found a country with high levels of violence; as a result, reducing those levels has become a priority of my Government. We are certain that we can attain progress in that area, since the indicators over the past nine months alone already show a notable decrease of 13 per cent in the number of homicides compared to the same period last year. I can therefore state that, without being satisfied with those indices, we are nonetheless moving in the right direction in fulfilling our promise of reducing the levels of violence and increasing security in Guatemala in an environment of full respect for human rights. In this endeavour, we work closely with neighbouring countries, and especially with our Central American brothers. Thirdly, we are campaigning on the economic front through the Fiscal and Competitiveness Pact. Fiscal affairs have been one of the weaknesses of our institutional arrangement, and for this reason, during the very first days of my Government we successfully promoted a fiscal reform, approved by Congress, that increased our fiscal receipts by 15 per cent, allowing us to maintain a stable macroeconomic environment by reducing the fiscal deficit without having to reduce public expenditures. At the same time, fiscal stability is allowing us to stimulate private investments that generate employment opportunities; that is, dependable jobs, as demanded by our citizens. Unfortunately, our efforts in relation to the three challenges previously mentioned — lowering chronic malnutrition among children, reducing violence, and promoting employment — are nullified in part by the scourge of drug trafficking. At least 40 per cent of the homicides in our country are linked to the illicit drug traffic, and my Government is obligated to allocate scarce fiscal resources to combat transnational gangs that operate between the producing countries in the South and the consuming countries in the North. Moreover, my country has gradually been transformed into a producer and a consumer of drugs, thereby compounding an already difficult situation. The existing framework, born out of the international conventions adopted during the past five decades and currently in force, has not achieved the desired results. The consumption markets expand instead of decreasing; the number of producer countries and the type of drugs available tend to multiply; and the routes chosen for marketing and trafficking are trending towards diversification. The drug problem is growing in size and complexity. It involves an increasing number of countries and persons. Clearly, it is a transnational phenomenon, and it is for that reason that I raise it in this universal forum. It seems that the basic premise of our war against drugs has serious shortcomings since, unfortunately, it has not been possible to eradicate drug consumption. I believe that the time has come to accept this fact and to adapt our fight against the scourge in such a way as to take into account the new realities. Our youth, the group most affected by drug consumption, demands more effective responses from us. Let us realize that the problem is more a public health issue than a matter for criminal justice and deal with it accordingly. We must offer treatment, prevention, social protection, economic opportunities and development for the communities involved in the drug market. Let us not fill our jails with thousands of young people, who would have a different kind of life if we were to approach the problem in a different way. I invite the Member States assembled here to jointly seek avenues that will enable us to offer our young people a more promising future, improving their opportunities for a better life and at the same time reducing violence and poverty. Fifty years provides sufficient time for us to evaluate results, to gauge what we have achieved and to conclude why we do not have the results we had hoped for. In that regard, I also call on Member States to review the international regulations that currently govern our global policies regarding drugs. The Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961, as amended by the 1972 Protocol, the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971 and the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988 must be evaluated on the basis of its results and brought up to date to allow us to achieve the desired outcomes. That is a serious challenge that must be addressed in all earnestness so that we can have a respectful and frank multilateral dialogue, informed by clear scientific evidence regarding the best strategies available to ensure that our young people are protected from the scourge of drugs. In that regard, last April the Heads of State and Government of the Western Hemisphere met for the Summit of the Americas in Cartagena de Indias. Our host, Mr. Santos Calderón, President of Colombia, invited us to discuss new avenues to combat drug trafficking. The agreement reached was that we should undertake studies to assess new alternatives, which we would discuss next year, in June, at a meeting of the Organization of American States in Guatemala. That is a step in the right direction and one that we believe should be emulated at the global level. In the same spirit, Guatemala would like to propose the establishment of a group of countries that are well disposed to reforming global policies on drugs. The group would bring together Governments that are interested in promoting in appropriate international forums an objective and rigorous assessment of prevailing policies and inconsidering new, creative and innovative alternatives. We must seek such new avenues responsibly and tenaciously, and I am sure that with the cooperation of all producing, consuming and transit countries, we will succeed. Allow me to stress that it is not a matter of abandoning the fight against the scourge of drugs. Rather, it is a matter of arming ourselves better and responding with greater effectiveness and clarity, because our children and grandchildren deserve a more integrated and effective response from the international community. I would like to conclude my thoughts by reaffirming that Guatemala will not renege on any international commitments to which it is party. We have no desire for unilateral action, which would only sow chaos and conflict when the response should be a global one. We will wait patiently to change our policies in Guatemala until the international community moves forward and arrives at a new consensus. At the same time, however, I commit my leadership to moving forward on evaluating the global policy on drugs, so as to make it more effective and based on current international standards that reflect the challenges and realities of the twenty-first century. Before concluding, I would like to brief ly raise three points that I believe to be important to this meeting of the General Assembly. First, as a demonstration of our commitment to defending and promoting human rights on all fronts, on 14 January I said that Guatemala would seek to ratify the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and thus become a party to the Statute. I am pleased to report that, on 2 April, we deposited our instrument of ratification. Secondly, in that same speech, I indicated that we would make it a priority of our foreign policy to contribute to the ideals of democracy, justice and peace, within a framework of absolute respect for international law. In that regard, I indicated that Guatemala would fulfil its duties on the Security Council responsibly and in a constructive spirit. I believe that so far we have kept that promise, and we are pleased that in six days Guatemala will assume the presidency of the Council for the month of October, and we will continue to act responsibly. Thirdly, regarding the events of recent weeks, we reject all acts that defame religions. At the same time, we condemn violence in any form, including assaults on diplomatic missions. Such expressions of intolerance offend us all. Finally, I would like to recall that, on 21 December, Guatemala will celebrate the beginning of a new era according to the Mayan calendar. That era, 13 Baktun, marks the start of a very positive new age that will enable and invite us to renew physical and spiritual energies in an atmosphere of peace, cooperation and dialogue. All heads of State and Government are invited to join us in Tikal National Park to share in the dawn of this new era. The Mayans of yesterday and today, and all Guatemalans, await them with open arms.﻿At the opening of my statement in today’s general debate, allow me to express to Mr. Vuk Jeremić, President of the General Assembly, the satisfaction felt by the Republic of Paraguay at seeing him preside over the work of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. He can be assured of my delegation’s constant support during his time in office. Allow me also to congratulate Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for his important and effective work as President of the General Assembly at its previous session. I also extend my congratulations to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his commendable work during the past six years at the head of the Organization, during which he demonstrated his firm commitment to global peace and international security. In relation to the theme of the general debate, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, the Government of Paraguay once again asserts and confirms the importance of settling disputes by peaceful means while respecting the principles of international law. Relations between States would be fairer, more supportive and more equitable were they governed by full compliance with international law, the principles of which guide and direct the peaceful settlement of disputes. In my country’s view, favouring political expediency over treaty commitments is unacceptable, because political considerations can never take precedence over formal international agreements. On this first and last time that I will address the General Assembly, I believe it is necessary and unavoidable to elucidate to the international community the political process that my country is currently undergoing. The history of Paraguay changed on the night of 22 June. The National Congress, exercising its constitutional powers — and I would like to publicly express my appreciation for the presence here today of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Paraguay, senators and members of Parliament, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and persons of various political stripes — decided by near-unanimity to remove the then-President from office by means of an impeachment process established under the Constitution. The Paraguayan Congress sought in that manner to put an end to a very serious political crisis that threatened the country, in which 17 fellow countrymen had already lost their lives, and to avoid further bloodshed and grief on Paraguayan soil. As mandated by the Constitution and owing to my duty as Vice-President, I assumed office as President of the Republic. Since then, in accordance with my oath of office, I have been governing Paraguay peacefully and democratically, fully respecting public freedoms. The Government of Paraguay, along with the overwhelming majority of Paraguayans, takes pride in the fact that there are no political prisoners in the country, that nobody has been exiled, that freedom of the press and freedom of expression are fully guaranteed, and that each and every right enshrined in human rights agreements signed within the framework of the United Nations, as well as in the Organization of American States, is ensured. Paraguay has normal diplomatic relations with the great majority of the States Members of the United Nations. We guarantee to all of them that Paraguay will continue to work tirelessly in favour of peace and security, the basic pillars of our Organization. Nonetheless, Paraguay finds itself in a difficult international situation, one created by its neighbours, the members of the Southern Common Market and the Union of South American Nations. Both entities have adopted sanctions against the Republic of Paraguay without allowing it to exercise its right to defend itself, a right that is clearly set forth in the international agreements that are invoked for the application of sanctions. In violation of international treaties, those countries have attempted to become the custodians of Paraguayan democracy, putting aside the principle of non-intervention enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. Throughout its history, Paraguay has repeatedly suffered from arrogant interventions in its internal affairs. The holocaust brought on by the War of the Triple Alliance, stemming from an unjustifiable coalition, has still not faded from the memory of my people. It decimated my country’s population and destroyed its economy. In the short period that my Government has served, our critics have been unable to find a single violation of the agreements that I have mentioned. The great Justo Pastor Benítez, a famous Paraguayan politician, rightly maintained that it is dangerous to be right where there is no justice. Before humankind’s highest Assembly, I clearly state that Paraguay will never accept interference in its internal affairs by foreign Powers. We will continue to build our democracy in accordance with the will of the Paraguayan people, and fully implement it through our freely elected institutions. We are certain that we know how to get through this crucial period with dignity and integrity. We will not be subjugated. We call on members to reflect and work together to find the path towards rebuilding South American integration, which is currently compromised. Peace is built through dialogue, to which we are open. Those who today wish to become leading actors in the international community will have to acknowledge that that is not possible without regional unity. Leadership is built through respect for international law. That is the only way that we will have a common position on Security Council reform, which is a long- standing wish of the universal institution that embraces us. In such difficult times for the international community, we will find solutions to our current political and economic difficulties only by putting international institutions on the path for which they were established, namely, to serve the women and men that build humankind’s future day by day. Paraguay, a founding member of the Organization, remains committed to that. The various events in different parts of our planet this past year demonstrate the relevance and true validity of a forum such as the United Nations in the international arena. That is why there is an urgent need for the courageous, innovative and profound reform of its organs, structure and functions. Changes are needed to adapt the Organization so that it can respond with greater effectiveness and agility to an international agenda that is very different from that which existed when the United Nations was conceived. Moreover, it faces a shifting dynamic in the international picture that was impossible to envision at its inception. That is why Paraguay calls on the international community to strive towards the wonderful international utopia of a universal Organization governed by the strong and the weak, the large and the small, and the rich and the poor, all equal in a great world Assembly. Paraguay believes that it is necessary to insist that the reform process include the gradual elimination of the veto power. This year, on the twentieth anniversary of the historic United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 and known as the Earth Summit, we believe that it is necessary to reaffirm the belief that sustainable development and its economic, social and environmental aspects must be the linchpin of the United Nations focus. The Republic of Paraguay therefore reaffirms its belief in that goal and in the need to maintain the balance between economic development, social development and environmental protection as interdependent pillars of human development. As the world’s largest producer per capita of clean renewable hydroelectric energy, which drives our economy and its industrialization, we will use that energy for the country’s development for the benefit of the Paraguayans and foreigners who inhabit our land and shape its future. That energy, which we will use little by little, will be another driver of our well-being. The issue of landlocked developing countries (LLDCs) is an important aspect of Paraguay’s foreign policy. The asymmetry and disadvantages of our geographical position have caused and continue to cause a huge problem that can be offset only through international recognition and special and differentiated treatment on the part of the developed economies that seeks to include Paraguay in the globalized world. In that regard, on 12 September, during the recent fourth Meeting of Trade Ministers of Landlocked Developing Countries, a group that Paraguay had the honour of chairing during the biennium 2010-2011, the need for transit States, in the first place, and the international community, as a whole, to duly recognize the comparative disadvantages of our countries in relation to the conditions needed for their development was underscored. Paraguay wishes to reiterate here its commitment to international peace and security. In the specific context of United Nations peacekeeping operations, it affirms its political willingness to continue contributing human resources to such operations. Regionally, we highlight the progress achieved by the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH). Paraguay increased its deployment to MINUSTAH by more than 100 troops to show its firm commitment to the reconstruction of a brother country devastated by the scourges of nature. I would also like to underscore the effort and commitment of the Paraguayan military observers in the increasingly difficult situation in the Syrian Arab Republic, where they have remained, even in the most difficult circumstances. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to those soldiers who perform their duties, in many parts of the world, with dedication, hard work and sacrifice in the service of the United Nations. Today, we must all also remember the obligation of Member States to protect and defend the security of diplomatic and consular premises in all countries. Paraguay is increasingly concerned about the growth in transnational organized crime in its worst manifestations, namely, drug trafficking on a large and a small scale, arms trafficking and trafficking in migrants and in persons, among others. Those transnational crimes stem mainly the social and economic inequality of our peoples. Joint international efforts are needed, therefore, in order to fight such scourges head on. The Government of Paraguay reaffirms its unequivocal commitment to the fight against all activities of criminal organizations and calls for a stronger position on the part of developed countries, where most of the demand associated with those crimes originates. Paraguay also reaffirms its strong condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. For that reason, Paraguay, through its Secretariat for the Prevention of the Laundering of Money and Goods and in close cooperation with other national institutions, has made a coordinated effort to bring its legal and normative framework in line with its commitments and with the recommendations made by the international organizations charged with preventing and prosecuting crimes related to money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Laws and resolutions have been passed pursuant to the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF). In February 2012, Paraguay was removed from the FATF grey list and is now, as a result of our efforts, included on the white list, a fact that we are proud of, as a member of our region and in line with our commitment to the fight against money-laundering and the financing of terrorism. Promoting and building awareness of, and full respect for, human rights worldwide must continue to be one of the unchanging and incontrovertible commitments on our Organization’s international agenda. Human rights violations are a scourge that must forever be eradicated from our civilization. The Government of Paraguay reiterates that the growth of nations can be achieved only through social equality, by prioritizing basic needs such as education, health and land reform. Growth without social development will only result in a world that is more unequal and unjust. The Paraguayan Government is actively working to build a development model that gives priority to decent work. In that regard we are promoting mechanisms within the framework of a State policy aimed at improving working conditions. They include, first, the creation of a Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security; secondly, the ratification of the Domestic Workers Convention No.189 of the International Labour Organization, adopted in 2011 by the International Labour Conference in order to improve the working conditions of thousands of domestic workers in Paraguay; and thirdly, the implementation of an employment policy for young people through a bill aimed at enabling young people to enter the workforce, which has been partially approved by the National Congress. Since its beginning, my Government has maintained its belief in and commitment to making inexorable progress towards equal opportunities and rights for all of Paraguay’s inhabitants. In that regard, we have never faltered in the constant struggle for full social, economic, political and cultural rights for women. As evidence of those firm beliefs, soon after assuming its duties, my Government decided to upgrade the Secretariat for Women’s Issues to an executive ministry, in accordance with United Nations recommendations. Finally, in that respect, I must mention our satisfaction with, and full commitment to, Paraguay’s election for a new term as member of the Commission on the Status of Women for 2013-2017. The Government of Paraguay, which I have proudly led since the end of June, now has a historic democratic obligation to organize the general elections scheduled for 21 April 2013 and to guarantee that they are peaceful, transparent and exemplary. When the next President takes office, on 15 August 2013, the soundness of Paraguayan democracy will be confirmed. At that time I will look into the eyes of my countrymen and those of foreigners who live in our country and shape our future alongside us and will be able to say: mission accomplished. I ask God and the Virgin to help us and to bless us so that all Paraguayans together can move towards the future that we want.﻿On behalf of the delegation of the Kingdom of Thailand, allow me to congratulate the President of the General Assembly upon his election to preside over the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I would also like to convey our appreciation to the outgoing President, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for his outstanding leadership of the General Assembly during the previous session. We continue to live in challenging times. Much still needs to be done to restore stability and confidence in the global financial and economic system, and to find long-term solutions to the eurozone crisis. The Arab Spring has taught us that it is very important to listen to the voice of the people. The risk of conflict in various regions around the globe may affect our efforts to promote peace, prosperity and democracy. We have also seen how religious insensitivity and hate can lead to violence. In the light of this, we need to promote a culture of tolerance, mutual respect and understanding, both in and among societies. These are essential factors to prevent conflict and promote lasting peace. In our efforts to promote lasting peace and security, we are confronted with a wide range of threats, both old and new. It is therefore necessary for us to seek innovative solutions and new thinking. We need strong leadership, political will and good global governance. It is imperative that we settle international disputes by peaceful means. But even beyond that, we need to think in terms of preventive and preemptive actions to prevent such disputes from arising in the first place. Most important, we have to think in terms of promoting inclusive and comprehensive peace and development, both within and among countries. Peace, security and development are all interconnected. Economic development must go hand in hand with political advancement. Here, I would like to emphasize three points. First, an inclusive national development strategy is vital. During this period of economic uncertainty, we must not consider economic growth alone. It is important to put people front and centre in the development agenda. Sustainable growth and development, job creation, promoting poverty reduction and equality and addressing climate change must go hand in hand. That is what every Government should do — put people at the heart of the country’s economic development strategy — because we believe that the greatest asset of any country is the people, and how much a country can excel depends on how much its people can fully realize their potential. Secondly, an inclusive regional development is the way forward and would help strengthen the fabric of regional peace and security. Thailand strongly believes that we and our neighbours in the region have a shared objective. We have a shared interest in fostering common peace and prosperity. We need to therefore strive to prosper together because only by working together can we create a much-needed synergy that would support our common development. That will also help limit the chance of conflict. In South-East Asia, that is the spirit that drives the 10 States members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to establish an ASEAN Community by the year 2015. As ASEAN moves towards greater integration, great efforts are being made to close development gaps and expand connectivity across South-East Asia and beyond to the wider East Asia and South Asia. That would help spread development and growth more broadly across the continent. And as economic activities become more concentrated in East Asia, that closer integration and expanded connectivity, together with an expanding region-wide network of free trade agreements, will further strengthen the resilience of East Asia, create greater opportunities and unleash the full potential of this promising region. Thirdly, an inclusive process at the global level is crucial as the international community considers the post-2015 development agenda. The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) have been an important tool that resulted in better livelihoods for millions of people. With 2015 fast approaching, the international community should mobilize an all-out effort to make the final push in realizing those MDGs. At the same time, it is important to prepare beyond 2015. The successes and failures of the implementation of the MDGs should be taken into account as the international community starts to frame the post-2015 development agenda or the sustainable development goals. The process towards that end should be as inclusive as possible to ensure that the post-2015 development agenda will enjoy the broadest possible support and ownership of the international community. Thailand will play an active and constructive role in that process because development is an issue close to our heart. In this age of globalization, the concept of absolute security has become obsolete. Peace can never be achieved in isolation. We can only seek peace through common security and stability. We must work closely with our friends in each region to strengthen their capacities in meeting their development goals. We believe that the peace and prosperity of our neighbours is that of our own. That is particularly relevant in the current case of Myanmar during the critical period of transition towards greater democracy, which Thailand fully supports. We must all work together as partners to help Myanmar continue in its process of change. We will all benefit from that economic cooperation and integration. We live in a world of increasing interconnectivity, but our peoples continue to face insecurity from cross- border challenges. In this age of globalization, the concept of security must be people-centred. Therefore, transnational challenges — from people smuggling to human trafficking, from narcotics to pandemics, from natural disasters to illegal trade in arms and materials for weapons of mass destruction — must rank high on our national agenda. The international community should redouble its collective effort to act forcefully against transnational crimes that exist in a world of increased interconnectivity. One of the worst forms of human indignity is human trafficking. I consider that inhumane form of exploitation to be a matter of national priority and am fully committed to eliminating it.. Whether it is human trafficking or other transnational crimes, the key is to ensure that the rule of law prevails and the basic rights of peoples are guaranteed. Vulnerable groups, such as women, children, the elderly and people with disabilities, in particular deserve our attention. Solutions to those challenges cannot be achieved by Governments alone. We need to work with all stakeholders, especially in strengthening international norms and standards. Through the United Nations, we need to promote the rule of law as a solid foundation to achieve peace, international security, human rights and sustainable development. We are committed to promoting peace and prosperity within countries and internationally, but, ultimately, the process must begin at home. It can best be accomplished by providing space for all within a democratic framework and promoting national reconciliation. Above all else, we must think in terms of partnership and work together as responsible members of the international community. Working through the United Nations, we need to reach out to people who have been denied their legitimate rights and aspirations. It is in that spirit that the Royal Thai Government established diplomatic relations with the State of Palestine on 1 August 2012, in the hope that both Israel and Palestine can achieve true and lasting peace based on a two-State solution. Elsewhere in the Middle East, the situation in Syria continues to worsen. Thailand is deeply concerned about the humanitarian impact of violence against civilians and strongly condemns such violence. We call for an immediate end to the use of force against civilians. We call for all sides to engage in dialogue towards a political solution, which can be achieved only by the efforts of the Syrian people themselves. In the quest for peace and security, we believe it is necessary to continually look beyond our borders. Thailand wishes to reaffirm our commitment to peacekeeping in difficult times as necessary. From Timor-Leste to Haiti to Darfur and in the Gulf of Aden, Thailand’s peacekeeping operations also assist in local and community development, sharing our best practices in agriculture, health and water resource management. In sum, Thailand has continued to engage with the international community across all three pillars of the United Nations: peace and security, development and human rights. The management of those interconnected issues will provide us with long-term solutions, not only for conflict resolution via peaceful means, but also for ways to prevent conflicts from arising altogether. I assure the Assembly that Thailand will continue to be a strong partner of the United Nations in helping to address those shared challenges of humankind. It is with that conviction that we have submitted our candidature as a non-permanent member of the Security Council for the term 2017-2018.﻿On behalf of the Prime Minister and the people of Fiji, I congratulate the President on his election and have full confidence in his guidance of the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I wish also to pay tribute to the tireless efforts of his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, through what has been an eventful and turbulent year for the global community of nations. The world is facing many challenges that demand our attention and collective action. As we all gathered last June in Rio de Janeiro for the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, millions of people were recovering from, or living through, natural disasters. In Fiji, we experienced our worst f looding on record during the months of January and April. Beyond the human cost, the economic damage to infrastructure, schools, businesses, agriculture and tourism — a sector that generates 33 per cent of Fiji’s gross domestic product — was immense, and we still have not fully recovered. Our f loods were by no means the world’s worst climatic disaster of the year; other peoples suffered much worse. But as a people who live on a group of small islands in the South Pacific, we feel particularly vulnerable. The ongoing failure of the international community to seriously address climate change means that we will all see more frequent and more intense weather events. Those will erode our development gains and leave our people feeling poorer and less secure, so it is clear that it is indispensable to incorporate disaster risk reduction into global and national development strategies. The post-2015 development agenda is now under discussion, and frameworks and modalities are being developed. However, our job with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) is not complete. As a global community of nations that has committed to those goals, we must give meaningful support to all those States lagging in their progress. We must also ensure that a post-2015 development agenda does not simply delay the target date for the MDG indicators and goals. The development community can do much more, including meeting our agreed objectives for development funding. Fiji has embarked on a comprehensive reform programme not only to promote development, but also to improve the lives of our people. We have embraced the Millennium Development Goals as they were intended — to provide specific objective standards for improving the lives of our people. We are the second country in the world to introduce the pneumococcal and rotavirus immunizations as standard, with a view to minimizing child mortality. That represents progress towards meeting MDGs 4 and 5. But the reward is not in meeting the goals; the reward is in children who are healthier, families that are less burdened, and generations given a better chance to become productive adults. We must never forget that behind each of those Millennium Development Goals are human beings — the citizens of our nations — who look to us to provide opportunities for a fuller life. We still have work to do particularly in meeting MDGs 1, 3 and 6, and we are working on those as best we can. The particular case of small island developing States in meeting those goals and their specific challenges will be addressed by the third Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, to be held in the Pacific region in 2014. The success of the Conference will be measured in actions, not simply in more words. Substantive preparations for the Conference must therefore be oriented towards taking action and achieving specific goals. In addition to support for regional development, Fiji is also taking the lead in the region on broadband connectivity. It is clear to us that broadband is an essential technology for improving education, medicine, agriculture and environmental services. Broadband technology is especially important to us because it will help unite a dispersed people and help draw us closer to our island neighbours in the Pacific. If we take care to make it accessible, affordable and understandable, we will bring an entire universe of wisdom and understanding to the smallest schools and remotest villages. Information need no longer be the property mostly of people who live in the cities or who are attached to large institutions. Like all islands nations, Fiji relies on the ocean and its resources as our economic lifeblood and source of sustainable development. While fish and other living marine resources have been vital to Fiji’s economy and livelihood, we believe that our efforts to explore deep-sea mineral resources have greater potential, provided that a precautionary approach with regard to environmental sustainability is ensured. The theme selected by the President for this year’s general debate, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, is most relevant in these times of turbulence across the world. The United Nations must continue to be at the vanguard of international peace and security. It must be able to respond to new types of crises, always with an aim to stabilize the places it enters and leave behind not just a state of peace and stability, but also an environment that fosters freedom and opportunity for the people. In that context, Fiji continues to play a role in peacekeeping missions around the world that is far beyond what is expected of a country of our size and level of development. We contribute troops and police personnel to operations in Iraq, Liberia, South Sudan, Darfur and Timor-Leste. Fiji has responded to exigent requests by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, above and beyond agreed contributions, to ensure that peacekeeping operations in Iraq can continue unhindered, despite the additional burden it has placed on our troops operating far from home and for longer than envisaged. We believe that all nations must find ways to make the world safer, more humane and more livable, and as a people we are proud that we can make that contribution to global peace and security and to the lives of citizens far away from us. That is not just Government policy; it is a calling that is deeply embraced by the Fijian people. Recognizing the role that peacekeeping missions with expanded mandates play in helping to build the foundations of a sustainable future, Fiji has in the past year also started to contribute in a small yet meaningful way to the corrections and justice sector of peacekeeping missions. Mentoring and strengthening corrections and justice institutions is part of the process of allowing post-conflict societies to take control of their own destinies, and Fiji is pleased to be able to be a part of those unfolding stories around the world. Fiji has been honoured to be a part of that process in our own region through our contributions in Timor- Leste via the United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste (UNMIT). Following the successful elections in Timor-Leste early this year, UNMIT will be in a position to wind down its operations later this year, allowing the Timorese people to take full ownership and control of their own destinies. Timor-Leste is now an observer to the regional organization of which Fiji is the current Chair, the Melanesian Spearhead Group, and we trust that through that organization and the United Nations we will have many years of collaboration ahead. In the spirit of supporting self-determination, Fiji continues to work through the Decolonization Committee of the United Nations to ensure that New Caledonia’s right to self-determination, as expressed in the Noumea Accord, is implemented faithfully by all parties. Fiji works through the Melanesian Spearhead Group in monitoring the progress of implementation of the Noumea Accord. Additionally, at the Engaging with the Pacific Meetings held in Fiji in 2011 and 2012, Pacific island leaders committed to supporting the inalienable right of the people of Ma’ohi Nui/French Polynesia to self-determination. We look forward to working through the United Nations processes and with all relevant partners in order to have the question of Ma’ohi Nui’s self-determination placed on the United Nations agenda again. Fiji is itself working through a period of reform and transition. We are building a sustainable democracy founded on the principle of “one person, one vote, one value”. Elections will be held under a new constitution and electoral system no later than September 2014. Those elections will see the citizens of Fiji go to the polls without regard to their race for the first time in our nation’s history. Fiji’s new constitution will be based on some unassailable democratic principles: a secular State that recognizes our multi-faith society; a common national identity in which all citizens, not just indigenous people, will call themselves Fijians for the first time; a war against corruption, which inhibits the country’s development; an independent judiciary to uphold the rights of every Fijian; social justice and the elimination of all forms of discrimination, so that every Fijian is treated equally; good and transparent governance; and lowering the voting age to 18 to give our young people a voice. We set up an independent Constitutional Commission in March to draft a new constitution guided by those principles. It will be a constitution of and for the people. Ordinary Fijians are seizing the opportunity to put forward their views at public hearings throughout the country and to voice the issues that are most important to them. The Commission’s recommendations will be reviewed by a Constituent Assembly in early 2013. This body, made up of a broad cross-section of Fijian society, will formulate the final document through public discussion and debate. That will set the scene for elections in 2014, for which preparations have already begun. Through a process of electronic registration carried out in July and August of this year, almost half a million Fijians have so far registered to vote. Throughout this process, we have stayed true to the principle that we in Fiji must determine our own destiny, one that is inclusive and fair to all citizens. We are taking the time necessary to get it right. We have endured criticism and a degree of isolation at the hands of some of our traditional friends among the world’s democracies. By now, those countries have begun to recognize that we are serious about building a sustainable democracy that is racially blind, that offers equal opportunity, and that protects all citizens from the tyranny of the majority. We need the support of the world’s democracies, and we invite them to work with us in our quest to establish the kind of democratic system that they enjoy. After 40 years of strife and instability, the work of true and sustainable democracy is just beginning, and we ask the international community to support us. We have examined and redefined our world view to help forge productive, friendly relationships with all nations of goodwill. In 2011, Fiji opened three new embassies in Brazil, Indonesia and South Africa. We have expanded our diplomatic presence this year by opening embassies in the Republic of Korea and the United Arab Emirates. We want to learn more, to exchange more, to develop more, to trade more, and certainly to contribute more through active and robust engagement with other nations. In the United Nations, Fiji pledges to work in the most constructive manner possible, and to respect the ideals of the United Nations Charter. That includes the International Labour Organization (ILO), with which we are engaged at the present moment. The Fijian Government’s commitment to a future of equality and opportunity for all Fijians includes ensuring that the rights of working people are protected and extended. The Constitutional Commission has received submissions from all sectors of Fijian society, including trade unions and public employees. We expect the new constitution to help us continue to build an environment that promotes safe working conditions, protects workers from arbitrary actions, and allows workers to form unions. We seek to ensure that unions can take collective action, as directed by their member workers, and are subject only to restrictions that are generally accepted as protecting the public good. We also seek to protect the rights of those workers who choose not to affiliate with unions. The Fijian Government is committed to protecting workers who are fortunate enough to have jobs and to ensuring that all workers receive fair wages. We are equally committed to creating employment opportunities for the young and less aff luent. As part of Fiji’s progress in reform towards democracy, we are reviewing our current labour laws to ensure their compliance with the 34 ILO conventions that Fiji has ratified. The tripartite Employment Relations Advisory Board is a key participant in this process. This year alone, Fiji has ratified or adopted eight ILO instruments, as recommended by the tripartite Board, including the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention. By empowering Fijians, the Government is seeking to ensure that all citizens, regardless of ethnic background, are on a level playing field and in possession of the tools needed to compete with their peers in the global community, improve their livelihoods and fulfil their dreams. By modernizing Fiji, the Government is seeking to make the country and its institutions and legal system strong, independent and world-class. Fiji may be a relatively small country, but it has big aspirations. They include being a good global citizen, a leader by example among island nations, and an actively engaged member of the international community. In the spirit of constructive contribution to the global community and the United Nations, I am pleased to say that at today’s ministerial meeting of the Group of 77 and China, Fiji was endorsed as the Chair of the Group for the year 2013. Fiji takes on this responsibility with a deep sense of humility, a willingness to work collaboratively with all States, and a commitment to addressing the inequalities that exist between developing and developed countries. As we look forward to a productive sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly, we reiterate our full support for and cooperation with the President and all Members, with a view to advancing the objectives of this body and the aspirations of the global community.﻿I warmly congratulate the President on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. His election demonstrates the esteem in which he and his country, Serbia, are held on the international scene. I can assure him that he has the support of my country, Gabon. I also commend the outstanding work done by his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, during his presidency of the Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. And I would like to reiterate our confidence in the efforts that Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon is undertaking as the head of the Organization. Our world more than ever needs a dialogue of civilizations and cultures. In order to build a more peaceful world, it needs more tolerance, more understanding and more respect among peoples. During this session, we are called upon to redefine the outlines for better management of global challenges. I would like to welcome the theme chosen by the President for this session, namely, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, which will remain at the heart of our common efforts and is indeed an ongoing quest. The debate we held yesterday on the rule of law at the national and international levels was also a discussion of the conditions for peace in our countries and around the world. By maintaining our focus on that goal and working together, we can better tackle the challenges of an international context that is still marked by multifaceted crises, illustrated by many hotbeds of tension around the world. That is shown by the situations in the Middle East and Africa, which are still of concern to us. The Syrian crisis, which arose as an extension of the Arab Spring last year, is having a destabilizing impact on several countries of the Middle East region. We hope that the efforts undertaken by the Joint Special Representative, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, will help put a stop to confrontation and will open up a dialogue. With respect to the situation in Mali, we condemn the attempts to divide the country and the destruction of the World Heritage sites in Timbuktu. Gabon supports the efforts of the new transitional Government, the Economic Community of West African States and the African Union to try to re-establish territorial integrity. I urge the Security Council and Member States to support the United Nations integral regional strategy on the Sahel, which addresses issues of security, governance, development, human rights and humanitarian concerns. When we served on the Security Council, we joined other members in responding to the appeals of the Libyan people. The situation there is still dire, and we encourage the United Nations to continue to work to promote political stability and reconstruction efforts. We reiterate our condemnation of the attack on the United States Consulate in Benghazi. With regard to the ongoing tensions in the eastern part of our brother country the Democratic Republic of the Congo, our collective support for the Congolese State must be maintained in security, political and humanitarian matters. I welcome the progress made in Somalia with the adoption of its provisional Constitution and the election of the new President, Hassan Sheikh Mohamud, whom I congratulate and commend. Gabon will continue to help Somalia, as it did last year with humanitarian contributions. I commend United Nations and African Union involvement in Somalia. Thanks to the African Union Mission in Somalia and to Government forces, security is improving even far outside Mogadishu. I have the highest praise for the country, whose troops pay a heavy price on the ground. I honour the memory of the first Prime Minister of Ethiopia, Meles Zenawi, who passed away on 22 August. All of us know of his work for peace in Somalia and the Sudan, his commendable tenures as Chair of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development Heads of State and Government Orientation Committee and his focus on climate change. It goes without saying that the crises and conflicts that continue to ravage the world constitute a profound betrayal of the cry-from-the-heart aspirations of all peoples for peace and security, justice, development and the equal sovereignty of States. Those cries come from the people of Palestine and Cuba, who long for a better future. One wants recognition of a State living in peace and security with its neighbours, within secure, internationally recognized borders, while the other wants an end to the economic, commercial and financial embargo it suffers under. The General Assembly has many times spoken out on the side of those two peoples’ aspirations, through numerous resolutions, which my country has unequivocally supported. To fulfil the aspirations of all peoples, we need global governance that is more balanced, more democratic, better structured and based on the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. Such governance must be founded on the primacy of international law and respect for the sovereignty of States in their quest for democracy and development. Throughout the coming sixty-seventh session we will focus on certain priority issues, starting with various reforms of the Organization, especially the revitalization of the General Assembly, to make it better able to play its part given the changes and current realities in the world. We must strengthen the Assembly’s role as an active force and as the premier forum for global democracy. Likewise, in its commitment to Security Council reform, Gabon continues to support permanent and equitable representation for Africa. As we did during our recent tenure on the Council, we will continue our focus on mediation, prevention and the peaceful resolution of disputes and conflicts. We believe action must be taken before disputes escalate into armed conflict, sparing the heavy expense of peacekeeping operations. But current realities force us to focus also on new, cross-cutting threats to peace and security, including trafficking in small arms and light weapons and maritime piracy, which is ravaging the Gulf of Guinea. That is why we are working along with other countries in Central Africa to put in place confidence-building measures, including the early warning mechanism for Central Africa. We greatly appreciate the support offered by the United Nations Regional Office for Central Africa, which my country hosts, in promoting peace. During my tenure as Acting Chairman of the Economic Community of West African States, I will emphasize regional integration as a means to common economic development and strengthening peaceful connections among member States. We know that the conflicts shaking the world have numerous and complex causes. Any lasting settlement of those crises requires an approach that combines support for institution-building and governance in the affected countries with initiatives to revitalize their economies. Gabon will therefore follow with great interest the issue of an increased role for the Economic and Social Council. Many countries remain concerned with economic conditions. We must therefore rethink our approaches to sustainable development initiatives. We must reflect clearly on the post-2015 development agenda, especially on how to coordinate the Millennium Development Goals and the sustainable development goals enunciated in the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) (resolution 66/288). It is also crucial to break the impasse in the World Trade Organization by rethinking the basis for negotiations. We will thereby be better able to promote the tripartite model of aid together with investment and trade towards sustainable development. During last year’s session I referred to work in progress in my country towards the goal we set for ourselves to become an emerging country by 2025. Since then that initiative has begun to produce results in the creation of strategic infrastructures, strengthening the rule of law and social, political and economic reforms. We continue to take steps to diversify our economy through local promotion of the natural resources we export, which encourages wealth creation and employment. Those efforts must be based on sustainable management of our forests and their biodiversity, which plays an important role in the global environment. In that vein we are fighting poaching and the illegal trafficking in protected species. I am also pleased at the adoption, on 21 June, of the outcome of the Rio+20 Conference, which reflects the international community’s recognition of the need to work together to promote sustainable development through the joint efforts of individuals, Governments, civil society and the private sector. Along those lines I have instructed my Government to rethink our country’s institutional framework for sustainable development, with an eye to enacting legislation on the subject. Gabon is also pursuing the opportunities offered by a green economy in eradicating poverty. We are also continuing to develop our human resources, our financial services capabilities, new information technologies and ecotourism. Given current economic challenges, I recently instituted measures to improve the daily lives of my fellow citizens by tackling the cost of living — for instance, by suspending customs duties and the value added-tax on several basic items and building materials. In the social arena, we have put in place a national system of health coverage for all strata of Gabonese society. That coverage, which is part of our fight against HIV/AIDS, includes free antiretrovirals and prenatal and maternal care for all infected pregnant women. At the political level, we have introduced biometrics to improve the organization of the next elections. We continue our efforts to talk with all leading players in the nation, in particular through the National Council for Democracy. Together, those actions strengthen the climate of peace bequeathed to us by my illustrious predecessor, thereby creating an environment conducive to the well- being of citizens and to the security of investments needed for the development of the country. We are therefore ready to welcome diversified and mutually beneficial partnerships and look forward to doing so. Our countries and the international community as a whole must today overcome considerable challenges. Our efforts can fulfil the aspirations of our peoples only if we cooperate to achieve global governance based on respect for the rule of law, dialogue among peoples, conflict prevention, protection of the environment and biodiversity. Our ultimate goal must be, above all, the well-being of our peoples. It is in that spirit that my country will continue to make its contribution both in our Organization and in our common work for peace, security, development and prosperity for all.﻿To begin with, I offer my deep congratulations to Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly to steer its work at its sixty-seventh session. We trust in his capacity to ably manage the affairs of the Assembly during this session. I would like also to thank Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of the General Assembly at its previous session, for all of his efforts. We also commend Mr. Ban Ki-moon for his wise management of the affairs of the United Nations and his interest in the developments in my country. During the past few weeks the Islamic world has experienced a wave of outrage and anger as the result of a film containing explicit denigrations directed at the Muslim Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, and the values of true Islam. It is deplorable that a campaign exists with the aim of deliberately insulting Islam and Muslims in order to distort their image worldwide and to sow seeds of hatred between nations and religions. Yet given all of that, such behaviour has attracted people who defend the film based on the justification of freedom of expression. Those people, however, must not overlook the fact that there should be limits on the freedom of expression, especially if such freedom is used to blaspheme the beliefs of nations and defame their religious figures and symbols. While my country has strongly denounced the film, it has also called for respect for religions and religious figures, enhanced understanding and dialogue between religions and civilizations, and the adoption of international instruments to prevent any further similar practice or abuse of the right to freedom of expression. My country also calls for adherence to peaceful expressions of opinion, while denouncing violence and incitement to hatred that contradict the values of true Islam. The current session of the Assembly is being held within the context of important global developments and events that are directly affecting political, economic, social, security and environmental situations in all nations of the world. Those circumstances have resulted in various pressures on all international actors and have destructively impacted the least developed countries — the so-called the countries of the South — including my country, the Republic of Yemen. These days we are celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the 26 September 1962 Revolution and the forty-ninth anniversary of the 14 October 1963 Revolution. I therefore take the opportunity to extend, from this international rostrum, my warmest greetings and best wishes to the great people of Yemen on this occasion. No doubt, the 50 years since the Yemeni revolution have contributed to sparking the Yemeni people’s aspirations for change and for freedom, equality and national dignity that resulted in a new reality where the wheel of change continues to turn, despite all difficulties obstacles and barriers. Recently, we experienced the historic achievement of a peaceful transfer of power for the first time in the country. That transition would not have been possible without the Yemeni people’s determination to fulfil the goals of the revolution: freedom, sovereignty, an end to autocratic and family rule forever, and the establishment of a republican regime governed by the Constitution under a new social contract between the State and its people. All Members know that Yemen is one of the so- called Arab Spring countries. We Yemenis experienced a difficult situation for over a year that could have led to catastrophe. However, the country avoided that trajectory because the disputing parties were wise enough to follow a role model designed to reach an agreement. Thus, they accepted the political settlement under the initiative of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) and its implementation mechanism, which had become the accepted reference for all parties and enjoyed international support. Early presidential elections were conducted representing a public referendum for change. The referendum granted the new authorities full legitimacy to pursue the implementation of the provisions of the GCC initiative with a view to steering the country towards the safe side and a brighter future where people have faith in their future and can freely and with conviction choose their rulers and thus contribute to building the new Yemen. In that respect, please allow me to express my gratitude and appreciation to the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud of Saudi Arabia, the leaders of the GCC countries and the Secretary General of the GCC, Mr. Abdellatif Zayani, for all of the various forms of attention and support they have extended towards the political settlement of the crisis. Thanks also go to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon; the five permanent members of the Security Council; Mr. Jamal Benomar, Special Adviser of the Secretary- General on Yemen; the League of Arab States and its Secretary General; and the European Union for all of their efforts to bolster the political settlement and provide the necessary economic support to Yemen in all areas, including for convening the national dialogue conference. The conference will outline the future of Yemen by addressing various situations such as conflict, war and pending problems, including the monopoly of power and wealth. The aim is to build a modern civil State based on the principles of the rule of law, equality, inclusion, equal opportunity, the fair distribution of wealth, participation in decision-making and managing elements linked to the new State’s sovereignty at the national level under a political regime to be decided by the people of Yemen in the awaited national dialogue conference. I stress that the doors of the national dialogue conference are open to all Yemeni parties and all issues and demands. The conference shall be the means for correcting mistakes, achieving national reconciliation and developing the principles of a modern civil Yemeni State, under a unified Yemen, as stipulated by Security Council resolutions. The current political arrangements in Yemen for the implementation of the settlement agreement and resolutions 2014 (2011) and 2051 (2012) have the support of the brothers and friends of Yemen. However, Yemen still faces many political, economic, security and social obstacles and impediments. Those obstacles represent weaknesses and jeopardize the progress and prosperity of Yemen in the coming decades. It is a fact that 95 per cent of the Yemeni people have the willingness and ambitions to move with the rest of the world into the twenty-first century. The political and social problems and the escalating political conflicts, anarchy and acts of violence and extremism shall never stand as obstacles in the way of the Yemeni people. Therefore, the right way to address the situation in Yemen is to adopt an overarching vision that takes into account all circumstances and conditions related to the country’s history and geography and the challenges of the present and the future. A key factor is the strategic location of Yemen at the juncture of trade routes and in the heart of international sea navigation routes. Yemen faces the security challenges of organized crime, piracy and terrorist acts, in addition to the influx of illegal migrants and refugees to its coasts. There is an increasing trend of unemployment among young people under 30, who represent 70 per cent of the total population of the country. The youth look forward to a better future and a modern civil State. That requires the international community and donor countries to understand those factors and to provide urgently needed support to our country in various fields, including in the areas of establishing a modern civil State based on democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and social justice. There is a need to abandon the traditional standard and bureaucratic mechanisms adopted by donor countries and international parties supporting the path towards settlement in Yemen. As for us, we stand ready to provide a favourable and appropriate atmosphere for their work, absent of any complex Government bureaucracy, by adopting a high level of transparency and removing any obstacles they may face. I confirm that it is investment that results in stability, and not vice versa. Terrorists, who have pervaded our country for more than 10 years and were recently poised to seize control of different Yemeni regions and provinces, represent a huge threat to local, regional and international peace and stability. Although, following the heroic acts of the Yemeni armed forces and local popular committees and a series of defeats, Al-Qaida is today much weaker than before, we cannot underestimate its desperation. Due to its failure to adapt after its successive defeats, Al-Qaida has equipped its members with explosive belts and transformed them into time bombs against innocent and unarmed people. That has resulted in Al-Qaida losing any local or national sympathy. We reaffirm our commitment to eradicating terrorist elements and demand that its sources of internal and external support be eliminated. We invite our international partners in the fight against terrorism to provide more logistical and technical support to our security forces and counterterrorism units, and that they expand intelligence cooperation and coordination in that field. I cannot pass up the opportunity to draw attention to the humanitarian crisis in Yemen as a result of the terrorism and acts of violence in Sadah and the events of the past year that have resulted in the displacement of more than 500,000 people from their villages, in addition to the increasing number of refugees from the Horn of Africa region. That led the United Nations and its agencies to launch an appeal for approximately $600 million. However, the funding gap stands at 50 per cent of the required amount. I therefore call on brotherly and friendly countries to respond to the appeal of the United Nations to enable it to meet the basic needs of internally displaced persons and refugees in our country. It has been more than six decades since the General Assembly, which I have the honour to address today, issued the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is deplorable that, after all these years, many nations still suffer violations of their rights and dignity. The Palestinian people have been subjected to a gruesome escalation of Israeli violence. Israeli settlements are expanding, innocent Palestinians are maimed, activists are besieged, prisoners and detainees are oppressed and the attempts of the Israeli side to demolish the Al-Aqsa Mosque are continuing. That requires a stronger role and a more united and effective presence of the United Nations and its various agencies against Israeli arrogance and f louting of the resolutions of the international community and its rejection of all peaceful proposals and initiatives. The lack of international pressure on Israel represents a key failure in international justice standards. The role of the United Nations and international forces in achieving justice and freedom requires the exertion of pressure to implement international resolutions. In that regard, I ask: has Israel forgotten that its State was created on the basis of an international resolution? We declare our full support for the application of the State of Palestine to become a full State Member of the United Nations in order to affirm its legitimacy and to ensure respect for its recognized rights under international law. We also call on the United Nations to adopt appropriate solutions to end the crisis and internal war in Syria and to put an end to all forms of violence against thousands of civilians in Syria, including women and children. Proposed initiatives and announced peaceful solutions shall be revived to end the crisis and to make a success of the mission of the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi. I reiterate the call on all concerned parties in Syria, the Government and the insurgents, to heed and respond to repeated calls to initiate dialogue and make mutual concessions as the only way to stop the bloodshed. The only option for our brothers in Syria is to agree on an initiative to mark the path towards change and a peaceful transfer of power through the ballot box. There is no doubt that Somalia has been living in dire crisis since the early 1990s. Yemen and Somalia have deep historical relations and both provide strategic depth for each other. On that basis, Yemen played a leading role in restoring peace and stability in Somalia by supporting the reconciliation efforts and hosting various rounds of negotiations between different parties. Yemen did not stop there; it opened its doors to more than a million Somali refugees, despite the difficult circumstances Yemen is encountering and all the economic, health and security impacts of the refugee process. While we congratulate the Somali people on their success on their accomplishing a peaceful transfer of power and electing Mr. Hassan Sheik Mohamud as their new President in a democratic environment, we hope that those elections will lead to reconstruction of State institutions; the restoration of peace and security to Somalia; and an end to the humanitarian suffering and its consequences, including the suffering of a million Somali refugees in our country. We reaffirm the Republic of Yemen’s position of support for the elected Somali president and the Government he is forming. We will spare no effort to enhance relations between our two brotherly countries for our mutual benefit and in the interests of security and stability and of countering terrorism and piracy in the region. In that context, the continuing and intensive influx of migrants and asylum seekers into Yemen represents a real threat to national security, peace and stability in the region. It is essential that the international community share that burden with Yemen, especially since Yemen’s resources are being drained. Under the exceptional conditions that Yemen is dealing with, it is extremely difficult for us to cope with the continued f low of arrivals. The brutal ethnic cleansing of Muslims in Myanmar makes it incumbent on the international community to pay attention to that humanitarian tragedy and take concrete steps to stop the series of violent and savage acts being committed against that group. Considering the acts of ethnic brutality and other practices that have occurred in recent months, it is not enough to issue statements condemning and denouncing them. An international committee should be set up to investigate human rights violations against Muslims in that country, deliver humanitarian aid to them and provide guarantees to protect them against further violence and atrocities. Finally, I would like to reiterate my thanks to the President of the General Assembly and the Secretary- General. We greatly appreciate the role of the United Nations as an international platform that brings together all countries and nations of the globe for the sake of peace, security, freedom, human rights and coexistence between nations, religions and civilizations and their common interests.﻿It is indeed a great privilege for me to be able to address the General Assembly. Let me begin by congratulating Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election to the office of President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I assure him of our constructive support in his work over the coming year. We are assembled in New York at a time when we face multiple global challenges that transcend national boundaries. Developing countries are still to recover from the downturn in the global economy. Their quest for poverty eradication and sustainable development remains an uphill task. Food and energy security as well as health and education for their populations remain daunting challenges. The West Asia-North Africa region is seeing unprecedented sociopolitical upheaval. The question of Palestine remains unresolved. Threats emanating from terrorism, maritime piracy, drug trafficking and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction continue to multiply. Those challenges demand that we work for solutions in a concerted and coordinated manner. That is the only path to success. At the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), the international community renewed its commitment to sustainable development and recognized poverty eradication as the greatest global challenge. To act on that, it unequivocally reaffirmed the sanctity of the Rio principles. India remains committed to addressing climate change through a comprehensive, equitable and balanced outcome based on the principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities. In less than two weeks, in Hyderabad, we will host the eleventh meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity. We seek the support of parties to fashion an outcome that harmonizes strong biodiversity action with our basic development objectives. The process to develop a set of sustainable development goals has begun. The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) must be integrated in the new framework so that the unmet development priorities continue to be the main focus. In the interim, with still three years to go to the MDG target date of 2015, it is imperative to ensure that all efforts to achieve the MDGs are made. In the global discourse on the post- 2015 development agenda, the focus ought to be on the word “development”. It ought to be firmly entrenched in the understandings and principles of Rio+20 and be anchored in the intergovernmental process at the United Nations. Priority must be given to the challenges of poverty, unemployment, food and energy, water, health, environmental sustainability, unsustainable lifestyles and, above all, economic growth. Ensuring gender equality and women’s empowerment is essential to the pursuit of building inclusive societies. It is also an imperative for building strong and resilient economies. We are happy to support the efforts of the United Nations. We also need to pay particular attention to upgrading the skills of young people and to ensuring employment opportunities for them. Children and youth are our future. We need to invest in them to reap the demographic dividend to secure our future. India remains firmly committed to scaling up our development partnership with Africa, including through the framework of the India-Africa Forum Summit. Similarly, we will continue to build on our commitments for enhanced cooperation with least developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small island developing States within the framework of South-South cooperation. India is a multireligious, multi-ethnic and multilingual society. Our civilizational ethos has been underpinned by peaceful coexistence and tolerance, values that the founder of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi, placed at the core of India’s national life. Those principles are enshrined in our Constitution, which provides the foundation for our secular, democratic and inclusive society. Mutual respect for deeply held religious sentiments is the bedrock of tolerance and coexistence. Unfortunate recent events have highlighted the need for enhanced dialogue among faiths and civilizations. Violence cannot lead to greater understanding. It is necessary to uphold norms of peaceful international discourse. In particular, the safety and security of diplomatic personnel should be fully respected. Terrorism remains one of the most potent threats to international peace and security. The international community must adopt a zero-tolerance approach to terrorism and must focus on efforts to dismantle the infrastructure of terrorism, including its invidious network of epicentres, training facilities and financing. It is time we demonstrated the necessary political will to agree on a comprehensive convention on international terrorism so as to strengthen the normative framework against the increasingly sophisticated and globalized terrorist challenge. India continues to be gravely concerned by the menace of piracy and armed robbery at sea. Apart from the major economic and commercial consequences of that scourge, it has serious humanitarian implications for the large number of seafarers held hostage by pirates. The need of the hour is once again concerted international action under United Nations auspices, with special attention to addressing the welfare of seafarers and their families. Peacekeeping and disarmament are among the unique pursuits of the United Nations, because they embody the promise and innate potential of the Organization to make the world a better place. India has a proud history of participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations dating back to the 1950s, having taken part in as many as 43 peacekeeping operations. The challenge before the international community today is to ensure that United Nations peacekeeping is adequately resourced and enabled to meet the realities of today, including in post-conflict and peacebuilding contexts. In that regard, we are hopeful that progress will be made on all outstanding issues between the Sudan and South Sudan. India is committed to achieving a nuclear- weapon-free world. The principles of the Rajiv Gandhi action plan of 1988 for achieving nuclear disarmament in a time-bound, universal, non-discriminatory, phased and verifiable manner remain relevant, even after more than two decades. A renewed consensus on non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament must be forged. Meaningful dialogue among all States possessing nuclear weapons is needed in order to build trust and confidence and to reduce the salience of nuclear weapons in international affairs and security doctrines. Measures must be taken to reduce nuclear risks, including the grave risk of terrorists gaining access to weapons of mass destruction, and thus to strengthen nuclear security. The Conference on Disarmament — the international community’s sole multilateral disarmament negotiating forum — deserves our support in discharging its mandate of negotiating treaties on issues on the international disarmament agenda. The crisis in Syria continues unabated and is a matter of serious concern for us. Any further militarization of the crisis can have catastrophic consequences for the region. We urge all parties to commit themselves to resolving the crisis without any further bloodshed through an inclusive, Syrian-led political process that can meet the legitimate aspirations of the Syrian people. We support the efforts of the United Nations and urge all sides to cooperate in good faith with the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi. Support for the Palestinian cause has been a cornerstone of India’s foreign policy. We were privileged to receive President Mahmoud Abbas in India earlier this month. We support Palestine’s aspirations for enhanced status at the United Nations. It is imperative that there be an early realization of a sovereign, independent, viable and united State of Palestine, with East Jerusalem as its capital, living within secure and recognized borders, side by side and at peace with Israel, as endorsed in the Arab Peace Initiative, the Quartet road map and the relevant United Nations resolutions. India desires constructive and friendly relations with all its neighbours. We have a vision of a peaceful, stable and prosperous region with enhanced cooperation and connectivity linking us with Central Asia, the Gulf and South-East Asia. Within South Asia, we have sought to enhance bilateral relations individually with each of our neighbours and through the aegis of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation. We have embarked on a resumed dialogue process with Pakistan and advocate a step-by-step approach to normalizing our bilateral relations. An unwarranted reference has been made from this rostrum to Jammu and Kashmir. Our principled position on the issue has been consistent and is well known. The people of Jammu and Kashmir have chosen their destiny and reaffirmed it repeatedly through India’s well-established democratic processes. We wish to make it abundantly clear that Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of India. India supports the Government and people of Afghanistan in their endeavour to build a peaceful, stable, democratic and prosperous country. We are ready to partner with the Afghan people as they rebuild their country in accordance with their own priorities and national circumstances. The continuing existence beyond Afghanistan’s borders of safe havens and sanctuaries for terrorists is the major impediment to the restoration of peace and security in Afghanistan. India is committed to creating an enabling environment in which the Afghan people can live in peace and security and decide their future for themselves, without outside interference, coercion or intimidation. The United Nations and the norms of international relations that it has fostered remain the most efficacious means for converting today’s challenges into opportunities. However, we need to ensure that the architecture of global governance reflects contemporary realities. Sticking to structures designed at the end of the Second World War only constrains multilateralism from delivering on its promises. The most important and decisive step towards remedying that situation pertains to the Security Council, which must be expanded in both the permanent and non-permanent categories. A reformed Council must include countries that are capable of bearing, and willing to bear, the additional burdens relating to the maintenance of international peace and security, as well as willilng to sustain global campaigns against new and emerging global threats. Let me also stress that we must address, sooner rather than later, the incongruity of the lack of permanent membership for Africa. Equally, India will promote and lend its weight to enhancing the voice and participation of developing countries in decision-making in global economic and financial institutions. The quota reform process of the International Monetary Fund must be accelerated with altered quotas that reflect contemporary economic weight. Speaking in the Assembly on 14 October 1968, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi said, “The United Nations is the trustee of the world’s peace and represents the hopes of mankind. Its very existence gives a feeling of assurance that the justice of true causes can be brought fearlessly before the world. This Assembly and the agencies of the United Nations should, in all that they do, sustain those hopes and promote the causes of peace”. Those words remain true to this day. Let me conclude by assuring the President and the members of the Assembly that India will continue to abide by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and will strive to strengthen the United Nations.﻿Never before have Latin America and the Caribbean expressed themselves with such strength and unity as they did at the Summit of the Americas, held last April in Cartagena de Indias, Colombia. Once again, Cuba was excluded at the insistence of the United States. Argentine sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands, which our country fervently supports, and the lifting of the blockade against Cuba were the focus of a declaration that demonstrated that the American homeland envisaged by Bolivar — our America as envisaged by Marti — has entered a new era: the century of its ultimate independence. Some months prior, the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC) held its inaugural summit meeting in Caracas. No other institutional entity in our hemisphere in the course of the last century is of such major importance, wrote the leader of the Cuban Revolution, Fidel Castro Ruz, about CELAC. We know that CELAC still has not yet reached its full development, so that our peoples can go forward in ranks as compact as the veins of silver in the roots of the Andes. But Latin America and the Caribbean have definitively changed, and they are prepared to make a greater contribution to the world order. However, the threats, dangers and obstacles should not be underestimated. The policy of the United States with regard to our region, under both Democratic and Republican Administrations, has been essentially the same. The promises made by the current President in 2009 have gone unfulfilled. Tireless efforts have been made to control our wealth, to impose their models, culture and ideas, and to interfere in our internal affairs. Despite talk of “intelligent power” and the use of fabulous new technology, the focus remains on security and military deployment, rather than on democratic and mutually beneficial relations between equal, sovereign States. In the circumstances of a global economic crisis, the depletion of resources and the shifting balances in the world, NATO continues to perceive our region as a mere periphery of the Euro-Atlantic area, in which it might intervene to protect its interests, however illegitimate. The upcoming elections in the sister nation of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela will be decisive for the shared destiny of our region. We would like to express to the Venezuelan people and their leader, President Chávez Frías, our full solidarity in the face of the looming attempts at destabilization. The governing powers in the United States would be making a very serious mistake of untold consequences if they were to attempt to reverse by force the social achievements attained by our peoples. Cuba has continuously contributed to peace in Colombia, with discretion and modesty. We fully supported the confidential exploratory talks held throughout this year in Havana, and we will continue to do so as a guarantor and host of the upcoming process of dialogue between the Colombian Government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia. Our America will remain mutilated as long as Puerto Rico, a Latin American and Caribbean nation, lacks its independence — a cause that we fully support. Today’s world is in no way similar to the one that was envisioned by those who drafted the United Nations Charter, over the ashes left by the Second World War, when they expressed their determination to save our generations from the scourge of war; protect the fundamental rights of human beings and equality among all nations, large and small; and promote justice, dignity and social progress. Today, the overthrow of Governments through the use of force and violence is being blatantly encouraged. Regime change is being imposed from Washington and other NATO capitals, and wars of conquest are being waged for the control of natural resources and areas of strategic importance. The Governments of the United States and some European countries have decided to overthrow the Syrian Government. To that end, they have armed, financed and trained opposition groups, and turned to the use of mercenaries. Owing mainly to the firm opposition of Russia and China, it has not been possible to manipulate the Security Council into imposing the interventionist formula that has been applied in the context of recent bellicose ventures. Cuba reaffirms the right of the Syrian people to the full exercise of its right to self-determination and sovereignty without interference or foreign intervention of any sort. The violence, massacres and terrorist acts, which have taken a high toll in innocent lives, must cease. The trafficking in arms and money f lows that helps fund insurgent groups, as well as the shameful manipulation of reality by the media, must also come to an end. It is the duty of the General Assembly to make use of the means at its disposal to promote a peaceful solution to the current situation, which is destroying that Arab country, and prevent foreign military aggression, which would have serious consequences for the entire Middle East region. The General Assembly should act with resolve and recognize the Palestinian State as a full Member of the United Nations, within the borders established prior to 1967 and with East Jerusalem as its capital; and it should do so now, with or without the consent of the Security Council; with or without a United States veto; and with or without new peace negotiations. The global economic crisis, which is having a particularly strong impact on Europe, reflects the inability of Governments and institutions to solve a problem that requires a rethinking of the basic tenets of the current system of international economic relations, which serves only to pillage underdeveloped countries. The harsh consequences of the crisis in the developed world and the failed policies adopted so far in an attempt to stop it continue to be borne by workers, the increasing number of unemployed, immigrants and the poor, whose protest movements are being brutally repressed. The predicted increase in food prices as a result of the drought that is affecting much of North America threatens to exacerbate global food insecurity. Environmental destruction is also worsening. The loss of biodiversity and of the natural balance of ecosystems is accelerating; and the growing irrationality of production and consumption patterns, the marginalization of more than half of the world’s population and the lack of comprehensive measures to halt climate change pose an ever-increasing risk to the physical integrity of entire nations, particularly small island States. In the face of those colossal challenges, we wonder if anything could ever justify the fact that, 20 years after the end of the so-called Cold War, military budgets have almost doubled, reaching the astronomical figure of $1.74 trillion. As President Raúl Castro Ruz asked, against what enemies will those weapons be used? Will they be used to eliminate the masses of poor people who can no longer tolerate their poverty, or to halt the unstoppable migrations of survivors? Under these circumstances, it is urgent to save the United Nations and subject it to deep-seated reform, so as to put it at the service of all, equally sovereign States and free it from the arbitrariness and double standards of a handful of industrialized and powerful countries. International law and the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations should be resolutely enforced; the key role of the General Assembly should be restored; and a democratic, transparent and truly representative Security Council should be relaunched. The Summit of Non-Aligned Countries was successfully held in Tehran and reaffirmed the Movement’s positions in defence of peace, independence and the sovereign equality of States; justice; the right to development; sovereignty over natural resources; general and complete disarmament, particularly nuclear disarmament; and the right to the peaceful use of nuclear energy. We have pledged our full support to the chairmanship of the Movement. On July 31, the State Department of the United States included Cuba once again on its unilateral, arbitrary list of States that sponsor international terrorism. The true motive behind the inclusion of Cuba on that spurious list is to fabricate pretexts to increase the persecution of Cuba with respect to its financial transactions and justify the policy of blockade, which has caused immense human and economic harm totalling $1 trillion, based on the current value of gold. The United States does not have the slightest moral or political authority to judge Cuba.It is well known that the United States Government has resorted to State terrorism as a weapon in its policy against Cuba, which has caused the deaths of 3,478 of our compatriots and injured another 2,099. It is also harbouring dozens of terrorists, some of whom live in freedom in that country, and continues with the prolonged, inhumane imprisonment and cruel and arbitrary retention on its territory of the five Cuban anti-terrorists. Cuba strongly rejects the use of so sensitive an issue as terrorism to pursue political goals and calls for the United States Government to stop lying and put an end to this shameful exercise, which is an outrage against the Cuban people, the North American victims and the international community and discredits the cause of the struggle against terrorism. We reiterate to the United States, on the eve of the elections in that country, our irrevocable yearning for peace and our interest in moving towards the normalization of bilateral relations through dialogue, on an equal footing and with absolute respect for our independence. With absolute certainty, our people, come what may, with all and for the well-being of all, will continue on the path they have already chosen until they have achieved full justice.﻿On behalf of the Government and people of Saint Kitts and Nevis, I extend my sincere congratulations to Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election to the presidency of General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. His task, we know, will be far from easy in the light of the wide range of taxing issues that will be brought before him. As he embarks on his tenure, it is our hope that under his astute leadership, the myriad issues that define the work of the Assembly will continue to find relevance for all of us. It is imperative, therefore, that the mobilization of commitments required to advance the agenda of this sixty-seventh session begin now. We are aware that the challenges associated with that task are demanding and will indeed require our focused attention, strong partnership and visionary leadership if we are to make significant strides in an era embattled by a plethora of issues that threaten the realization of our various development goals. We have no doubt that he will provide the degree of attention they so urgently deserve. I must also at this point, on behalf of my delegation, thank Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, for so ably presiding over the work of the Assembly during the past year. Our focus this year is on continuing to steadfastly promote an environment of peace and security, which are the critical requirements for sustainable development for our peoples. As the geographic distance that divides us shrinks into insignificance and becomes increasingly reduced by our interdependence and partnership, it is equally significant that we strive for the effective and lasting settlement of disputes. Libya and Syria, of course, are just two of the many cases that come to mind, with the myriad and multifaceted questions that they raise, not only regarding the advisability of intervention, but also with reference to such issues as the timing of any intervention, the form of any intervention and, of course, the associated humanitarian and relief-related consequences of any such intervention. The complexity of those challenges demands a sober redoubling of our efforts and underscores the fact that social upheaval and human trauma anywhere must indeed concern us all. The Security Council must continue to ensure that it executes its mandate to enable the institutionalization of a culture of peace and security. Respect for democracy and the democratic principles espoused by the United Nations must inform the thrust of our engagement as we reject intolerance for diversity and embrace peaceful coexistence for all people. I take this opportunity to condemn the recent, senseless attack on the United States consulate in Libya, which resulted in the loss of innocent lives. It must be condemned from the highest level. Saint Kitts and Nevis is grateful to be a stable, socially cohesive nation. On behalf of my Government, I would also like to express our deep appreciation to the United States of America for its highly valued support, in the form of the Caribbean Basin Security Initiative, offered to both my country and our Caribbean region in our fight against drugs and criminality. It also addresses the issue of the reform that is required to ensure that our youth embrace renewed alternatives to lives of unproductivity and look towards a new hope for peace and prosperity through respect for human life. That is of great importance to us. The continuing f low of foreign-made small arms into our Caribbean region, however, concerns us greatly. Originating beyond our shores, those weapons have dire consequences in terms both of human life and of the economic stability of our nations. We are aware that changing cultural values are influencing the use of weapons by some in our nations, and we understand the importance of focused and effective policing and partnership on matters of security. In that regard, we urge the international community to make the production of a much-needed and long-overdue arms trade treaty an absolute priority. The interests of democratic nations everywhere cry out for the establishment of international standards and controls governing the illicit f low of conventional weapons, and I urge the establishment of a dedicated secretariat to assist States parties in that regard. I ask: How can small Caribbean nations be expected to deal single-handed with the double misfortune of being located between regions of massive drug production and regions of massive drug consumption? Small arms and light weapons always follow illegal drugs, and we in the Caribbean are simply not equipped to deal with the externally created crime fallout. On that point, I wish to stress that before its closure, the Barbados branch of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime provided critical, hands-on collaboration in this high-priority area of fighting crime. With its presence now having been withdrawn, the vital support that we need simply is not there, leaving us to adjust as best we can at precisely the time when drug- and deportee-related crimes continue to be a major hemispheric challenge. While we focus on the well-being of our people, my Government has strengthened its primary health care with increased attention to reducing the prevalence of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) and has updated an implementable plan of action that addresses the priorities in keeping with the Political Declaration on NCDs (resolution 66/2, annex). As part of our national sensitization mechanism on health-related issues, we are institutionalizing a culture of wellness with emphasis on healthy lifestyles. Similar responses have been initiated at the regional level, as we encourage Member States to participate effectively in the multilateral institutions to voice our positions on the issue of NCDs. That is why the Caribbean Community has taken the lead on this matter in recent years, with the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases. Therefore, in the light of the clear nexus between a healthy workforce and a nation’s economic potential, I urge this body today to move forward to launch a United Nations campaign to curb the global toll of NCDs as we move towards the realization of our Millennium Development Goals. At the time of last year’s High- level Meeting on NCDs, there was a commitment both to ensuring that this grave issue remains high on the development agenda and to ensuring concrete action in that regard. Hence, the type of global effort previously recommended would constitute precisely the type of concrete action to which we committed ourselves one year ago. Any discussion of global health must address the issue of HIV/AIDS, and because our ultimate objective must be the complete eradication of that dreaded disease — as opposed to the lifelong management and accommodation of same by millions of people around the globe — I appeal today for a wise, determined and discerning onslaught against the scourge at the local, national, and international levels by us all. Here and now, we must recommit ourselves to eradicating the stigmatization of and discrimination against people living or associated with HIV/AIDS. The abuses of human lives that perpetuate discrimination and stigmatization must come to an end. We in the Caribbean are committed to achieving exactly that. I wish now to address a matter that is profoundly troubling to small island States like mine. Whatever the debate being waged internationally regarding the question of climate change, and however dramatic the rhetorical jousting within various circles on the issue, we in the Caribbean can attest to the radical climatic shifts that our region has undergone in recent decades. Moreover, it is very troubling that the largest contributors of greenhouse gases are still not taking responsibility for the increasing temperatures, rising sea levels, coastal degradation, coral reef bleaching and decimation, infrastructural damage and loss of lives that their actions have wrought. Our peoples, our maritime integrity, our soils and our infrastructure are all interrelated contributors to our overall social and economic viability. And the absence of corrective and restitutional action on the part of the industrialized nations involved is neither constructive nor understandable in this highly interdependent world. The physical, mental and financial burdens that other countries’ energy usage has inf licted on countries like mine has been enormous, plunging us deeper into debt and severely frustrating our efforts to meet our Millennium Development Goals. While a shift to renewable energy will not instantly solve the myriad problems caused by a significantly fossil fuel-based global economy, the embrace of green energy will indeed help to halt the intense downward spiral into which our fossil fuel-based economies have thrust our planet. And so we strongly urge that green energy be made an absolute priority globally. I must commend the Secretary-General for his visionary leadership and the Governments and financial institutions that have committed generously to ensuring that high-impact clean energy is utilized globally. My Government wishes to place on record its appreciation to the Government of the Republic of China on Taiwan and other development partners for their valuable assistance to my country in the area of renewable energy, which will positively impact our energy cost-reduction efforts as we move towards realizing a full green economy by 2015 in order to bring much-needed financial relief to our people. The recently held United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) set the stage for a reconfiguration of the global programme on sustainable development, and signaled a new era in the sustainable development agenda of the international community. Two decades of debate and deliberation were instrumental in our being able to frame the dialogue, and envision a path for the two decades ahead of us. If we are to even approach the potential of Rio+20, it will be essential that we first face up to, and then break, the strictures of indifference and narrow self-interest that have plagued us for far too long. It is therefore incumbent upon us and future generations to view our responsibilities as parts of an ongoing continuum, with each of our efforts benefitting from and building upon the work that came before. Saint Kitts and Nevis therefore applauds the decision to convene the third United Nations Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States in 2014. Small island developing States, by virtue of our size and geographic profile, are clearly among the world’s most vulnerable nations — hence the recognition of our need for special attention where sustainable development is concerned and the importance of everyone remembering the absolutely essential nature of special and differentiated responsibilities where small island States are concerned. I therefore urge that clear targets be established now so that we can all prepare thoroughly and well for the 2014 Conference, at which urgently needed attention will be paid to the ways in which our own vulnerabilities as small developing States might best be reduced. This body can be assured of our full participation in the process and in the post-Rio+20 sustainable development agenda. Permit me to point out, however, the extent to which the best-laid plans of countries like mine are repeatedly upended by decisions made in nations far beyond our shores. I mentioned earlier the impact of externally generated carbon emissions on our economic prospects. I also discussed the severe national security threat posed to our region by foreign-made small arms and weapons that have been finding their way into our nations. Particularly trying as well, and very troublingly and destabilizing for many countries throughout the region — and indeed the world at large — has been the global economic crisis that made itself manifest in 2008, the ramifications of which have been trying and testing regional economic planners to the limits ever since. In no way of our making, that global economic crisis has severely complicated the task of governance in advanced economies and more so in highly indebted middle-income nations like mine. It has introduced both new variables and additional unknowns to our economic planning models, and has, in a nutshell, thrust upon us a backdrop of global volatility that none of us could have anticipated, that none of us welcome, and that has created immense difficulties for all of our people. Indeed, Saint Kitts and Nevis was forced to pursue a new economic development programme involving fiscal balance and debt restructuring, with built-in social safety nets. The assistance of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Union and our many local, regional and international creditors, including the United Kingdom and the United States, as members of the Paris Club, have helped us to alleviate the severity of the social impact of the economic adjustment and to restore confidence among our investors in the economy of Saint Kitts and Nevis. But we continue to face significant challenges, especially in relation to the attainment of economic growth in the context of a very sluggish and uncertain global economy. The mammoth challenges and difficulties that our small multi-island State faces underscore the need to pay greater attention to the issue of special and differentiated responsibilities in a rather trying era. It also underscores the need for small, responsible nations like mine to have fair and calm paths to redress in our relations with far larger and infinitely more powerful friends and allies. A few days ago in this very Assembly, the nations of the world held the High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels. While there is often debate as to the exact meaning of the rule of law, my delegation and the people we represent are happy to align ourselves with the core principle on the rule of law, as distilled by the late Mr. Thomas Bingham, Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales. In his book The Rule of Law, he stated: “The core of the existing principle is, I suggest, that all persons and authorities within the state, whether public or private, should be bound by and entitled to the benefit of laws publicly made, taking effect (generally) in the future and publicly administered in the courts.” Although not comprehensive, in my country’s view that represents a solid basis from which to identify the essential elements of a continually evolving concept and an essential mechanism for conflict resolution and for ensuring respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of our people. I support the call of the Secretary-General for a comprehensive approach to strengthening the rule of law at the international and domestic levels. I make the point because, over our almost 30 years of nationhood, Saint Kitts and Nevis has studiously examined both trends here at the United Nations and developments throughout the international community as we have evaluated our place in the world. Throughout that time, we have been faithfully guided by our belief in the rule of law. We believe that in the international arena, the rule of law was created to protect the vulnerable, like ours, and to remind us of obligations to our fellow human beings. We further believe that orderly and constructive coexistence requires not only citizens, but nations as well to be bound by the rule of law. Respect for international law has therefore, for our nation, always been our guiding force. My delegation calls on all States members of this great body to similarly respect that most sacred pillar of international coexistence. Throughout the 29 years of our existence as a sovereign nation, the Republic of China on Taiwan has been a highly valued partner and ally. Throughout my nation, evidence of our collaborative efforts abound in areas as diverse as agriculture, agritourism, green energy, information technology, community development and education, to name just a few. In my own nation or even my region, however, Taiwan’s unfailing and valued contributions to the work of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the International Civil Aviation Organization, the World Health Assembly and other forums have long demonstrated its outstanding credentials as a valued and impactful member of the global community. It is only fitting and just that all remaining strictures pertaining to Taiwan’s standing among the international community of nations be removed. Saint Kitts and Nevis appeals to this body to ensure that that will indeed be done. In closing, I wish to stress here how unfortunate it is that, yet again, the case has to be made for the lifting of the embargo on Cuba. The embargo is not, as some may wish to suggest, a matter of merely bilateral import. Not only have we repeatedly heard Cuba oppose the situation in this very body, but we also know that the embargo’s continued denial of certain medical treatments to the Cuban people is simply unconscionable. Cuba and its people have made considerable contributions to international medicine and higher education, and the Caribbean has been among its most sustained beneficiaries. It is therefore with the utmost conviction and clearest possible resolve that Saint Kitts and Nevis calls for the immediate end to the embargo. I recall that it was in July and August of this year that the international community participated in the games of the thirtieth Olympiad. At a time of rising international tensions and intensifying antagonisms, the time has probably come for us to introduce to other areas of international and intra-State realms of interaction the keen spirit of cooperation and mutual respect that has enabled the Olympics to function so constructively and so well for so many years. The international community is, by definition, diverse. Throughout the community, however, there run strong seams of commonality that can and must be better utilized in order to promote peace, the constructive airing of differences and the avoidance of violent conflict. Most importantly, when all else fails, we can and must settle the most vexing international crises through the good offices of this institution, our United Nations. That is the path that would serve all our best interests. I sincerely urge that we take it.﻿It is an honour and a pleasure for me to once again address the General Assembly. Kenya is at a time in its history that is full of hope for a bright future. Over the past 10 years, our country has enjoyed a sustained blossoming of democracy. In the year 2010, Kenya adopted a new Constitution. With that constitution, we further secured the human rights and civil liberties of our citizens and entrenched constitutional governance and justice. Equally important, over the past 10 years, we have scored significant victories against diseases including HIV and AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and other childhood and adult maladies. Hundreds of thousands more children have found their way into school and many more adults have found new life skills through training and capacity-building. We have also pulled hundreds of thousands of Kenyans out of poverty and put them on the pathway to economic independence and self-reliance. In doing so, we have also expanded our economic base, opening up new and extensive infrastructure, energy and information technology projects. The achievements in our country have been attained through respect for the rule of law, sound policies, improved governance and open and innovative democracy. However, as all Kenyans recognize, we still have a lot more work to do. Poverty, disease and unemployment still remain big challenges for us. Nevertheless, I am confident that we will seize opportunities to innovate and invest, and thus keep our country on the road to even greater prosperity. In accordance with this year’s theme, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, Kenya’s achievements over the past 10 years have been built on the bedrock of the peaceful resolution of disputes and situations in our country. In addition, it is our belief that inclusive solutions to disputes can bring about lasting peace. We know from our own history and that of our neighbours that when conflicts and disagreements are not resolved peacefully what follows are the tragic consequences of suffering, bloodshed and the collapse of economic and social development. That is why we are convinced that Kenya’s own well-being and prosperity are hinged on sustained peace, security, stability and inclusive democracy in our region. My country therefore remains supportive of efforts spearheaded by the African Union, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region and the East African Community for the peaceful and inclusive settlement of disputes and situations. Such regional efforts are central to the future of multilateral peacebuilding. They must be the building blocks of international efforts to maintain peace and security in our region and the world. Kenya therefore welcomes the Secretary-General’s initiative to convene a series of high-level meetings during this week to discuss the political and security situations in Somalia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Sudan and South Sudan. With regard to Somalia, Kenya joined the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), and through the combined efforts of AMISOM and Transitional Federal Government forces, we have witnessed the progressive liberation of large areas of Somalia from Al-Shabaab occupation. That development enabled the Transitional Government to focus on the implementation of the Kampala Accord road map, with a view to forming a unified Government anchored on the pillars of good governance and the rule of law. We are encouraged by recent developments in Somalia, in particular the election of a new President, Prime Minister and Parliament and the adoption of a new Constitution. There are millions of Somalis who are forced to live outside Somalia. More than 650,000 are in one refugee camp in Kenya. Following the liberation of large sections of south-central Somalia from Al-Shabaab, we look forward to working with the relevant United Nations agencies and the international community in facilitating the return of Somali refugees to those areas. That will enable the effective participation of all Somalis in rebuilding Somalia. With regard to the Republic of the Sudan and the Republic of South Sudan, Kenya is appreciative of the positive developments of 4 August related to the long-standing dispute over oil resources. We hope that that important agreement marks a first step towards reducing tensions between the two sister countries. Kenya also appreciates the efforts of the international community, both directly and through the African Union, and encourages the two sides to work towards reaching a compromise. I especially commend the African Union High-level Implementation Panel for its determination and leadership in steering the negotiations. We are confident that both countries will agree to urgently address contentious issues on border disputes. Kenya will continue to support efforts to find a peaceful and lasting solution to disputes between the people of the Sudan and South Sudan. We encourage the international community to redouble its efforts to fast-track support for social and economic development in South Sudan for the benefit of citizens of the new country. Kenyans are saddened by the great suffering and bloodshed endured by populations around the world, especially in the Middle East, the Horn of Africa and Central Africa. It is our belief that nations should embrace dialogue and the peaceful settlement of disputes instead of rushing to arms, for suffering and bloodshed will ensue. We call upon all warring parties in the world to lay down their arms and pursue the path of peace, dialogue and the inclusive resolution of disputes. We also remain concerned that no progress has been achieved on the issue of Palestine. As I said last year here in the General Assembly, Kenya believes in the two-State solution, in which the territorial integrity of Palestine within the 1967 borders is upheld and the peace and security of Israel are both assured and guaranteed. In that regard, it is our hope that Palestine will soon be welcomed into the community of nations with full membership in the United Nations. There can be no lasting peace without sustainable and inclusive development. Kenya therefore greatly appreciates the achievements of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development held earlier this year in Brazil. Kenya is encouraged that, in line with recommendations proposed during the Conference, the General Assembly has placed high on its agenda for this session some of the decisions we took in Rio de Janeiro. That is indeed an indication of our collective political will to ensure that the decisions contained in the outcome document are implemented. Key among those is the decision to strengthen the institutional framework for sustainable development, including the upgrading of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). Kenya appreciates that historic decision to strengthen and upgrade UNEP, which will enable it to fulfil its mandate effectively. Kenya reiterates its commitment to continue to host and facilitate the work of a revamped UNEP, and we look forward to its eventual transformation into a full- fledged organization for the global environment. Finally, we are all aware that many of our modern disputes and conflicts revolve around concerns about water, available land and agriculture, forests, rivers and lakes. Dealing with our environment and the effects of climate change is therefore an important part of resolving disputes and conflicts around the world. Strengthening global institutions that deal with the environment, biodiversity and climate change must therefore be a core part of our strategy to avoid conflict and disputes among the peoples of the world. It is important that, as the community of nations, we invest in the peaceful settlement of international disputes. However, we must invest first in the prevention of disputes and, secondly, in addressing the root causes of conflicts, such as poverty, inequality, disregard for international law and disrespect for each other’s sociocultural and religious beliefs, among others. Only by addressing the root causes of conflict and disputes can we hope to find lasting peace in a just and equitable world.﻿Allow me at the outset to express my sincere congratulations to Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I have every confidence that under his able leadership this session will be crowned with great success. Humankind continues to advance, drawing on our collective wisdom to address challenges throughout human history. Although new global challenges to mankind such as climate change, poverty and disease, underdevelopment, terrorism and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are now testing the international community, I have no doubt that we will overcome those challenges on our future path. The United Nations, the symbol of our collective wisdom, should take greater responsibility in coping with the challenges. I note with great satisfaction that the United Nations is becoming a more accountable and trusted international Organization under the prominent leadership of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. In that regard, I recognize and support the Secretary-General’s five-year Action Agenda, which I believe will guide us in addressing current world challenges and onward towards the future we are aiming for. The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), held in June in Rio de Janeiro, represented a critical step forward towards ushering in the world we hope for. The outcome document, entitled “The future we want” (resolution 66/288, annex), marks a substantial advancement for sustainable development. The task before us now is to capitalize on our achievements thus far and exert even greater effort on follow-up actions such as developing sustainable development goals, strengthening the institutional framework and mobilizing finance. As part of such endeavours, the Republic of Korea established the Global Green Growth Institute (GGGI). Sixteen countries signed the agreement to establish the GGGI on the margins of the Rio+20 meeting, and the Institute will be launched as an international organization starting in October. The GGGI will engage in a range of activities for disseminating the green growth paradigm, in which the economy and the environment form a virtuous cycle. Moreover, the Korean Government is prepared to step up its contribution to international efforts to achieve a sustainable future by hosting the secretariat of the Green Climate Fund. The Republic of Korea stands ready to render wholehearted support for the successful launch and stable operation of the Fund. The Republic of Korea is keen on contributing to the balanced and harmonious development of the international community and is fully cooperating in such efforts in the context of the United Nations. The Korean Government continues to increase its official development assistance to help achieve the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals. The Republic of Korea underscored the importance of inclusive growth and development partnership at the 2010 Seoul Summit of the Group of Twenty and the Fourth High-level Forum on Aid Effectiveness, held in Busan in 2011. In June, the Global Partnership for Effective Development Cooperation was launched for the implementation of the Busan commitments. The Busan Forum and the launch of the Global Partnership will mark a turning point for international development cooperation by broadening our perspective from aid effectiveness to development effectiveness. Our own experience has taught us that investment in education is at the heart of effective development. In that vein, we are confident that the Education First initiative of the Secretary-General will, indeed, provide a solid foundation for achieving the international development goals. The Korean Government extends its strong support for the initiative. The Republic of Korea is also taking an active part in the discussions on shaping the post-2015 development framework. We fully recognize the importance of a comprehensive approach that takes into account the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable development. The aspiration for human rights, fundamental freedoms and democratic values is the primary driving force for the advancement of humanity. Today, many countries have been striving to advocate human rights in tandem with democracy. The United Nations, as the epicentre of the international community’s efforts to promote and protect human rights, has provided timely assistance to such countries. Recently, we witnessed the strong desire of people in the Middle East and North Africa to realize their aspirations for democracy and respect for human rights. The recent positive developments in Myanmar are also well worth noting in that regard. However, while those changes are still unfolding, enormous challenges and difficulties still lie ahead. In Syria, a great number of civilians have been killed and gross violations of human rights have been witnessed. With high hopes towards the efforts of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria, the Korean Government will stand by the Syrian people through this time of suffering together with the international community. The Korean Government expresses deep concern at the recent attacks against diplomats and diplomatic missions in several places. Such violence cannot be justified regardless of the motivation. Putting an end to sexual violence against women in armed conflict is another issue that warrants serious attention. Wartime sexual violence is a fundamental infringement of human rights and is, in fact, an affront to human dignity and integrity. History has left important lessons that warn against such egregious acts. The Republic of Korea would like to urge the United Nations system and all Member States to do their utmost to put an end to such atrocities, not only by taking all measures to protect women and girls in armed conflict, but also by providing effective remedies and reparations for victims and ending impunity by bringing the offenders to justice in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations. Both a sound historical consciousness and a heartfelt soul-searching into any past wrongdoings are required in order to establish solid peace and stability between nations. A country’s true valour is proven when it confronts the dark side of its history and endeavours to rectify past wrongdoings. It is the firm conviction of the Korean Government that respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, should be the guiding principle for stable international relations. No country should abuse international legal procedures or the concept of the rule of law in order to infringe upon the territorial integrity and sovereignty of other countries or distort historical justice. The Republic of Korea is actively contributing to the global efforts being undertaken in pursuit of a world without nuclear weapons. The Seoul Nuclear Security Summit held last March brought together leaders from across the world to galvanize the vision and the determination of the international community to achieve a peaceful world without nuclear terrorism. During the Summit, the Korean Government played a leading role in forging a consensus to take important practical steps, such as the substantial reduction of nuclear materials, the promotion of the universality of international conventions and cooperation to combat illicit trafficking of nuclear materials. I am delighted that the High-level Meeting on Countering Nuclear Terrorism, which was convened this morning, has provided new momentum to further energize the efforts seen at the Seoul Summit for the prevention of nuclear and radiological terrorism. Furthermore, existing and emerging threats in cyberspace, such as rampant transnational cybercrime and potential cyber conflicts, present a serious challenge. It is therefore imperative that the international community address those threats. By hosting the 2013 Conference on Cyberspace, the Republic of Korea hopes to contribute in multiple ways to the ongoing global efforts to maximize the benefits of digital networks. We further believe that the event will provide an unparalleled opportunity to pool our efforts to cope with threats stemming from the misuse of information and communication technologies. The North Korean nuclear programme continues to pose a threat, not only to the security of the Korean peninsula and North-East Asia, but indeed to the very basis of the international non-proliferation regime. As long as the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea continues to pursue its nuclear and missile programmes, achieving the goal of sustainable peace on the Korean peninsula and in the region will remain far off. Unfortunately, the international community’s aspirations were shattered once again when the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea launched a long-range missile in April 2012. In response to that provocative action, the Security Council reaffirmed that the international community will not tolerate the continued pursuit by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea of its nuclear and missile programmes by issuing a firm and resolute presidential statement in an unprecedentedly swift manner (S/PRST/2012/13). We urge with concern that the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea should take concrete measures aimed at denuclearization, which will also open an avenue to improving the livelihood of its people. At the same time, we sincerely hope that the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will listen to the international community’s call for the improvement of that country’s human rights situation, as repeatedly affirmed in the relevant United Nations resolutions. As a country that has risen from the ashes of war, we have learned the values of peace and security. In that context, we earnestly hope to have the opportunity to promote such values by serving as a non-permanent member of the Security Council for the 2013-2014 term. The Republic of Korea is determined to fulfil that role with the greatest enthusiasm and devotion. We hope that States Members of the United Nations understand and support our bid for membership in the Council. We are united by the ideals set out in the United Nations Charter. In pursuit of international peace and security, the continued promotion of social and economic development and the promotion of human rights, we should embrace a spirit of cooperation and tolerance, with the United Nations at the centre of international efforts to that end. The Republic of Korea will persist in fully playing its part in the invaluable work of the United Nations, taking on the various challenges that humanity will continue to confront.﻿Allow me, at the outset, to extend my warmest congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Serbia, on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly. I should like to express to him the pleasure of the Union of the Comoros at seeing him preside over our work and to assure him of the full support of the Comorian delegation in discharging his noble task.I should also like to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, former Permanent Representative of the State of Qatar, who presided over the General Assembly with such wisdom, skill and determination and who was successful in working to strengthen its role. Finally, I wish to congratulate the Secretary- General, His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for the vision with which he has led the Organization and for the worthy initiatives he has ceaselessly undertaken to promote respect for the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, especially peacebuilding and stability for greater development. As was the case last year, the General Assembly is meeting in a context of global uncertainty. It is a climate marked by multifaceted crises, all of them major challenges for our institution. It is meeting at a moment when one of the Members of our United Nations family, Syria, is being rent asunder by a steadily deterioraiting fratricidal war, which poses a serious threat to peace both for the region and for the world, due to that country’s strategic geopolitical position. The resignation of the Joint Special Envoy of the United Nations and the League of Arab States, former United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, demonstrated, were there any need for such, the complexity of managing the Syrian conflict. It therefore behoves us to act without delay to put an end to the terrible suffering of the brotherly Syrian people and to save what can be saved of its various infrastructures. Just as important is the Palestinian cause. For decades now, it has awaited a fair and lasting solution, one found through our shared desire to establish together the solid foundations for a world of peace and prosperity. The Union of the Comoros reiterates its full support for the Palestinian people and associates itself with the formula of a Palestinian State as a full-fledged member of the community of nations, living side by side and in perfect security with the State of Israel. The situation in northern Mali is also alarming. The attacks carried out against the civilian population of the region, the serious violations of human rights, the obstacles erected to humanitarian access, and the destruction and looting of holy places and other religious, historical and cultural sites are barbarous acts that are contrary to the principles of Islam. That is why my country supports the commitment of the Economic Community of West African States, alongside the African Union and the United Nations, to put an end to those violations, which have gone on for much too long. One should not, however, lose sight of the fact that while some advocate fanaticism and extremism, Islamophobia is also taking on alarming proportions. Indeed, the dissemination of the video Innocence of Muslims has led to waves of indignation and many demonstrations throughout the world. Several million believers have felt their faith insulted and harmed. However, the protests against the unspeakable insults to Islam, Muslims and the Prophet Muhammad — peace be upon him — cannot justify the violence against Western missions in many countries. My country therefore condemns the terrorist attacks that in Benghazi, Libya, caused the death of the American Ambassador, Chris Stevens, and a number of his colleagues. I take this opportunity to reiterate to the American people and to the grieving families of the victims the most heartfelt condolences of the people and the Government of the Comoros. The ongoing existence of many hotbeds of tension throughout the world, the violation of fundamental human rights, and the growth of piracy and terrorism all speak to the need for urgent and in-depth reform of the Security Council. My country therefore reiterates its support for the African Union’s position regarding the need to reform the Council for better representation of the international community and for greater effectiveness in the settlement and management of conflicts. A few decades ago, my country resolutely committed itself to the path of democracy. It wishes to make its contribution to the promotion of a world of peace, security, justice and fairness. That is why I have committed myself, since my accession to the presidency, to spare no effort in promoting the rule of law and good governance in the Union of the Comoros. Above and beyond the setting up of all institutions provided for under our Constitution, including the Supreme Court, I have given major priority to the fight against corruption. An anti-corruption law has already been promulgated, and a national commission to combat and prevent corruption has now been set up and made operational. I thank the European Union for its assistance and expertise in this area, which enabled us to develop the document for our national strategy to combat corruption.This year once again, the global economic and financial crisis is at the heart of the Assembly’s general debate. That crisis has made evident the urgent need for a global form of economic governance based on the values of responsibility, fairness and solidarity. It has also placed before the eyes of the world the urgency of an in-depth reform of the international financial institutions. The repercussions of the crisis are becoming increasingly palpable, particularly in developing countries, where the rising price of staples threatens peace and stability. The crisis has also intensified problems linked to energy, which powers all socioeconomic development, limiting our ability to promote development through investments. Climate change is another major challenge our countries face. We must respond effectively to that phenomenon, which affects the entire planet, especially small island developing States such as the Union of the Comoros. I wish to stress that last April my country experienced two weeks of unusually violent torrential rains that hammered our islands, causing damage that had disastrous consequences for our population and the national economy. Ten per cent of the population was affected, a high percentage for a country as sparsely populated as the Comoros. In the name of the whole Comorian people and of my Government, I would therefore like to thank all the partners and friends who offered us urgent humanitarian aid to help us address that dramatic situation. The unprecedented storms led my Government to draw up a rapid recovery plan, with the aid and support of the international community. It will enable us to better help those affected and to restore destroyed infrastructure throughout our territory. That plan, which contains procedures aimed at restoring the situation within a period of six to 12 months, was launched at a round table held on 5 September in Pretoria, with the fraternal support of our friendly brother country, the Republic of South Africa. I would therefore like to appeal to all here to help finance the rapid recovery plan, whose cost has been estimated at $18 million. That will allow my country to better face the current situation and to better prepare for the future. The time has come to relaunch with greater determination a number of pending international issues, in particular those regarding measures to mitigate or adapt to climate change and to make operational the Copenhagen Climate Fund. We need to honour the commitments made to the countries of the South by implementing, inter alia, the agreements on emissions linked to deforestation and forest degradation, as well as a comprehensive agreement on climate change. We must also respect the Kyoto Protocol on the reduction of greenhouses gases within the framework of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Finally, we must do our utmost to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. Faced with all those equally important challenges, I urgently call on the most developed countries to apply to the most fragile countries the same mechanisms that have been implemented to reduce the impact of the crisis in Europe, in order to prevent more unfortunate consequences, knowing that our countries depend on the financial contributions of our people abroad. In that context, my country, which is currently a beneficiary of the Extended Credit Facility of the International Monetary Fund, hopes by December to have reached the completion point of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative. In other words, the new world economic order, based on the shared principles of fairness, transparency and prosperity that we have willingly embraced, requires a real and dynamic easing of the crisis that has struck the world. Africa impatiently awaits the advent of that new order to realize economic and social integration and to embark resolutely on the path of sustainable development. In conclusion, with respect to my country’s stability, before the General Assembly, I once again appeal to France that a frank and sincere dialogue finally be set up between our two closely linked nations on the question of the Comorian island of Mayotte. It has grown increasingly clear that the fact that Mayotte remains under French administration constitutes a threat to the peace and stability of the three other Comorian islands — the peace that remains the foundation of freedom and prosperity. It is true, and a secret to no one, that that island has always served as a rear guard for the detractors of the Comoros, those who would prefer not to see our country move forward despite its great potential. Moreover, the year 2012, now drawing to a close, proved particularly dramatic for my people. Men, women and children aboard f limsy boats known as kwassa kwassa perished in the narrow waters that separate the Comorian islands of Anjouan and Mayotte because of the visas that France imposed on the Comorians of the other islands. Surely that painful, unacceptable situation, which has lasted for decades, cannot fail to move this worldwide Assembly, whose chosen theme for this year is “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, including the rule of law at the national and international levels. I therefore hope that France will honour its commitments as a country that respects international law. Finally, I hope it will respond positively to our urgent call so that together we may find a positive way for Mayotte to return to its natural home, which remains the Union of the Comoros. That is how to put an end to the humanitarian tragedy and to guarantee lasting stability for my country. It is through a definitive solution to this conflict, which has lasted far too long, that France can contribute to the ongoing efforts to enhance regional integration, and thus to safeguard the interests of this region of the Indian Ocean that we hope to build together in stability and peace.﻿Freedom, dignity, self-determination and the hope of a better life were the driving forces behind the movement for change in the Arab world. As Germans, we know from our own bitter experience that freedom is not a gift. It has to be won and constantly defended. Freedom is more than just freedom of thought. It is freedom to express one’s own opinion and to voice public criticism. For that reason alone, freedom is not always comfortable. The first article of the Basic Law, Germany’s Constitution, states that human dignity shall be inviolable. That applies to every single individual, regardless of their origin, culture, creed or sex. As Germans, we have experienced what it is to lack freedom in the course of our own history. We will always stand by those who, wherever they are in the world, call for freedom of opinion, religion, the press and artistic freedom. Freedom has a daughter; it is tolerance. And freedom has a son; it is respect, respect for other people, respect for what is important to others, respect for what is sacred to others. Freedom therefore does not mean freedom from responsibility. Freedom always means freedom to shoulder responsibility. We understand the many devout people who feel wounded by the recent shameful anti-Islam video. However, legitimate criticism and sincere indignation cannot be used to justify acts of violence or destruction. Some would have us believe that the burning of embassy buildings are proof of a clash of civilizations. We must not allow ourselves to be deluded by such arguments. The vast majority of people oppose violence. The people who have taken to the streets, as well as their political representatives gathered here in New York this week, have expressed that forcefully. It is not a clash of civilizations. It is a clash within societies and civilizations. It is also a struggle for the soul of the movement for change in the Arab world. It is a struggle between open and closed minds, between moderates and radicals, between understanding and hate. It is a clash between those seeking peace and those prepared to resort to violence. The extremists want to prevent the emergence of freedom by inciting violence. They must not be allowed to succeed. Germany has taken a stand in that struggle. We will continue to expand our support for people in the Arab world. We are not going to turn our backs on them, but we will be open to them. Our values and our interests compel us to take the side of those around the world who are fighting peacefully for freedom, dignity and self- determination. Education and work, investment and growth — our offer of a transformational partnership still stands. I will never forget the Syrian father who held out his emaciated son to me during my visit to the Zaatari refugee camp in Jordan. Such suffering renders us speechless, but it also impels us to act. To this very day, the Security Council has failed to live up to its responsibility for the people in Syria. I express that criticism with great sadness. The deadlock in the Security Council must not continue. Every day, the violence perpetrated by the Bashar Al-Assad regime is escalating. The risk of a conf lagration engulfing the entire region is growing. Together with our partners and the United Nations, we are helping the many refugees in Syria itself and in neighbouring countries. All Syrians who want their country to have a democratic and pluralistic future based on the rule of law must work together. We support the efforts of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States, to find a political approach. Despite the escalating violence and despite the deadlock in the Security Council, we must not stop working on a political solution. During the past 20 months, the Arab League has demonstrated ever more clearly its adherence to the values enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. We welcome that and we want to build on it. At Germany’s initiative, during the last week in September, the Security Council welcomed intensifying cooperation between the United Nations and the League of Arab States (see S/PRST/2012/20). That is an acknowledgement of the Arab League’s constructive and positive role. We also pay tribute to the efforts to gain freedom in other parts of the world. As a result of the remarkable opening-up process under way in Myanmar, the country is emerging from isolation and gradually leaving repression behind. We criticize and strongly condemn the ongoing repression in our own neighbourhood, in Belarus. In many other Asian and African countries, which have struck out in a new direction, we are supporting political transformation by providing assistance for economic and social development. That is in the common interest of the international community. For there is one thing that becomes ever more apparent, and that is that without development, there can be no security and without security there can be no development. That applies to our engagement in Afghanistan, which we will continue after the withdrawal of combat troops in 2014. It also applies to the efforts to bring stability to Somalia and Yemen, to the Great Lakes region and to the countries of the Sahel. We are very concerned by the still-unresolved dispute about Iran’s nuclear programme. Iran has still not produced evidence of the exclusively peaceful nature of its nuclear programme. It has also failed to date to provide the transparency that the International Atomic Energy Agency has long demanded. So far, the talks during the last few months have not made enough progress towards reaching a solution. The European Union’s three plus three group has put forward proposals for a substantive negotiation process. We still await a serious response from Iran. We want a political and diplomatic solution. Time is short. Israel’s security is at stake. Indeed, stability in the entire region is at stake. However, that is also about averting the risk of a nuclear arms race with unforeseeable consequences for international security. I call on Iran to stop playing for time. The situation is serious indeed, and time is running out. We want a political solution, and we are putting all our efforts into achieving that goal. Those challenges must not lead us to lose sight of the necessity of a negotiated peace settlement between Israel and the Palestinians. There is a danger that the goal of a two-State solution, the only solution that can reconcile the legitimate interests of the two sides, will slip away. The two sides must build new trust. At the same time, they must refrain from doing anything that might jeopardize a two-State solution. Germany’s foreign policy is a policy for peace. Germany’s foreign policy is anchored in Europe. Many have been wondering whether Europe can successfully manage its sovereign debt crisis and whether it will continue to play a leading role in the world. The answer is an emphatic yes. Europe has a great responsibility in the world. And Germany is aware of its responsibility for Europe. The way out of the debt crisis is difficult. It requires spending discipline, solidarity and growth. We will continue down that road. Europe is growing closer together. Europe is consolidating. Europe will emerge from the crisis stronger than ever before. Europe will remain a force to be reckoned with as the world’s largest donor of development assistance, as an inspiration for peaceful regional cooperation, as a pioneer in climate action and disarmament, as a champion of rules-based globalization and as a driving force for United Nations reform. My country’s peaceful unification more than 20 years ago also signified the reunification of Europe. Since then, the world has changed dramatically. Today, we find ourselves on the threshold of a multipolar world. The world with its interdependencies needs a cooperative order. It needs strong and representative institutions. We will weaken the Security Council if we fail to adapt it to today’s world. Together with our partners in the G-4 group, India, Brazil and Japan, Germany is prepared to assume greater responsibility. It cannot be that Latin America and Africa have no permanent seats on the Security Council or that dynamic Asia has only one. That does not reflect the realities of today’s world, and it definitely does not reflect the realities of tomorrow. The challenges are too great for us to simply accept the status quo. The world is not only growing together; the pace of change is increasing. We are living in an age of breathtaking change. That change brings with it risks and new dangers, as well as new uncertainties. Above all, however, that change brings with it great opportunities, especially for young people. In this changing world we need a clear compass, and our compass is freedom. The yearning for freedom is rooted in people’s hearts all over the world. They are our partners in building a better future.﻿I wish to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I also commend his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser of Qatar, for his fine leadership during the last session. In addition, I thank the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his tireless efforts in advancing security, development and human rights, the three pillars of the United Nations Charter. Global security remains a serious challenge today. States are increasing their military capabilities and arms sales have tripled in the last year and are reaching record levels. Closer to home, in the Asia- Pacific region, new Cold War lines are being drawn and low-intensity territorial disputes are brewing. That situation provides the option of unilateral action, which undermines the rule of law at the international level. Those challenges now demand an effective multilateral institution that responds meaningfully in real time to uphold the rule of law. In that regard, Solomon Islands welcomes this year’s theme on adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means. It is our desire that States that find themselves in international disputes adhere to the rule of law and work towards ensuring global peace. Solomon Islands emerged from an internal conflict some 10 years ago. A regional peace initiative known as the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands (RAMSI) has helped restore law and order and created an environment for nation-building and development. Our gratitude goes out to all our regional neighbours. A national truth and reconciliation commission that was set up in 2009 to investigate the causes of the conflict submitted its report early this year. The Commission has facilitated the national reconciliation and healing process, and the Government has established a working group to carefully consider the recommendations in the report. Solomon Islands commends the General Assembly for convening the High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels this week. The rule of law is fundamental in guiding the conduct of actors and addressing the realities within national and international jurisdictions. Since regaining peace and stability, Solomon Islands has achieved some social and economic progress. For example, economically, the country has enjoyed steady growth in the last five years. External reserves continue to improve and, as of February 2012, they stand at 10 months import cover. In addition, Solomon Islands is one of the 11 countries identified by the World Bank in 2012 as having most improved the ease of doing business in the country across several areas of regulation. An economic core working group has also been established to coordinate donor assistance and is playing an important role in public finance reforms, including debt management, and in creating fiscal buffers that enable us to cushion external shocks. In the health sector, I am pleased to report that we have almost eradicated malaria from two of our nine provinces. Infant mortality has significantly decreased from 80 to 35 per 1,000 live births, and the maternal mortality rate has also decreased from 500 to 200 deaths per 100,000 live births. The Government and its development partners continue to fund medical and health centres to deliver the services needed by our people. Major improvements in the law and order situation have resulted in the reduction of major crimes and created a safer environment in the country. We have also successfully hosted a number of international events, such as the Oceania football tournament of the International Federation of Association Football, the Festival of Pacific Arts and recently the visit by the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge. We have regained our image of the country known as the happy isles in the Pacific. As part of our efforts to address governance issues, Solomon Islands has intensified its national consultations to determine the appropriate mechanisms to improve political integrity and stability. National consultations have been conducted to obtain feedback from the community on the required institutions and processes. Strengthening governance is expensive and needs international partnership. I take this opportunity to thank the Department of Political Affairs for its assistance towards our electoral reforms. After almost 10 years, RAMSI is now in its transitional phase. The Government is working closely with the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands to ensure a smooth transition as the responsibility for security and development is placed back in the hands of the Government and community. My Government will engage with various stakeholders, including United Nations bodies, to consolidate the gains that have been made so far and in building a resilient State. Solomon Islands continues to strengthen its relationship with the United Nations. This year we opened a second diplomatic Permanent Mission in Geneva. We are also pleased to see that the World Health Organization office in Honiara has been upgraded from a liaison office to the level of resident representative. We request the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to follow suit. I believe a stronger United Nations presence at the country level will further enhance understanding of the country’s development priorities and challenges. The United Nations will only be strengthened with a secretariat that represents the diversity of its membership. Solomon Islands recognizes the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Fiji. We will continue to dialogue with Fiji and call on the region and the international community to support Fiji’s “Engaging with the Pacific” process and its road map to the 2014 general elections. We welcome Fiji’s commitment to hold its general elections in 2014. Solomon Islands has also strengthened its mediating role at the subregional level through the Melanesian Spearhead Group (MSG). The MSG is made up of Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Vanuatu and the Front de libération nationale kanak socialiste. Within the MSG secretariat, a peacekeeping unit has been established. However, Solomon Islands and the other MSG members believe that the United Nations remains the bedrock of international peace and security. The promotion of human rights is fundamental to creating a culture of peace and security. Solomon Islands welcomes the ongoing intergovernmental process to strengthen the effectiveness of human rights treaty institutions during this session. We recognize the universality of human rights and call for the elimination of double standards and the politicization of human rights violations. On the situation in the Middle East, I believe the United Nations is uniquely placed to provide a comprehensive solution to the region’s complex issues, including the current situation in Syria. It is a region that deserves freedom, democracy and long-term security. Solomon Islands continues to support the work of the Quartet and the good offices of the Secretary-General in defusing tensions and advancing political discussion on a two-State solution for Israel and Palestine. There is no justification for the killing of innocent civilians, wherever it may occur. We therefore join the international community in expressing our deep concern about the sad events in Benghazi. With respect to Non-Self-Governing Territories in the Pacific, Solomon Islands supports New Caledonia’s aspirations to self-determination. I wish to inform the Assembly that, last month, members of the MSG undertook a second ministerial visit to the territory to monitor progress under the Noumea Accord. We encourage all efforts to enable the Kanaks to assume leadership in determining their future. Solomon Islands also joins its regional neighbours in supporting the reinscription of French Polynesia in the list of countries to be decolonized. We also support other peoples within the Asia-Pacific region that aspire for self- determination and independence. I welcome the work done by the General Assembly on strengthening the smooth transition process for countries graduating from the group of least developed countries. In working towards graduating from the group, we are embarking on a number of development initiatives. Under the Istanbul Programme of Action, Solomon Islands is pursuing three high-value national investments. First, with support from New Zealand, a second international airport is being constructed in the western part of our country. Secondly, the submarine fibre-optic cable project is expected to go on line by 2014. Thirdly, Solomon Islands is in the process of establishing two tertiary universities, the Solomon Islands National University and the University of South Pacific Solomon Islands Campus. Those national projects place Solomon Islands on a path to transforming its economy and ensuring that inclusive and equitable economic growth takes root in the country. We have done this by unlocking domestic and regional resources through the establishment of a debt strategy in partnership with the private sector and the Asian Development Bank. Furthermore, we are taking steps to maximize returns from our natural resources. As a party to the Nauru Agreement, we have closed off pockets of high seas between our exclusive economic zones in a bid to protect and manage fish stocks. In that regard, we have adopted the Vessel Day Scheme to guarantee an equitable share of benefits. We hold the position that the Scheme must be embodied in bilateral and multilateral fisheries agreements. We call on all distant-water fishing nations to respect that principled position. In the mining sector, we are now a member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, and we continue to develop policy and translate it into local laws and regulations. Mining presents a major opportunity to broaden our economic base. In that regard, we will be granting mining leases to a major nickel-mining company before the end of the year. It is estimated that the company will produce around 69,000 tons per year and generate significant job opportunities. At the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), we charted a new course to develop an improved paradigm for advancing and measuring the three pillars of sustainable development. The full and timely implementation of the Rio+20 outcome (resolution 66/288, annex) is crucial. As we approach 2015, we must accelerate efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goal targets in the remaining three years. Solomon Islands is implementing its national development strategy for the period 2011-2020. We call on our development partners to align their assistance with the priorities that are contained in our national development strategy. The proposed post- 2015 development agenda must take into account any shortcomings in the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, and the sustainable development goals must be viable economically, community-based and time-bound. We look forward to working with the experts who will be establishing the framework. Solomon Islands is pleased to be one of the 50 countries that UNDP will consult in developing the post-2015 global development agenda. We request that this consultation process also mainstream issues of concern to small island developing States into the agenda of the 2014 Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. I join my colleagues in the Alliance of Small Island States in reiterating that climate change is an urgent and irreversible threat to humanity. Solomon Islands is deeply troubled by the current low ambition level of the pledges by developed countries. There is a discrepancy between what has been pledged and what is necessary to stabilize temperature decrease. That means mitigation must be prioritized at the eighteenth ordinary meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity in Doha and greenhouse-gas emission levels meaningfully decreased. We need to have certainty that we are working towards a temperature increase of no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius, and not 3 to 5 degrees Celsius, in order to ensure the survival, viability and sustainable development of small island developing States and least developed countries. We deeply regret that some countries have opted out of the Kyoto Protocol, some have refused to take a second commitment and others have remained undecided on taking a second commitment. However, at the national level I am pleased to announce that, in June, Solomon Islands launched its national climate change policy, which mainstreams climate change into all sectors of the country. Solomon Islands is a country with rich biological and cultural diversity. It is a member of the Coral Triangle Initiative on coral reefs, fisheries and food security. This year, 22 Pacific Island countries and territories came together in Solomon Islands to showcase their cultural diversity and heritage. The region has indigenous biological and cultural diversity, which makes it an indigenous and biocultural hot spot. That hot spot remains fragile and exposed to threats and needs international support. We will be seeking ways and means of having that initiative featured on the global agenda. The reform of the Security Council must keep pace with the changing global realities. We support the call to make the Security Council more representative, relevant and effective. After four sessions, we are concerned about the slow progress of negotiations and hope to see progress during this session. My Government recognizes Taiwan’s flexible, moderate and rational foreign policy, which continues to promote friendly cross-Strait relations. Solomon Islands continues to support Taiwan’s meaningful participation in the United Nations system, including its aspiration to be a member of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Although not a member of ICAO, Taiwan manages more than 1 million f lights and 40 million passengers per annum. Similarly, Taiwan is the twenty- second-largest emitter of greenhouse gas, but it is not a member of UNFCCC. I firmly believe that it is our shared responsibility to engage Taiwan in our efforts to advance sustainable development and address climate change. With regard to Cuba, I thank the Government and people of Cuba for the support they have provided to the medical students of Solomon Islands. We join the international community in calling for the immediate lifting of the United States economic and trade embargo against Cuba. Solomon Islands encourages the United States to respect the principle of good-neighbourliness. Finally, with regard to gender equality and the empowerment of women, I would like to thank Member States for their confidence in electing Solomon Islands to the Executive Board of UN-Women. I also welcome the call by the Secretary-General to convene the World Conference on Women in 2015. Solomon Islands further acknowledges the $320 million in regional assistance from Australia to support gender programmes for Pacific island countries. Women play a very important role as peacemakers and leaders in Solomon Islands society. Our gender challenge has grown with time. Today we have national gender programmes that support empowerment. We look forward to working closely with Australia and the other Board members in advancing the cause of women and girls. Solomon Islands is committed to working closely with the President in establishing an inclusive, transparent and effective multilateral system. I would also like to assure him of our support for our common endeavour to build a peaceful and secure world for our children and future generations.﻿I would like to join previous speakers in congratulating Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I would also like to extend our thanks to the outgoing President, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser. This session of the General Assembly is an invaluable opportunity to bring together Member States in order to examine the challenges facing humanity and to join efforts in effectively addressing those challenges and in achieving internationally agreed goals. We all know that when decisions are based on common understanding and agreement, their implementation and success are more likely. Armenia continues to be committed to strengthening the institutional capacities of the Organization. We support the United Nations reform processes and are ready to contribute to them. We believe that the reforms are an opportunity to strengthen the role of the United Nations in solving the major issues facing our world and to achieve both the Millennium Development Goals and the sustainable development goals. We welcome the fact that the agenda of the sixty- seventh session, which encompasses the most pressing issues of our joint responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, proposes that the session focus on the settlement of disputes by peaceful means. In that context, we view the goals of disarmament and arms control as major elements of global and regional security systems. We must also shoulder the responsibility to work together to counter militaristic threats. A few days ago, on 14 September, within the framework of the United Nations, the first ever High- Level Forum on the Culture of Peace took place, calling for tolerance and seeking to build mutual understanding and respect. Unfortunately, today, hate and intolerance continue to spread in some parts of the world, and we have yet to dig into the root causes of such situations, to have the courage to openly ask difficult questions as to the reasons for them, and to face sometimes painful responses. Regrettably, we have witnessed intolerance and hatred in our part of the world, too. Year after year, Armenia has, from this rostrum, raised concerns about the militaristic rhetoric, blatant violation of international commitments and anti-Armenian hysteria being instilled into Azerbaijani society from the highest levels of its leadership. Many international organizations on human rights have been alerted to f lagrant cases of xenophobia, racism, intolerance and violations of human rights in Azerbaijan, as well as about the policy of hatred against Armenians. What has been the Azerbaijani response? It not only ignores the expectations of the international community, but it constantly takes new steps that go against the values of the civilized world. The latest such case is the Azeri Government’s release and glorification of the murderer Mr. Ramil Safarov, who had slaughtered an Armenian officer in his sleep with an axe, during a NATO programme in Budapest, simply because he was Armenian. The Azerbaijani leadership made him a symbol of national pride and an example for young people to follow. The world’s reaction was unanimous and very clear in condemning what was done by Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, in granting him clemency. Azerbaijan continues to express bewilderment at the stance of the international community. What did they expect — that the international community would applaud the glorification of a heinous murderer? The Azerbaijani leadership continues to pretend that the act was in accordance not only with the Azerbaijani Constitution and legislation, but also with the norms and principles of international law and the relevant European conventions. The leadership of the country claims that what was done was very good. It is very sad indeed that the constitution and legislation of a country would permit making a hero of a murderer and paying such a brutal criminal a salary for the years he spent in prison. The Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe warned that “to glorify and reward such a person f lies in the face of all accepted standards for human rights protection and rule of law”. The President of the European Parliament and the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe expressed concern about the abuse of the European legal instrument in question. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights said on 7 September: “ethnically motivated hate crimes of this gravity should be deplored and properly punished — not publicly glorified by leaders and politicians”. It is very clear that there are different perceptions about international legal principles and laws, different perceptions in Azerbaijan and the rest of the world about what is good and what is bad. That is deeply irresponsible and shameful behaviour, not only for a non-permanent member of the Security Council, but also a Member State of the United Nations. It is clear that the international community cannot tolerate the attempts of the Azerbaijani leadership to adjust international law to their own racist ideology. With a rich domestic experience in corruption, Baku is attempting to transfer that vice to inter-State relations, exploiting it as a tool in order to impose its own false perceptions on others. The international community cannot tolerate the attempts of Azerbaijan to replace the rule of law with the rule of oil. The scandalous situation regarding Safarov has seriously undermined the Nagorno Karabakh negotiation process and endangered the already fragile regional security and stability. Azerbaijan poses a threat to the security and stability in the region by constantly threatening to use force against Nagorno Karabakh and Armenia, along with the daily unprovoked warmongering by its leadership. It has not only rejected the proposals of the three co-Chair countries of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) group on the consolidation of the ceasefire agreement and on the creation of a mechanism of investigation of incidents along the line of contact but also systematically commits ceasefire violations, not only on the contact line between Nagorno Karabakh and Azerbaijan but also through provocations along the border with Armenia and ceaseless acts of vandalism against the Armenian historical and cultural heritage. While Armenia and the international mediators have been working hard around the negotiation table, Azerbaijan has increased its military budget more than twenty-fold during the past few years, and boasts about it. While Armenia and the international community have been calling for the withdrawal of snipers from the line of contact, Azerbaijani leaders have been rejecting those calls and have opened sniper schools for young people. While Armenia has been calling for regional economic cooperation, which could become a tool for increasing confidence between the parties, Azerbaijani authorities have declared that, together with Turkey, they will continue the blockade until there are no more Armenians in Armenia. Armenia and the international community are speaking in one language regarding the Nagorno Karabakh issue. The documents on the settlement of the Nagorno Karabakh conflict adopted within the framework of the OSCE Astana Summit in 2010; the OSCE Ministerial Conferences of Helsinki in 2008, Athens in 2009, Ahnaty in 2010 and Vilnius in 2011; the statements of Presidents of the Co-Chair countries within the framework of the Group of Eight Summits in l’Aquila in 2009, in Muskoka in 2010, and in Deauville in 2011; and during the Group of 20 Summit in 2012 in Los Cabos serve as proof of that. The position of Armenia is in line with those documents, and it is in line with the position of the international community, namely, to accept the settlement on that basis. Despite the intensive efforts of the three Co-Chair countries of the OSCE, it has been impossible to reach a breakthrough, because the Azerbaijani side has rejected, one after another, all of the proposals presented by the mediators. Despite Azerbaijan’s destructive stance, Armenia will continue to work towards the settlement of the Karabakh issue exclusively through peaceful means and on the basis of the purposes, principles and norms reflected in the Charter and international law. Like many other speakers, I wish to express our concerns about the developments and worsening of the humanitarian situation in Syria, which also directly affects the large Armenian community in that country. That community was formed mainly by the survivors of the Armenian genocide in the Ottoman Empire at the beginning of the twentieth century. Today, they are struggling for life, as are many Syrian citizens. Armenia continues to receive refugees from Syria; those refugees are full of worries about the escalation of violence in that country. It is impossible to reach a durable settlement without the cessation of hostilities by all parties and without an inclusive political dialogue that takes into account the interests of all Syrians. Next year, the United Nations will mark the sixty- fifth anniversary of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. That anniversary will become an important landmark and occasion on which to create a more effective instrument for combatting the crimes of genocide. The denial of genocide and impunity pave the way for the repetition of new crimes against humanity. As descendants of the nation that survived the horrors of the first genocide of the twentieth century, we are convinced that the international community must stand together — independent of any kind of considerations — in the recognition and strong condemnation of genocide, so as to be able to prevent it from occurring. In the absence of such unanimity, humankind will witness new attempts at crimes against humanity. Our strong conviction is that we should keep the issue high on our common agenda. We should recommit to a world where the crime of genocide can never occur again. Armenia gladly assumes its share of our common responsibility to support the United Nations as a platform for dialogue, multilateralism and collective action in addressing the multiple challenges of today’s world.﻿It is a genuine honour and pleasure for me to take the f loor in the General Assembly Hall to report on the great interest that the Central African Republic takes in the major international issues of concern to everyone here. However, before doing so, I would like, on behalf of my whole delegation, to extend my warm congratulations to Mr. Jeremić on his election to the presidency of the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to assure him of our full cooperation in his noble and demanding work. I would also like to commend the excellent work done under the presidency of Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser during the sixty-sixth session. I wholeheartedly express my deepest thanks to Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon for the particular attention he focuses on our post-conflict country, where the quest to achieve and build peace remains a major challenge on the road to reconstruction and development. I also commend his tireless efforts to strengthen the role of the United Nations and to consolidate ever more firmly the moral authority of the Organization. Before conveying our assessments and perspectives on the main recurring themes of the general debate, which constitute a litany of global concerns, let me first say that my country welcomes the initiative in convening at the outset of the current session the High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels. That is an issue of critical importance, considering that the rule of law itself is being harshly put to the test all over the world. All States and all international institutions should strive to promote the rule of law at both the national and the international levels. Strengthening the rule of law and democratic institutions is of the utmost importance, because they represent the guardians of sovereignty and peaceful coexistence. The real battle at the national and international levels is to enforce respect for the rule of law wherever chaos prevails. Many challenges remain in maintaining the rule of law. Hotspots persist and old conflicts erupt anew in many parts of the world, causing tragedy and threatening to unravel the rule of law. In Africa the rule of law is particularly at risk of breaking down, threatened by tensions, disputes and conflicts in a number of high-tension areas, especially Mali, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Sudan, South Sudan and Somalia. The same applies to other crises all over the world, carrying untold risk to governance and stability within countries, not to mention to international relations. The Government of the Central African Republic goes to great lengths to support efforts to promote the rule of law, justice and transparency through its management of the national institutions charged with enforcing the rule of law. Without peace and stability at the global and regional levels, national security and stability are out of the question, and therefore so is the rule of law. All around the globe we hear cries for freedom and democracy. Since 1989 the world has been in a period of change that has sparked much political fire in Africa. With the international transformations of the 1990s, many African States, including the Central African Republic, have begun to move towards democratizing their political systems. Democracy, good governance and human rights are interdependent. We can say that there can be no rule of law unless those values are respected, both by Governments and the governed. The support and programmes designed to respond to citizen’s expectations must take those shared values into account, and the Government of the Central African Republic strives to achieve that every day. The Central African Republic has returned to democratic practices, and there is no question that through the evolving democratic process efforts have been made to improve the management of public affairs politically, economically and socially. But we must admit that much remains to be done, and it is something that the international community must commit to collectively. My country’s commitment to human rights has been demonstrated, not only through its full accession to many if not almost all, of the relevant international and regional instruments, but also in practice, through its encouragement of those rights. Under the leadership of General François Bozizé, President of the Republic and Head of State, we adopted a new Constitution on 27 December 2004. The Constitution enshrines the principles of good governance, maintains the rule of law and respect for human rights, and broadens the scope of individual and collective liberties. The Constitution also provides for recognition of the principle that international conventions ratified by the Central African Republic take precedence over national legislation, thus encouraging the harmonization of our laws with our international commitments. In expressing its political will within the framework of the defence of civic and political rights protected by the African Charter of Human and Peoples’ Rights, the Central African Republic implements the provisions of that Charter, which have been incorporated into its laws. The Government is also making efforts to protect and encourage vulnerable groups, such as women and children and minorities, through social policies that benefit them. We are aware that the press is the fourth estate in every democracy. In order to guarantee the exercise of the freedom of the press in the Central African Republic, the Government enacted, on 22 February 2005, Ordinance No. 05002, concerning freedom of communication, which relaxes the laws concerning press offences, notably by replacing prison terms with ordinary fines for any contravention of the laws in question. In an effort to avoid post-electoral political crises, the Government, the political parties — both the majority and the opposition parties — trade unions and civil society are currently reviewing the electoral code in order to correct dysfunctional areas that were noted during the election campaigns of January 2011. The work being done will enable Central African political actors to undertake reforms and essential improvements for the next electoral cycle in a spirit of dialogue and consensus. The state of the world should make us aware of the urgent need to strengthen multilateralism in order to avoid the collective disaster we face, if we do not speedily come up with appropriate and agreed-on solutions to our global problems. The fundamental goals of disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction continue to be held hostage to the policy of the double standard, along with the discriminatory practices and lack of respect for commitments undertaken on the part of certain nuclear Powers. The fight against terrorism and violations of human rights around the world, which is approached selectively, and the biased implementation of international humanitarian law has given rise to legitimate doubts as to whether those noble causes are being exploited for political ends. That calls for action by the Organization. Issues of climate change and the protection of the natural world also demand a changed approach that takes into account the aspirations of all peoples. Floods and energy and drought-induced food crises continue in some parts of the world, and such crucial issues require greater mobilization on the part of the international community. This year we will renew the debate on the central role of the United Nations system, while putting particular emphasis on the global governance that it embodies. The Organization remains the keystone of the new world order and the conscience of humankind. That is why the need is greater than ever for a United Nations that can take on a more leading role in that global governance, a groundbreaking organization that will be at the forefront of actions promoting an inclusive framework and global and lasting solutions to all the crises that trouble our world and have direct repercussions for human rights. Increasing multipolarization and economic globalization, the recent evolution of world economic governance and growing cooperation between emerging countries have all presented valuable development opportunities to many countries around the world. The United Nations is the most universal and representative intergovernmental organization with the greatest authority, and it is the most important platform for achieving multilateralism. Since its establishment it has played a huge and irreplaceable role in maintaining world peace, promoting shared development and strengthening international cooperation. In today’s world its role must be reinforced, not weakened. The Central African Republic will continue to support the essential and rational reform of the United Nations in line with the evolution of the international situation, in order to increase its authority and effectiveness, strengthen its capacity to deal with new threats and challenges and better implement the mandates entrusted to it by the Charter. Both the revitalization of the General Assembly and the necessary reform of the Security Council in order to meet the legitimate aspirations of developing countries, in particular in Africa, are certainly valid. The issue of civilian resources needed in postconf lict situations takes us back to the Organization’s initial purpose: to be a centre for the coordinated efforts of nations to maintain international peace and security through peaceful means. The Charter has given rise to two texts on the peaceful settlement of disputes: the General Assembly Manila Declaration on the Peaceful Settlement of International Disputes of 1982 (resolution 37/10, annex) and the 1988 Declaration on the Prevention and Removal of Disputes and Situations Which May Threaten International Peace and Security and on the Role of the United Nations in this Field (resolution 43/51, annex). We could also mention resolution 47/120, entitled “An Agenda for Peace”, drawn up following the summit meeting of the Security Council in January 1992 convened to establish a doctrine of preventive diplomacy in order to anticipate crises or to facilitate their settlement through the mechanisms of good offices, mediators and special envoys of the Secretary- General supported by the Mediation Support Unit. In that context, the Government of the Central African Republic welcomes the African Union’s launching of the African Solidarity Initiative in July. Its aim is to mobilize contributions of all kinds in support of the various reconstruction phases in African countries emerging from conflict. Post-conflict reconstruction is complex and requires short-, medium- and long-term programmes to prevent violence from escalating and the reoccurrence of violent conflict and to strengthen and consolidate a lasting peace. Under the presidency of President Bozizé, the Central African Republic, a post-conflict country that owes much to the virtues of dialogue, quickly noted the significance of such a tool in the prevention and settlement of national crises. In that regard, I would like to draw the international community’s attention to the fact that the Central African Government has made the issue of mediation a priority concern in its work plan. To that end, it established the National Mediation Council. We should perhaps go further in establishing civilian mediation bodies for the restoration of peace, whose members would be charged with visiting the warring parties in order to establish dialogue between them and to help them to settle their disputes through peaceful means. The Central African Republic affirms that there can be no rule of law without respect for and the promotion of rights and freedoms, including that of religion, which should be practiced without extremism, the consequences of which often lead to a clash of civilizations. Regional and international meetings have taken place in the context of the dialogue of civilizations. However, violence and intolerance continue to affect social relations. This is the place to express to the American people the sincere condolences of the Central African Government over the attacks on the United States consulate in Benghazi, which led to the death of innocent victims.﻿In accordance with Ghanaian tradition and custom, I would like to begin with a basic but essential courtesy by expressing, on behalf of the Government and people of my beloved country, our deepest gratitude and most profound appreciation to the United Nations and to the numerous world leaders who mourned with us following the sudden and untimely death of our former President, Mr. John Evans Atta Mills. Ghanaians were touched by the many heartfelt messages of condolence and the glowing tributes that poured in from all over the globe. Those messages of goodwill strengthened us and enabled us to transcend the adversity of an occurrence that was unprecedented in the history of Ghana. Mr. Mills was a dedicated and honourable statesman. He committed himself to bringing about improvement not only in the lives of Ghanaians but also in the lives of all other Africans, and indeed in the lives of individuals throughout the world. His death was a significant loss, and I am certain that he will be sorely missed by the international community. With the first-hand knowledge of what it means for a nation to lose its leader, I also want to take this opportunity, on behalf of all Ghanaians, to extend condolences to the people of Ethiopia, Malawi and Guinea-Bissau, who also suffered the untimely demise of their sitting Presidents. May the souls of these great men, who gave so self lessly and helped to move our nations forward, rest in perfect peace. One of the lessons that I learned from the tragedy of Mr. Mills’s death — and it is a lesson worth sharing — is that it is during times such as these, times of great sorrow and pain, that we often reveal the very essence of who we are. That is as true of nations as it is of individuals. Over the past few months, Ghanaians have shown ourselves to be resilient and respectful of the values that promote peace and the institutions that safeguard the stability of our democracy. In our process of healing from that great loss, we have become more united and more determined to stay the course that we began in 1957, when we became the first sub-Saharan African nation to gain independence. In the process of healing, we have become more confident than ever before in our ability to create a better Ghana for our children. Today’s assembly of Heads of State is being held at a most critical time. Our world is being confronted with a number of significant challenges. War, conflict and strife are very much features of our present existence. Poverty, disease and famine continue to cripple the lives of many. Oppression, discrimination, illiteracy and unemployment still stif le the potential and shatter the hopes of millions. Although examples of such conditions can be found on every continent, for a while, whether rightly or wrongly, they seemed to be automatically and primarily associated with Africa. Perhaps that is why it gives me such great pleasure to lead my address to the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session with news of progress from Ghana and stories of success from the African continent. Today, Africa boasts of some of the fastest-growing economies in the world, with Ghana being one of them. The number of countries engaged in conflict is steadily decreasing year after year. As that happens, we are also witnessing a steady increase in the number of countries that are governed along democratic lines. As is true of all new democracies, those systems are not without their f laws. While they may not be perfect, however, they are promising. In fact, three African countries that lost their leaders this year — Ethiopia, Malawi and, of course, Ghana — experienced seamless and peaceful constitutional transitions of power to a new leadership. Members can see that, right now, something spectacular is happening in Africa. Growth is taking the place of stagnation; tranquillity the place of turmoil; and democratic governance, founded on the rule of law, the place of dictatorship. There is no denying the visibility and viability of such significant developments. At the very least, they require a re-examination of the long-held views and misconceptions about the African continent. Those developments must also find expression in the manner in which developed nations relate to Africa. In many ways, that is already taking place, but the shift has only just begun. There is still much room for improvement. However, I am inspired by what I see, which are limitless possibilities for Africa and its engagement with the rest of the world. As the United Nations Human Development Index attests, we in Ghana have made tremendous strides in a number of areas, with the aim of improving the living conditions of our people. Ghana is on track to achieve the targets set under the Millennium Development Goals. Significant progress has been made in the following areas: reducing poverty, gender parity in school enrolment, universal primary education, the provision of safe drinking water and the fight against HIV/AIDS. Unemployment is a challenge that exists on a global scale. Nearly all nations, be they developed or developing, are grappling with finding ways to tackle that potential threat to their economic stability. In Ghana, we are attempting to deal with the problem as aggressively and as effectively as possible by finding long-term and sustainable solutions. That includes a programme that we will launch to encourage young people to become entrepreneurs, owning their own businesses and thereby becoming employers rather than employees. In Africa, to say that the youth are our future is slightly misleading. Nearly 60 per cent of the continent’s entire population is below the age of 35. Our young people are not only our future, but also our present. In Ghana, we have been working assiduously to empower and support our youth so as to ensure that they will not be left behind owing to fast-changing global economic, educational and social priorities. The Government is implementing several social protection programmes across various sectors to cushion the poor and the vulnerable and to ensure that the fruits of our economic growth are distributed equitably. Under those programmes, massive investments have been and are still being made in education, health care, the modernization of agriculture, the social infrastructure and direct payments to the poorest households. In furtherance of our battle against HIV/AIDS, a new five-year national strategic plan has been launched to consolidate the gains already made in reducing the prevalence of the disease. Under the new plan, our target is to achieve the virtual elimination of mother-to-child transmission and to expand access to antiretroviral therapy for persons living with HIV/AIDS. The Government of Ghana has committed approximately $80 million as its contribution to the financing of the new strategic plan. However, that is not enough. We now find ourselves in a rather ironic situation that is threatening the advances we have made thus far. Ghana, like several other developing countries that have made remarkable headway in combating HIV/AIDS, is becoming a victim of its own success. As the numbers associated with the disease — the rates of infection and the mortality — go down, so too do the figures in the global funding for HIV/AIDS programmes. That leaves a considerable financing gap for many African countries, such as Ghana, that are trying not only to maintain their progress but also to move closer to the complete eradication of the disease. In 1992, under the Constitution of its fourth republic, Ghana established itself as a multiparty democracy. Since then, we have held five successful elections, which have resulted in the smooth transfer of power from one democratically chosen leader to another. When it comes to transparency in the electoral exercise, Ghana is, in fact, held up as an example of excellence. We are just a few weeks away from conducting our sixth presidential and parliamentary election. As President, I wish to assure the international community that that election will also be free, fair and peaceful. I am so certain of our stability through that process that I extend a warm welcome to any individual or organization that would like to come and monitor our elections. The commitment to peace that I have pledged in the past, and which I am pledging anew today, is in keeping with a long-standing tradition that Ghana has established domestically and internationally. In the 1960s, when Ghana deployed 8,800 soldiers to what is now the Democratic Republic of Congo, it went on record as the first African country to participate in a United Nations peacekeeping mission. Since then, Ghana has continued to be an active and key partner in the United Nations peacekeeping programme. It was recently ranked among the 10 largest contributors of personnel to peacekeeping operations over the years. Currently, we have troops in five peacekeeping theatres throughout the world. Ghana’s consistent championing of peace is neither accidental nor coincidental, but by design and by determination. We have always recognized that peace is critical to development and to the overall improvement and enrichment of our people’s lives. It is therefore no wonder that, in 1961, when United States President John F. Kennedy established the Peace Corps, its very first mission was in Ghana. In the past two decades, Ghana’s position on peace has been tested again and again as the West African subregion was ravaged by one civil war after another. However, we held firm to that position and will continue to do so. Because Ghana wishes to coexist harmoniously with all our neighbours, when legislating policy, we are always conscious of the importance of peace. When offering asylum or a safe haven to refugees, we are always protective of our borders, making certain that political conflict and ethnic tension do not cross over onto our soil. The unfolding tensions in Côte d’Ivoire and Mali have been and continue to be of particular concern to us. Let me say that Ghana will not allow its territory to be used to destabilize any other nation. We will not be the storehouse for any resources or weapons that may be used to disrupt the peace and development of another nation. We will not harbour any individual or group whose intent is to use Ghana as a base of operations to undermine the safety and security of our neighbours. We will work under the ECOWAS protocol and will utilize whatever other tools of diplomacy are at our disposal to ensure that security and peace are established in Mali and Côte d’Ivoire and that those countries find a place alongside their fellow African countries in the continent’s march forward towards prosperity. Ghana has a strong belief in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Under the principle of the self-determination of peoples, Ghana was the first sub-Saharan country to emerge from colonial domination. Our nation’s founding father, Mr. Kwame Nkrumah, proclaimed that the independence of Ghana is meaningless unless it is linked with the total liberation of the African continent. In keeping with that right of self-determination, we wish to restate our support for an independent, prosperous Palestinian State, coexisting peacefully with a free, stable Israeli State. We also reiterate our opposition to the continuous blockade on Cuba and call for an immediate lifting of that embargo. The twenty-first century can readily be described as the century for Africa. Last year, of the 10 fastest growing economies in the world, six were African. Ghana, my own country, posted one of the highest gross domestic product growth rates, reaching as much as 14 per cent. Foreign direct investment amounted to some $1.5 billion across various sectors. That type of sustained growth in combination with security and democracy can only ensure an Africa that will bear no resemblance to the ghost of its former self. It will be an Africa where we create equal opportunities for women to realize their full potential and where there is respect for the rights of all human beings. The new Africa will wean itself from handouts and humanitarian relief. It will not continue to succumb to the corruption and oppression of despots. The new Africa will stand on the world stage as a mutual partner. True partnership, of course, must be based on equality. When the founding fathers of the United Nations established the Security Council some 66 years ago, it was based on the reality of the time. Almost seven decades later, the paradigms and dynamics of the world have shifted dramatically. The lines that divided our world and categorized it into hierarchies of first and third worlds — those lines were drawn by settlers transforming once sovereign lands into colonies and territories — all of those boundaries have now become blurred. Technology has made information more immediately accessible to the general public and individuals more accessible to one another. The world that we know today is not the same world our fathers and grandfathers knew. Our world is smaller, more integrated and familiar. The current realities call for greater inclusion in order to consolidate our common security. They inform Ghana’s call for an expansion of the Security Council to admit more members in order to have a meaningful impact on the many challenges that we all face. Africa is ready for that true and sincere partnership. Our time has come.﻿First of all, allow me to extend to Mr. Vuk Jeremič my sincere congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I am convinced that his extensive professional experience will contribute to the successful work of the this session of the Assembly of our universal Organization. It is my great pleasure to convey my greetings to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and to express my country’s sincere appreciation for his tireless efforts towards achieving the goals of the United Nations. Once again, recent world developments have proved that it is impossible to address global and regional issues without strengthening the central role of the United Nations in international affairs or without collective initiatives in world politics that fully respect the norms of international law. In that regard, it has become obvious that the Organization needs rational reform, as a result of which a renewed United Nations will emerge that will be able to respond quickly and appropriately to world developments and to effectively meet the numerous global challenges and threats of the next generation. The efforts to strengthen United Nations peacebuilding activities deserve further comprehensive support. In that regard, it is my pleasure to note that Tajikistan continues to make a considerable contribution in that area by participating in United Nations peacekeeping operations. Tajikistan is convinced that respect for cultural and religious diversity, as well as dialogue among civilizations, is essential for global peace and understanding. In that regard, we are deeply concerned at the increase in many parts of the world of attempts to denigrate religions, in particular Islam, by misusing the freedom of expression. We strongly condemn such acts. There is no doubt that the establishment of comprehensive legal norms on human rights is one of the major accomplishments of the United Nations. Human rights, along with peace, security and development, are the pillars of the United Nations system. As a signatory to the major international treaties on human rights, Tajikistan consistently implements measures aimed at ensuring the protection and promotion of human rights in the country. With the intent of making a greater contribution towards the implementation of the noble goals of the Human Rights Council, the Government of Tajikistan has decided to present its candidature to that important body for the term 2015-2017. In that regard, we sincerely hope that Member States will render their valuable support to our candidature. Within the context of the withdrawal of the International Security Assistance Force from Afghanistan, scheduled for 2014, the Afghan issue will acquire critical importance not only for the region but for the entire world. We believe that the social and economic development of Afghanistan is key to ensuring stable peace in that country. For that reason, international assistance to Afghanistan should aim first and foremost to fully restore its economy, to further strengthen its social well-being and to create employment. In that regard, the completion of projects to build railroads, motorways, power transmission lines and gas pipelines that connect Afghanistan with Tajikistan and other countries of the region is of the utmost importance. Last March, Tajikistan hosted the fifth Regional Economic Cooperation Conference on Afghanistan, which submitted specific proposals and projects in various areas that will contribute to regional cooperation and include the participation of Afghanistan. As a close neighbour of Afghanistan, Tajikistan has participated actively in the rehabilitation of the Afghan economy and the country’s social infrastructure. We are convinced that the processes of multidimensional regional cooperation should fully involve Afghanistan. The prevention of drug trafficking is one of the important areas requiring cooperative efforts on the part of the international community. It is essential that the international community coordinate measures aimed at reducing both the demand and the supply of drugs, and integrate efforts undertaken at the national level into an international strategy for drug control. Tajikistan has designed its own anti-narcotics strategy, which includes short- and long-term programmes of action, cooperation and interaction on bilateral, regional and multilateral bases, and has begun to develop a new anti-narcotics strategy for the period 2013-2020. The Ottawa Convention calls on the international community to put an end to the suffering and casualties caused by anti-personnel mines, which kill and maim hundreds of people, mostly innocent and defenceless civilians, especially children, and that obstruct economic development and reconstruction. Regrettably, the suffering and misery that anti-personnel landmines cause is a serious burden on those citizens of my country who live along the border with neighbouring States. In that regard, we are committed to the full and effective implementation of the Convention, in cooperation with all parties concerned. Tajikistan is a strong advocate of a mine-free Central Asia. The year 2012 will be remembered as a historic moment. Two decades after their first meeting in Rio de Janeiro, national representatives gathered there again to discuss and identify the most effective ways of achieving sustainable development. The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development reiterated our commitment to a path towards sustainable development and to ensuring an economically, socially and ecologically sustainable future for our planet: the future we want. Ensuring sustainable economic development designed to improve people’s living standards and quality of life is a strategic goal of the Government of Tajikistan. We give special attention to the effective, rational and protective use of natural resources, the primary dimension of a green economy. Making access to energy a priority is the key to achieving all the Millennium Development Goals. It is especially crucial for developing countries and remote mountain territories located far from major infrastructure. My country is no exception to that, and our access to energy is the key to social and economic development and poverty reduction. Regrettably, however, we are compelled to state that due to a lack of mutual understanding and cooperation in the region and to disregard for Tajikistan’s legitimate rights and vital interests, for the past 10 years our country has suffered from a severe power shortage during the winter. Because of its lack of other energy sources, it is vitally important for Tajikistan, which has enormous hydro-energy potential, to develop hydropower in a planned and integrated manner. According to international treaties, Tajikistan has every right to use its natural resources, including hydropower, for the benefit of its people. At the same time, we wish to make it clear from this rostrum, with full responsibility, that in developing its hydropower potential, the Republic of Tajikistan has no intention of exclusively pursuing its own interests at others’ expense. On the contrary, we sincerely advocate mutually beneficial regional cooperation and partnership. It is against that backdrop that we should view Tajikistan’s active cooperation with the World Bank in developing a technical, economic, social and ecological assessment of the Rogun hydropower station, a project of vital importance to my country. Similarly, we expect that while the assessment is being carried out, the parties concerned in the region will abstain from hasty and unconsidered statements and actions that may run counter to existing international agreements and to the spirit of friendship, cooperation and good neighbourliness. Tajikistan attaches great importance to the interests of landlocked developing countries, whose location makes them vulnerable. It is obvious that Tajikistan’s geographic isolation and lack of access to the sea constitute a serious obstacle to its sustainable development. Under the circumstances, it is clear that a network of reliable and unimpeded transportation and communications arteries connecting Tajikistan to the outer world via its neighbours is becoming vitally important. In that regard, we call for the elimination of any artificial and economically unsupported barriers and obstacles to transportation and communication links among the countries of the region that do not contribute to developing and strengthening regional cooperation and partnership. We hope that the relevant United Nations missions in the region will pay due attention to this issue. International Year of Water Cooperation, initiated by Tajikistan, which coincides with the twenthieth anniversary of the proclamation of 22 March as World Water Day. To implement the goals of the International Year of Water Cooperation, Tajikistan proposes holding a number of events in 2013, including, in particular, a General Assembly thematic session and an international conference dedicated to water cooperation issues. In that regard, my country will present a draft resolution for consideration by the Second Committee. I would like to take this opportunity to express our sincere hope that Member States will support this initiative. Tajikistan, as a strong supporter of broad and comprehensive cooperation, believes that only collective, coordinated efforts and effective regional and international cooperation can serve as a foundation for joint success, render the world a better and safer place and make the lives of the people of our planet happier and more dignified.﻿At the outset, on behalf of President Ollanta Humala Tasso and the Government and people of Peru, I wish to congratulate the President of the General Assembly on his election to lead this session, during which we are very honoured to support him as one of the Vice-Presidents. I would also like to congratulate him on his initiative to make the pacific settlement of disputes the central topic of our debate. The pacific settlement of disputes is the fundamental way to eradicate the scourge of war, which, in turn, is the main objective of the Organization and its Charter. The commitment not to resort to the threat or use of force is the cornerstone of international peace and security. Peru reaffi rms its ongoing and resolute commitment to the principles that inspired the birth of the United Nations: multilateralism, the pursuit of international peace and security, solidarity and cooperation. In that context, Peru solemnly affirms its continuing commitment to the pacific settlement of disputes. In that task, the International Court of Justice, as the main judicial organ of the United Nations system, plays a fundamental and, fortunately, increasing role, in particular in Latin America. Peru reaffirms its full respect for the work of the Court and calls on States to turn to it to resolve their differences and to respect and comply with its decisions, pursuant to Chapter XIV of the United Nations Charter. The 123 disputes that had been submitted to the Court as at December 2011 are proof of the fact that the international community is actively committed to the pacific settlement of disputes, to diplomacy and not to war. Recourse to the Court, far from being an unfriendly act, is an eloquent testimony to our desire for peace. We reiterate our faith in multilateralism and deplore the existence of situations to which, to date, our Organization has not been able to find solutions. The latest and most painful one of these, due to the high toll it is taking in human lives, is the crisis in Syria. Peru condemns the use of force and violence in that country, and calls once again on all parties to the conflict to immediately cease hostilities and to initiate a genuine process of dialogue and peacemaking, in the framework of respect for the independence and sovereignty of that country and for the fundamental rights and freedoms of its citizens. We support the efforts undertaken by the Secretary- General and the Arab League to find a negotiated and peaceful solution to the conflict. We would encourage the mission of the Joint Special Representative, Lakhdar Brahimi, to continue its efforts. However, that is not the only outstanding issue. Peru deems regrettable the fact that in more than 60 years our Organization has not been able to find a solution to the legitimate demand of the Palestinian people to establish an independent State and to live in peace within secure and internationally recognized borders. Peru recognizes the Palestinian State, has established diplomatic relations with it and, based on Peru’s historical position since 1947 and on international law, supports its admission as a full Member of the United Nations, without detriment to Israel’s right to its own security. Peru also condemns once again the unfair, illegitimate and illegal economic, financial and commercial blockade imposed against Cuba, to which the Organization has been unable to put an end despite the countless condemnations from the Assembly. We also regret that it has not yet been possible to find a solution to the nearly 200-year-old dispute between Argentina and the United Kingdom regarding the Malvinas Islands. We call upon the parties once again to initiate a dialogue leading to a negotiated solution. To overcome these and other shortcomings and deficiencies of the current international order, it is urgent to adopt measures within our own Organization, the most urgent one probably being a reform of the Security Council aimed at making it a more efficient, transparent, democratic and representative forum. The United Nations must reflect the realities of the twenty- first century and update the current architecture, which remains best suited to the post-war world of 1945. The current scenario requires that developing countries take greater responsibility for preserving peace and security. We deplore the limited progress made in negotiations on this issue. We consider that the time is ripe to relaunch the reform process, and we call upon Member States to spare no effort in bringing this process to a speedy conclusion. As a concrete sign of Peru’s contribution to strengthening the rule of law, it was my pleasure to deposit yesterday the instruments of ratification of the Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance and the Convention on Cluster Munitions, as well as the amendments to the Montreal Protocol regarding ozone-depleting substances. We call on all countries to accede to these instruments, which are aimed at protecting the environment, ensuring respect for human rights and fighting against all forms of impunity. It is a moral duty to ensure that the perpetrators of serious crimes against humanity are duly tried and punished. The rule of law also requires more inclusive societies. Civil, political and social citizenship must encompass everyone equally. Accordingly, Peru has incorporated into its national legislation the provisions of Convention 169 of the International Labour Organization. Since Peru is the first country to adopt these measures, its indigenous peoples will be able to fully exercise their rights and ensure that all investors have obtained the requisite social licence, within the framework of State powers. In spite of all of those efforts, new and diverse threats to the rule of law have emerged. Transnational organized crime, funded mainly by drug trafficking, today constitutes the main threat to democratic societies. The magnitude of this problem requires, more than ever before, combined efforts with an integrated vision of shared responsibility at the global level. It is for that reason that this past June Peru hosted the International Conference of Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Heads of Specialized National Agencies against the World Drug Problem, in an attempt to resume a political dialogue that had been interrupted for nearly 20 years. That valuable opportunity proved to us that amid our diversity there are many more convergences than discrepancies, and that the will exists to intensify cooperation in this area. We are confident that this first step will be further complemented by new initiatives that will guarantee greater exchange of information, a better allocation of resources, and better results in reducing the supply and demand of narcotic drugs as well as in the field of alternative development, a topic that will be addressed next November at an international conference to be hosted by Peru. That Peruvian initiative on the fight against drugs is not the only ref lection of our commitment to multilateralism and integration. Since June, Peru has held the presidency pro tempore of the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR). We want to see democracy consolidated throughout South America. Many lives have been lost during the long journey towards consolidating democracy in our region. For that reason, we will not be deterred by any circumstance that may threaten that undertaking. In our capacity as President Pro Tempore of UNASUR, we reiterate that democracy will remain an essential requirement for integration and cooperation in South America. We also hope that South America will become a zone of peace, without exclusions. It is already a nuclear-weapon-free zone, and we will work tirelessly so that it can soon be a zone free of anti-personnel mines. The money currently spent on arms must be redirected towards development and overcoming poverty and inequality. Peru is peace-loving country and a staunch defender of disarmament. At the international level, we are party to the main disarmament and non-proliferation treaties. Furthermore, Peru hosts the headquarters of the Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean. We promote confidence-building measures with neighbouring countries, especially measures aimed at conventional disarmament to favour the development of our peoples. In that context, we cannot but welcome with enthusiasm and high expectations the efforts made by the Government of President Santos Calderón of Colombia to open the path of dialogue in order to end long years of violence, as justly claimed by the people of Colombia. Peru expresses its best wishes for the success of that initiative. From the South American perspective, we also aspire to build bridges with all the regions of the world. In such a spirit, Peru will in a few days welcome heads of State and Government of South American and Arab countries to the third Summit of South American and Arab Countries. The Summit has become an important instrument in bringing the two regions closer together and, through it, its member countries have opened a channel for dialogue and political understanding at the highest level. That will afford us the opportunity to develop common interests in areas such as trade, investment and culture, all for the benefit of our peoples. Thanks to appropriate macroeconomic policies, Peru has continued to grow, reaching a growth rate in 2011 of 6.92 per cent and a 5.7 per cent average rate over the past 10 years. Despite those good results, wide sectors of the population do not fully participate in the benefits of economic growth. Hence, it is time to ensure growth with social inclusion, as President Ollanta Humala Tasso has pointed out since the beginning of his Administration. The new vision that Peru promotes is oriented towards further economic growth and democratic stability as it expands and maximizes social well-being and harmonizes productive activities with environmental preservation. In Peru’s view, starting with the Rio+20 Conference on Sustainable Development, the establishment of the post-2015 development agenda must achieve a convergence of the processes of the Millennium Development Goals with the processes of the sustainable development goals. Peru’s commitment to the United Nations is long-standing and deep. Allow me to conclude by honouring here to three prominent Peruvian diplomats who have held the highest responsibilities within the Organization — Ambassador Javier Pérez de Cuellar, Secretary-General from 1982 to 1991; Ambassador Victor Andrés Belaúnde, President of the General Assembly at its fourteenth session, from 1959 to 1960; and Ambassador José Luis Bustamante y Rivero, President of the International Court of Justice from 1967 to 1969. The recognition and responsibilities that those individuals received from the international community show that Peru has always been committed to peace and to the observance of international law. I am pleased to see the Permanent Representative of Peru presiding over the debate this evening. As a co-founder of some of the main regional forums, such as the Andean Community, the Union of South American Nations and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, Peru has always been a standard-bearer for integration and for positive, respectful relations with all countries of the world and, in particular, with the countries of our region and neighbouring countries. As a basis of that policy, Peru has always trusted — and will continue to place its trust — in the strength and primacy of international law and in the peaceful settlement of disputes. It is with that conviction that the Government of President Ollanta Humala Tasso reiterates its staunch adherence to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.﻿At the outset, I wish to convey thanks and appreciation to the Secretary- General for his true commitment to the fulfilment of the purposes and principles of the United Nations. The United Nations and its General Assembly are a unique tool, the one and only global forum that provides room for dialogue to discuss strategic visions and to seek policy-level solutions to the problems that we are jointly confronted with at the international, regional and national levels. It is our obligation and moral duty to search together for ways of bringing peace and prosperity to all humankind. Conflicts do not stop at borders. The world we live in is so interconnected that every problem is a problem for all of us and every threat is a threat faced by all. At the same time, every success is of benefit to all of us. Besides numerous indisputable benefits, the process of globalization introduces new challenges. I will mention just three challenges encountered in the early twenty-first century: the global economic crisis, environmental change and man-made threats, including terrorism and weapons of mass destruction. We need global partnership and cooperation. We need strong multilateralism. We need a proactive United Nations that can lead effectively on all fronts: political, economic, military, social and civil. We need a trustworthy United Nations that people can rely upon to save them from the scourge of war. We need to work together towards our common goal: peace, security and dignity for all. The Organization’s primary objective is to preserve peace and security in the world. We have been through an extremely challenging year full of unexpected twists and turns, including some severe new conflicts, grave violations of human rights, disease, famine, terrorism and extremism, as well as other threats to peace and security, which, unfortunately, we cannot always successfully prevent. Attacks have even occurred against diplomats and diplomatic missions, which we resolutely condemn as totally unacceptable. It is the way we go about resolving constantly occurring conflicts and the effectiveness of our responses to new threats that tells us how successful we are in meeting the objectives of the United Nations. Violence can never be the right way to settle a dispute. Open dialogue, respect for mutual differences and a joint search for solutions by peaceful means is the only way to proceed; there is no alternative. Therefore, we appreciate the appeal to concentrate specifically on that crucial aspect of international relations. We are all obliged under the Charter of the United Nations to resolve disputes by peaceful means so that peace and security are not at risk. The Charter provides us with a range of options, including negotiation, enquiry, mediation, conciliation, arbitration and other peaceful means, which must be used effectively. Mediation under the auspices of the United Nations is key to resolving conflicts by peaceful means. Reinforcing United Nations mediation capacities, confidence-building, improved implementation of the Charter and enhanced respect for its provisions are central. While the nature of conflicts evolves and changes, their essence remains the same — achieving goals by violence. I refer not just to military battles. Famine and thirst have even more devastating consequences than weapons. Unfair distribution of wealth, social imbalances, poverty and the feeling of injustice remain breeding grounds for conflicts and disputes. Persons whose basic needs are met do not seek conflict; rather, they seek ways of making the best of their lives. In that context, I think that prevention is the most effective tool for ensuring peace, sustainable growth and a life of dignity. It is crucial to eliminate the primary causes of conflicts, including through poverty reduction, sustainable development, respect for human rights, the rule of law and respect for its instruments, building of democratic institutions, and arms control. Those are the basic building blocks of peace and prosperity. The United Nations, with its multipurpose focus, possesses the potential to effectively assist its Members in all those areas. But it must be adequately empowered to do so. However, we still differ considerably on what the United Nations should do, and how. Terrorism poses an imminent threat to every one of us, yet we are unable to find common grounds to describe its characteristics. Climate change has brought about crucial changes with concrete impacts on agricultural production, yet the production of greenhouse gases and emissions does not decline. The gap between the wealthy and the poor has been growing. An increasingly important role is being played by non-State actors — multinational corporations and speculative investors. The crisis has shown that even the strongest economies are vulnerable. They are vulnerable when they live on credit, when the moral hazard goes beyond what is sustainable. The crisis has shown that peace has its limits in every society, whether that society is more or less advanced. It is important for the global economy that the strongest economies are stable and, in particular, that they are aware of their responsibility for global development and the sustainability of social stability in the world. This is not only about the application of the principle of social solidarity; it is about the self-preservation of humankind. We therefore have to pursue a common target: to transform the United Nations into an effective Organization with a leading role in a new international environment. We need a political willingness on the part of all Members and a clear vision to adapt the United Nations to the global demands of the twenty- first century. One of the instruments for preventing conflicts is the elimination of poverty and ensuring sustainable development for all, and in all aspects. The United Nations has the necessary tools in its hands. At a time of fiscal constraints, we have to use the existing tools more effectively. We do not need to create new parallel or duplicate structures. At the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), we agreed that we needed an inclusive, strong multilateral system that will be able to effectively address threats in the area of sustainable development. Such a system is crucial for enduring peace and, of course, for security. We support Sustainable Energy for All, an initiative launched by the Secretary-General. In the spirit of the initiative, we emphasize, among other things, the positive aspects of the use of nuclear energy in the energy and health care sectors. I am convinced that priority investments in research to increase the operational safety and security of nuclear power plants would be more useful than massive investment in the closure of functioning power plants. Slovakia is prepared to intensively and constructively cooperate with partners in order to maximize the effective functioning of the United Nations system in the economic, social, environmental and other areas. We support strengthening the Economic and Social Council and more effective cooperation of the Council with the General Assembly and other entities across the United Nations system. Slovakia takes seriously its moral duty to help developing countries and countries in distress. We have less than three years to go to accomplish the United Nations Millennium Development Goals. We need to step up our efforts. As a donor country, Slovakia contributes its share to addressing the pressing problems of global development. Despite its tight budget, Slovakia increases its total contribution to official development assistance every year. A secure and stable environment conducive to development cannot be achieved without effective arms control and universal disarmament as the fundamental instruments of conflict prevention. Slovakia is an advocate of a comprehensive, universal and binding arms trade treaty. Our objective is to curb irresponsible dealing in arms and to prevent their transfer to the hands of terrorists, criminals and other illicit groups. I regret that the years-long efforts of States, in cooperation with civil society, were not crowned with success at the July 2012 Conference on the Arms Trade Treaty. I believe that further negotiations will lead to a consensus on an effective agreement. A world free of nuclear weapons is one of the priorities long pursued by the international community. Although we have made some progress in this respect in recent years, there are still countries that are not parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We appreciate that a conference on a Middle East zone free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction has been scheduled for December 2012 in Helsinki. We believe that despite the regrettable turmoil in the region and the unwillingness of some countries to cooperate, we will overcome the differences and jointly bring the conference to a successful conclusion, for the sake of our common goal, namely, peace and security in the Middle East without the fear of nuclear weapons. Success of the conference would also support long- lasting efforts to drive away concerns over the Iranian nuclear programme. Rocket tests performed by Iran do not contribute to belief that its nuclear programme serves a peaceful purpose. With regard to further improvements in the work of peacebuilding missions and increasing their effectiveness, I would like to mention three aspects that I consider crucial: first, cooperation among United Nations missions; secondly, the protection of civilians and the contributions to monitoring human rights; and, thirdly, the need to prepare a strategy for the transition from peacekeeping to peacebuilding, that is, increased effectiveness in the implementation of security sector reform. More intensive cooperation among peacekeeping missions will allow for effective sharing of funds, equipment and personnel between neighbouring missions, as well as contribute to improving the capabilities of United Nations peacekeeping forces to adequately respond to unforeseen situations. The protection of civilians is one of the main objectives under the mandates of peacekeeping operations. It will enable the restoration of political processes in a country, including the implementation of measures aimed at the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of combatants, as well as of ordinary people affected by the conflict, including children. As the road from conflict to enduring peace is complicated, it is important that we prepare strategies for the peacekeeping forces to anticipate and transfer responsibility for peacekeeping in a host country with the aim of eliminating duplicate instruments and procedures. Last year, the international community devoted considerable attention and funds to support Afghanistan on its road towards responsibility for its own security and for meeting its obligations. Afghanistan remains the top-priority foreign military operation for Slovakia. Our troops will stay in Afghanistan as long as necessary. Security and stability also depend on a stable economy. Therefore we also wish to intensify our involvement in the area of development assistance. Afghanistan remains one of the three primary recipients of Slovakia’s official development assistance. At the same time, we support the central role of the United Nations and the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan in capacity-building and stabilization in Afghanistan. Wherever in the world human lives are at risk, the international community should be prepared to take resolute action. Allow me to express my deepest regret over the thousands of victims of the conflict in Syria. The Slovak Republic has joined the initiative requesting that the most serious crimes under international law committed in Syria be investigated by the International Criminal Court. The primary responsibility for the protection of its citizens is always borne by the Government and democratic institutions of a country. The aim is to build a country governed by the rule of law, respecting international principles and at the same time reflecting traditional common law. Slovakia is committed to the United Nations principles set out in the Charter. We believe that the key to resolving global problems in today’s interconnected world is an inclusive and effective multilateralism. Global threats to security, the economy, the environment or society know no borders and are so extensive that no country and no regional organization can alone respond to or defend against them effectively. We believe that, together, we will make progress on our agenda during the current session of the General Assembly. That is what our citizens expect from us.﻿On behalf of the Government and people of the Commonwealth of Dominica, I would like to congratulate Mr. Jeremić on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to wish him every success. We also express our appreciation and gratitude to his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for the able manner in which he presided over the sixty- sixth session. The sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly has convened at a time when we face myriad challenges — the impact of climate change, civil conflicts, hunger and starvation, poverty, HIV/AIDS and chronic non-communicable diseases. Those challenges, however, are equally matched by the tremendous opportunities created by the rapid advancement in science and technology and the unprecedented level of international cooperation. We therefore need the political will to harness those opportunities for the benefit of our peoples. That would necessarily require the transformation of multilateral institutions, such as the United Nations, including its organs and agencies, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, to reflect equity and inclusion. Those changes must be supported by a shift in our systems of production and consumption and by a new economic system, built on the principles of fairness and differentiated treatment on the basis of the unique challenges of countries, especially the vulnerability of small island developing States (SIDS). I am confident that, with such an approach, we will be able to overcome those challenges in a functioning multilateral system. The unsustainable consumption and production systems that continue to deplete the world’s resources and that simultaneously contribute to global warming remain a major threat to the survival of those of us who live close to the world’s oceans. The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) was a commendable effort by the international community to take stock of the human impact on the Earth’s resources and to commit to reversing the present trend. The outcome document, entitled “The future we want” (resolution 66/288, annex), falls short of our expectations. However, it remains a work in progress and presents a useful platform for the ongoing discussion of multilateral resolutions to the growing concern of sustainable development. More important, the outcome document is indicative of what the international community can achieve when collective energies are harnessed to present an international response. The Commonwealth of Dominica is pleased that Rio+20 reaffirmed an international commitment to support small island developing States. We especially welcome the agreement to convene the third Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of SIDS in 2014 in the Pacific region. In fact, we are of the view that the third Global Conference will provide an opportunity for the implementation of the outcomes of Rio+20, the Barbados Programme of Action and the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action. As a small island developing State, Dominica is committed to the fundamental principle of environmental sustainability. That is clearly demonstrated by our approach to sustainable development as the “Nature Island”. The sustainable use of our natural resources has contributed to our tourism product, while at the same time blessing our citizens with the most beautiful place on Earth to call home. Notwithstanding that, our great vulnerability continues to put us at the mercy of countries that promote and employ unsustainable practices. The challenges include an international economic system dominated by the strong and the powerful that pays little or no regard to the vulnerable. If multilateralism is to survive, we need to focus on correcting that lopsided system, which is destined to annihilate SIDS. Dominica’s very vulnerability to the effects of global warming underscores our commitment to a multilateral approach aimed at combating climate change. The impact of climate change continues to manifest itself in a number of ways, resulting in greater challenges to the survival of SIDS. The failure to date to reach a legally binding outcome on climate change is a cause of grave concern. While the debate continues, the challenges to our islands increase. We are encouraged, however, by the fact that the recently concluded climate talks in Bangkok prepared a fertile ground for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Doha later this year. Nevertheless, Dominica continues to stress the importance of extending and amending the Kyoto Protocol before it lapses. The timely creation of a road map for a new legally binding document must be treated as a matter of urgency. We look forward to the Doha talks, of which we have great expectations. One major contributor to climate change is the consumption of fossil fuels for the production of electricity. The importation of fossil fuels also has the greatest impact on the economic vulnerability of many small island developing States. Addressing energy issues is therefore central to responding to the challenges of climate change and sustainable development. Today, there is still a significant portion of many remote and rural island communities that has little or no access to modern and affordable energy services. The low-carbon economies in SIDS therefore provide an opportunity to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, while decreasing dependence on imported fossil fuels. By generating their own energy from natural renewable sources, SIDS will be able to achieve energy security. The savings realized from avoiding the cost of importing fossil fuels could be used for adaptation and developmental needs. For that and other reasons, the SIDS Sustainable Energy Initiative, known as SIDS DOCK, was instituted. The Initiative currently provides a global platform for SIDS to pursue their renewable energy ambitions by building capacity and by providing technical support to member States. The Governments of Denmark and Japan, the United Nations Development Programme and the World Bank continue to play a significant role in making energy independence a reality for SIDS. The recent partnership with the Clinton Foundation has given new hope to a number of islands that are vigorously pursuing their renewable energy aspirations. Dominica has the honour of serving as Chair of SIDS DOCK. My delegation, on its own behalf as well as that of SIDS DOCK, fully endorses the Barbados Declaration on Achieving Sustainable Energy for All in Small Island Developing States, signed by ministers and other heads of delegation of the Alliance of Small Island States at the ministerial conference held in Bridgetown in May. The commitments made and targets set to increase the percentage of renewable energy and increase energy efficiency in energy portfolios are testimony to our region’s commitment to the Secretary- General’s Sustainable Energy for All initiative. We congratulate the Secretary-General on launching the initiative, which SIDS DOCK joined and is committed to actively supporting. Dominica, the “Nature Island”, continues to pursue the development of its geothermal resources. We are pleased to announce that the recently concluded test- drilling in the Roseau Valley has confirmed that our geothermal resources have the potential to supply our domestic needs and provide an exportable surplus. That will allow us to move away from the importation of fossil fuel for the generation of electricity within the next five years, while also reducing the cost of electricity for our people. At the same time, the development of a power plant for export to the French territories of Guadeloupe and Martinique will provide a source of revenue for the island. Negotiations are ongoing and expected to conclude by the end of 2012. Work is expected to commence on the first power plant in the first quarter of 2013. Dominica’s energy initiative has the potential to transform its economy and to improve the quality of life of its people. The Government of Dominica, as trustee of the island’s resources on behalf of its people, is therefore ensuring that it manages that process responsibly. We have sought and are receiving assistance from some of the most reputable consultants in the world. The support of the Clinton Climate Initiative has allowed us to navigate through the complex challenges of the project. We therefore wish to express our gratitude to President Bill Clinton for his continued support in that initiative. We anticipate that, by 2017, all of our electricity needs will be met by a combination of sources, namely, hydro and geothermal. By 2020 we expect to be exporting electricity to our neighbouring islands via submarine cables. That, coupled with our sustainable development practices, means that Dominica will go beyond carbon neutrality to being carbon-negative by the year 2020. Like Dominica, many SIDS are pursuing national renewable energy initiatives, and more than 20 SIDS have made pledges under the Sustainable Energy for All initiative. However, unsustainable debt and the lack of technology make it impossible for them to achieve their goals. We therefore invite other developed countries and the international community to join the Governments of Denmark and Japan and the Clinton Climate Initiative in the SIDS DOCK partnership, and the Government of Norway in its Energy for All initiative, in providing critical support to SIDS. The global community should heed the prolonged, and in some cases recent, cries of peoples around the world. The response should not be selective or be based on narrow national interests. Injustice anywhere and in any form should not be tolerated. The so-called Arab Spring has been one expression of people’s discontent. The international community must support the wishes of people as they struggle to create their own democratic systems, driven by their aspirations. The recent spate of attacks on United States missions and personnel, or attacks on the diplomatic facilities of any country, does nothing to advance the causes of those who may be marginalized or who feel offended by other democratic systems. Regardless of what may have led to the protests, the Commonwealth of Dominica condemns those unjustified attacks, which resulted in the unfortunate loss of life of United States Ambassador Christopher Stevens and his colleagues. While we are heartened by the attention that has been given to the recent outcries from some corners of the globe, we remain concerned that in our part of the world the cries of people who have been suffering for decades have aroused less sympathy. The suffering of our brothers and sisters in the Republic of Haiti persists, much to the concern of Dominica and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). We are grateful to those countries that have responded and to others that have supported and continue to support the rebuilding efforts in Haiti. However, we are still far from assisting the people of Haiti to reach a state of normalcy where they can enjoy the basic necessities of life. We therefore call upon the international community to heed the cry of Haiti and to provide support in the rebuilding efforts. The Caribbean region also continues to witness the unheeded call for the discontinuation of the economic, financial and trade embargo on our brothers and sisters in the Republic of Cuba. We call upon the Government of the United States to allow the people of Cuba to be fully integrated into the global trading system, thereby enabling them to improve their lives and allowing the world to benefit from their tremendous contributions, especially in the area of science and technology. The international trade, transfer and use of conventional arms, weapons, munitions and ammunition continue to threaten international peace and security. Dominica, like its sister nations in CARICOM, is not immune to that debilitating phenomenon. Our region continues to be affected by an increase in gangs and violent criminal activities born out of the trade and transfer of illicit arms and drugs throughout the Caribbean region, from North to South America. We are therefore perturbed that, despite four weeks of rigorous deliberations and intense negotiations, the United Nations Conference on the Arms Trade Treaty did not result in the finalization of the treaty. However, like the rest of our CARICOM colleagues, we believe that the 26 July text from the Chair of the Conference provides a blueprint for a possible final document. As leaders, the task is now ours to finalize a legally binding document in the interests of the protection of our people.Dominica remains optimistic that that can be achieved during the current session of the General Assembly, and we reaffirm our commitment to the realization of a robust arms trade treaty. Dominica would like to take this opportunity to applaud the role and efforts of the United Nations in combating the proliferation of small arms and light weapons in the global community. The long- term socioeconomic development of many nations, particularly SIDS such as Dominica, is severely compromised because of the proliferation of small arms and light weapons in our region. Associated with that illicit trade is the trafficking of narcotics through the Caribbean region, from South to North America, which has presented new challenges to the maintenance of peace and security in our region. It underscores the urgent need for a legally binding international instrument that addresses the control and monitoring of the illicit trade in small arms among States and non-State actors. In conclusion, Dominica remains committed to collaborating with the United Nations and all its agencies, as well as with all Member States, to strengthen the mission of this noble body that, notwithstanding its imperfections, is critical to maintaining world peace and security. We reaffirm our confidence in the United Nations system as the ultimate negotiating and deliberative body for addressing the major challenges confronting the world. May we all rise to the occasion and resolve to bring peace, security and prosperity to every corner of the globe. Before I finish, Sir, I hope that, given that I am the last speaker, you will allow me the latitude to address a word of thanks to the interpreters and the rest of the United Nations staff for their hard work over the past week. We know that their task has not been easy, and we appreciate their contribution. May God bless the United Nations. May God bless us all.As I address the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, I would like first of all to convey the warm greetings and solidarity of the people of Nicaragua and its Government of national reconciliation and unity, led by Comrade President Comandante Daniel Ortega Saavedra, who wishes us success in our work. The changes now taking place in science, economy, geopolitics, technology, ecology and culture are truly revolutions in the life of all human societies around the world, but they raise doubts about the effectiveness of international organizations in conducting global affairs. The situation in the world today proves that when governance is conceived and conducted from the perspective of global capitalism — savage, as it was called by His Holiness Pope John Paul II — instead of becoming a factor for positive transformation, as we were led to believe it would, it can lead us to the edge of civilization. The vertiginous development of speculative venture capital in developed countries has reduced the role of the State in public affairs. The market imposes itself in all areas — the economy, politics, culture, society, individuals and the mass media — thus strengthening the influence of the interests of giant corporations involved in food production, communications, medicine and the military-industrial complex. They are the real power in decisions having a global impact; their decisions determine the course of many important events related to the economy and to peace. That is totally contrary to the idea that gave rise to our Organization. That situation is aggravated by the growing sense that, increasingly, well-being and world power are completely in the hands of market and finance elites, that the people’s standards of living are dramatically crumbling and that confidence in the capacity of all Governments to solve the most pressing problems is decreasing at an accelerating pace. The impact of the economic and financial crisis on the centres of power of global capitalism is provoking political and social changes with great international repercussions. The United States and European countries, paradigms of that egotistical model, are at a loss to find solutions to their structural problems. They drag their citizens and the world into unemployment, social insecurity and greater poverty. Thus the exclusive nature of the privatization of the State and its subjection to market forces, speculation and financial fraud becomes clear, demonstrating the urgent need for equitable distribution of wealth worldwide. Many outstanding thinkers describe the scenario as a struggle between the market and the State. However, the paradox is that the very State that wanted to find the paradigm for development in the greater comfort of its citizens is one that today, without political scruples or ethics, develops a new neoliberal programme, disguised as necessary adjustments to save the economy and defend the citizens. That reveals that in developed countries, the economy, the market and political power are the same thing. In them, the State has evolved only to merge into one programme the interests of speculative financial capital, of large global corporations and industries and of the military-industrial complex. We are certain that the nature of these adjustments is permanent, and that it is a new economic agenda that will direct the greatest concentration of power to the highest global level in the quest to dictate the path of a new capitalist model that in all spheres of life is ever more concentrated. The world of 1945, after the Second World War, gave rise to all the institutions that constitute global governance, beginning with our Organization. That world no longer exists. Thus today as never before it is imperative that we re-establish a philosophy of firm and lasting world peace and of economic development for the benefit of all the peoples of the world — that is, the philosophy that inspired the founders of the United Nations system, the philosophy of global governability and management. In that connection, we reiterate the urgency of making progress in the reform of the United Nations system, or rather in its reinvention. Nicaraguans have the honour of having taken the initiative in this matter. Our brother, the former Foreign Minister of Nicaragua and President of the the General Assembly at its sixty- third session, Father Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann, together with President Daniel Ortega Saavedra and other great present-day thinkers, have taken on the task of developing a plan for the reinvention of the United Nations system. We say “reinvent” because the present Organization no longer permits reforms; those that have been proposed so far have not made progress, due the policy of some permanent members of the Security Council. In the name of the people of Nicaragua, I invite all to strongly push for that proposal, in order to make a reality of a new Charter of the United Nations that guarantees democratization of the Organization. Peace is a supreme value and a condition in which human activity can develop in a stable manner beneficial for all. However, some developments establish a dangerous path. We consider the economic, commercial and financial blockade of Cuba a f lagrant violation of international law and the most basic norms of peaceful coexistence. Furthermore, today it is claimed that that blockade is based on the arbitrary, groundless and unilateral inclusion of that fraternal country in a list of States sponsoring international terrorism. We demand the immediate and unconditional end of that crime against humanity, which constitutes an affront to the conscience of our peoples. We also demand the immediate and unconditional release of the five Cuban patriots who are unjustly kept in prison in the United States of America. We demand respect for the sovereignty and independence of the fraternal Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, which faces a wave of conspiratorial actions seeking to destabilize and destroy the democratic plan of the Bolivarian Revolution and the popular interests, thus undermining the enormous social and economic gains obtained by the Venezuelan people through great effort and courage, with the distinguished leadership of President Hugo Chávez Frias. The peace process in Colombia should be fully supported in order for the people to start on a path of true social progress. International law should be given unrestricted support as regards the inviolability of Ecuador’s diplomatic Mission in the United Kingdom. We also reaffirm our support of Argentina’s sovereign rights over the Malvinas Islands and the right of Puerto Rico to obtain its full independence. Bearing in mind the information disseminated daily by the world’s main communication media, it has escaped no one’s attention that there is a risk of widespread war in the Middle East. The situation in Syria is unacceptable. We strongly condemn the acts of terrorism that have cost the lives of high-level officials of President Bashar Al-Assad’s Government and of the population of Syria. Nicaragua recalls that it is a form of aggression that was already condemned by the International Court of Justice in 1986 in the case of The Republic of Nicaragua v. The United States of America. It is evident that the mediation promoted by the United Nations is going nowhere, simply because it is being blocked by the members of NATO and their allies with interests in the region. A peaceful solution with regard to the Islamic Republic of Iran should be promoted. We need to resolve without delay the aspirations of the Palestinian people by supporting the peace negotiations and their legitimate right to their own State and to be part of the United Nations. We strongly condemn the terrorist acts in Benghazi, Libya, on 11 September, in which United States Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other United States citizens lost their lives, just as we condemn any act of terrorism that is an assault on civilization, culture, religion and justice anywhere in the world. We welcome the recent positive developments with regard to the relationship between China/Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China. We have to address the legitimate aspirations of Taiwan to participate more broadly in all United Nations specialized agencies and organs. We reaffirm our commitment to total and complete disarmament and international security. A world free of nuclear arms and weapons of mass destruction is indispensable. On a different matter, Central America is a transit zone for the drugs produced in the South and that find in the North, in the United States, their largest consumer market and the largest money-laundering operation for the traffic in drugs. Central America has expressed the need for destination countries to eradicate drug trafficking and consumption within their borders, using all the technology and resources at their disposal. Likewise, we have agreed to demand economic support for all of Central America in its constant struggle against organized crime and drug trafficking. However, the slow pace or lack of commitment to that issue does irreparable damage, especially to the peoples of Mesoamerica, who have to allocate enormous resources for the prohibition and interception of drugs, consequently delaying our social investments. In that scenario, which is not very encouraging and in which we are far from being triumphant, Latin America and the Caribbean are making great strides in strengthening their economic, political, social and cultural integration and unity through the Central American Integration System, the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States. Our regional process of integration and unity through the Central American Integration System advances consistently and on solid ground, based on the common objectives that further the peace and economic and social development of Central Americans. Our model for integration and unity is also evident in the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America, which has a component of fair trade, complementarity, cooperation and solidarity among its members. Another expression of this process is the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, which was established in 2011 and is convincing proof of our integrationist calling. The principles and purposes of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries constitute a broad common platform, which has world reach and is contributing to the development of a multipolar world and to the strengthening of peace and international security. In that context, our Government of national reconciliation and unity, presided over by Comandante Daniel Ortega Saavedra, and our people are achieving important results in the struggle against poverty. That strengthens the process of restoring rights, which translates into more health, better education, more productive and service-oriented infrastructure, and a higher living standard for all our citizens. Very soon we will have transformed our energy matrix, using sources of renewable energy, so that by 2017, 94 per cent of energy consumed will be renewable energy. We have decided to take the necessary steps for the construction of the great inter-ocean canal through Nicaragua for ships weighing more than 250,000 tons. Climate change and all its related effects constitute one of the most formidable challenges of our time. The developed countries should comply with their legally binding environmental commitments. The valuable natural resources of our planet must not be privatized in favour of a few. Furthermore, in times of crisis, we can see that we run the risk of not reaching all of the Millennium Development Goals that we proposed to reach by 2015. We cannot allow that to happen. The commitments of the developed countries to allocate 0.7 per cent of their gross national product to official development assistance must be honoured. Another grave problem is that of food insecurity. The food crisis is a serious obstacle in the struggle against poverty and hunger. We must work together to universally restore that right to the peoples. Our societies are struggling with the urgency of satisfying their most basic needs, with equitable profits from the benefits of development and with the importance of developing democracies based on representation and direct participation of the citizens. That is a road whose specificities must be respected without interference of any kind. Dangers lurk and have resulted in events that do not contribute to our political stability. Coups d’état, such as those attempted in Venezuela, Bolivia and Ecuador or those carried out in Honduras and Paraguay, must be condemned and rejected, regardless of how they are executed or attempted. We cannot allow coups to once again become entrenched as methods for a political solution to conflicts, whether within any country or between States. We cannot ignore that the process of concentration of global power has repercussions in the political and social systems governing our societies. The final blow is intended to destroy or break up popular social movements in order to eliminate States and Governments that do not align themselves with the neoliberal model. Therefore, in the progressive or revolutionary national projects manifested through the nation States of our Latin and Caribbean America, our citizens, our peoples, are called to resist and to raise banners of peace, dignity, identity and national sovereignty. We are constructing a new world governance with our work to transform international institutions. We are strengthening a new world governance by incorporating more and more citizens in the work of building this new world to which we aspire. The present global order and its institutions are at an impasse. The only headway being made is through the new effort I am describing to deeply transform the economy, politics, society and culture. That effort alone will endure as the fruit of the best of our human nature and our history. The other world, the world that refuses change, the world of war and human misery, the world of the apocalypse being announced on television as a novelty, will fail. The hope and the future for which we struggle will grow and shine on its remains. ﻿I extend warm congratulations to Mr. Jeremić and his country, Serbia, on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty- seventh session. My delegation is confident that, under his leadership, this session will address all burning issues on its agenda. I assure him of my delegation’s cooperation and support. I also wish to thank his predecessor for presiding over the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. Similarly, I wish to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon on assuming his second mandate as Secretary-General at the beginning of this year. The unresolved conflicts around the world demand commitment and resolve from us all in order to find durable solutions. I therefore commend the President for choosing the theme for the debate at this session, namely, “Adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. Namibia firmly believes that, if we all dedicate ourselves to finding lasting solutions to conflicts by peaceful means, our collective efforts will be successful. There is no better way to achieve peace than by upholding the cardinal principle of the peaceful settlement of disputes, as provided for under Chapter VI of the United Nations Charter. In that regard, we should renew the original commitment to peace and progress as essential values of the United Nations. Namibia believes that respect for the sovereign equality of States, territorial integrity and independence constitute the pillars of international law and, indeed, the bedrock of peaceful relations among nations. The violation of any of those principles poses a serious threat to international peace and security. Regional and subregional organizations are important partners in solving conflicts in affected areas throughout the world. Their contribution to conflict resolution is provided for under the United Nations Charter. There is therefore a compelling need for the United Nations to take into account the views of regional organizations in the areas of mediation and peacemaking. Such institutions should be fully supported in finding lasting solutions to violent conflicts around the world. In Africa, since its inception, the African Union Peace and Security Council has cooperated with the United Nations Security Council towards those shared goals of conflict resolution. Similarly, the subregion of the Southern African Development Community has established initiatives to resolve political conflicts in the region through mediation. However, we are concerned about the deteriorating security situation in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo. We therefore urge the international community to support the regional initiative aimed at resolving that conflict and to provide humanitarian assistance to displaced persons. We call on all neighbouring countries to work together with the Congolese authorities to help resolve the conflict and to ensure that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is not violated. In Madagascar, we urge the Malagasy political actors to expedite the full implementation of the road map leading to the holding of free, fair, inclusive and credible elections. With regard to the Sudan and South Sudan, Namibia calls on the two countries to resolve all outstanding issues peacefully. In the Darfur region of the Sudan, we urge the Government and the other parties concerned to find a negotiated and peaceful solution to the conflict. We denounce the unconstitutional changes of Government in Mali and Guinea-Bissau that took place, respectively, in March and April this year. Equally, Namibia resolutely rejects the secessionist attempts in northern Mali and the destruction of ancient shrines in Timbuktu. We wish to commend the role played by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in helping to resolve the conflicts in those two countries. At the same time, we urge the international community to provide support and assistance to ECOWAS. Namibia welcomes the recent positive political developments in Somalia, including the election of His Excellency Mr. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud as President of that country. I congratulate him and wish him well in the noble task of bringing normalcy and stability to that sister country. The international community should continue to support the people of Somalia as they embark upon the path to rebuild their country. For many decades, the people of Western Sahara have been denied their inalienable right to self-determination and independence. Namibia reiterates its call for the immediate and unconditional implementation of the United Nations Settlement Plan, leading to the holding of a free and fair referendum in Western Sahara. Equally, we wish to reaffirm our unequivocal support for the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people to self-determination and national independence on the basis of the relevant United Nations resolutions. Each year during the general debate, the majority of States Members of the United Nations express their concern over the continued economic, commercial and financial blockade unilaterally imposed against the Republic of Cuba, with its adverse effect on the Cuban people. Thus, Namibia reiterates its call for the immediate and unconditional lifting of the embargo against Cuba. Namibia attaches great importance to sustainable development and the search for the best ways to mitigate the adverse effects of climate change. In that regard, we will continue to actively cooperate with the international community to address climate change. In that context, Namibia seeks the support of Member States in hosting the secretariat of the Green Climate Fund in our capital city, Windhoek If successful, that would provide an opportunity for a developing country to host a United Nations agency of great importance. Given the opportunity, Namibia stands ready to discharge its obligations arising from hosting the Green Climate Fund secretariat. We count on Member States’ support. The reform of the United Nations and its principal organs should seek to strengthen the Organization in order to make it more efficient, effective and responsive to the needs of all its Members. In that context, strengthening the role and authority of the General Assembly is of paramount importance. Equally, the reform of the Security Council is at the core of the wider United Nations reform, given its primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Namibia reiterates its support for the common African position on the reform of the Security Council. Let us rededicate ourselves to the principle of the settlement of international disputes by peaceful means in order to save current and succeeding generations from the scourge of war and build a prosperous future for our children.﻿May I offer my warm congratulations to Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election to the position of President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. Following the experiences of recent years, the world is poised at a difficult moment in its development. The weakness of international institutions in the face of economic, security, humanitarian and environmental problems is indisputable, and yet those institutions were designed to resolve such problems. That also applies to the Security Council, especially in the context of the conflict in Syria. It is also clear that international financial institutions are not capable of handling the destructive volatility of financial markets, which results from the opaqueness and arbitrariness of powerful private interests operating in this area. The signals coming from Asia point to an undiminished number of tensions and disputes. We have been following with concern the tension resulting from the Iranian nuclear programme. We are worried by the increasingly tangible threat of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and of an intensified arms race among the Gulf States. The results of the Mission in Afghanistan are not entirely satisfactory. We must learn a lesson from the shortcomings of the strategy devised for that country thus far. The approach that suggests the military option first is not a suitable method for resolving complex internal conflicts. The hopes raised by the Arab Spring have been justified, but only to a certain extent. The civil war in Syria and the resulting toll in lives, as well as the United Nations and Arab League’s inability to contain it, cast a shadow across the entire region. The tragic death of American diplomats and the circumstances of their death should also prompt ref lection among all those persuaded of the automatic nature of democratic transformations. When we signed the United Nations Charter, which is the constitution of the contemporary international order and testifies to our faith in a better world, we pledged our readiness to make concerted efforts and cooperate in pursuit of the ideals invoked in it. One of the main paths to a more secure and fair world is the peaceful resolution of disputes and conflicts. That concept is the main theme of this year’s session of the Assembly, and the choice of that subject is timely. In recent years, we have seen numerous occasions in which a commitment pursuant to Article 2 of the Charter was ignored, with very dramatic consequences. The best example is the crisis in Syria, but such situations also occur in other parts of the world. Throughout the twentieth century, the international community developed various means and ways to achieve a peaceful settlement to disputes at both the global and regional level. Volumes have been written on the subject. There are many international institutions involved in this field, as well as many renowned and prominent experts, diplomats and politicians. Some of them, including Jimmy Carter and Martti Ahtisaari, have been rightly acknowledged by being awarded a Nobel Peace Prize. They were able to effectively use existing procedures to quell conflicts and peacefully resolve difficult disputes of an international or internal nature that otherwise could have escalated into international conflicts. However, success was not possible everywhere. If success was not achieved, it was because of the absence of one crucially important factor without which it is impossible to settle a dispute in a peaceful, lasting and just manner, namely, realizing the obvious truth that without compromise one cannot arrive at a lasting solution to any conflict. That is embedded in the very nature of conflict. In that connection, I would like to refer to the Polish experience with the Solidarity movement and the round table talks of the spring of 1989. Both sides of the deep social conflict of those days — the communist regime, on the one hand, and the champions of democratic transformation who ultimately strove to overthrow communism, on the other — demonstrated wisdom and were thereby able to reach a compromise, even if it was not fully satisfactory to either party. It was nevertheless a compromise that opened perspectives for further change, which extended beyond Poland to the entire region of Central and Eastern Europe. What made that compromise possible was the capacity for self-control by those actors who ultimately strove to achieve a revolutionary change. Let us recall that all previous attempts undertaken by the democratic opposition outside the system ended in military interventions, bloodshed, tens of thousands of refugees and further repression. That could have also been the case on a massive scale in the spring of 1989. In the long run, the capacity for self-control and the strength of a wise compromise make a much better solution than pushing one’s own demands and trying to advance one’s own arguments by force. We know all too well what happens in the latter case; it usually ends in people taking up arms in order to prove their rightness by military means. In line with the rules of geopolitics, both parties to a conflict seek allies abroad. Finally, the logic of holding each other in check and an “all or nothing” mentality start to prevail. Costs are no longer counted. As the conflict continues, the scale of the crisis grows. The situation develops into a truly international one. In order to fend off any further escalation of antagonisms, major humanitarian and stabilization operations supported by the army and police force are inevitable. The process of reconciliation, normalization and reconstruction is greatly delayed. We have seen that process in various situations in different countries. It can be avoided provided that, from the very outset of a dispute, both sides anticipate dialogue, acknowledge the limits of what is feasible, show sensitivity to the potential costs of conflict and seek compromise. The art of self-control and of wise compromise, embodied by Nobel Prize winners Lech Walesa and Nelson Mandela, are worth promoting. However, this approach is not promoted often enough in the context of efforts for peaceful conflict resolution and situations that may lead to conflict. Syria is a dramatic example of how a wasted chance for compromise can unfold. We expect that an end will be soon put to the bloodshed in Syria and that the conflict will be settled on the basis of United Nations principles, using the instruments available to the Organization. May the new United Nations envoy for that conflict never lack determination in the fulfilment of his mission. After many centuries of antagonism, disputes and conflicts in Europe, yet another preventive method was invented in order to do away with wars and stop differences and competing claims from turning into bloody crises. That method is the process of regional integration, which was ushered in after the Second World War by the creation of the European Coal and Steel Community. The project’s hidden intention was to firmly establish the “no war” principle. It was not enough to ban war, as had been done through the Kellogg-Briand Pact of 1928. What was needed was for war to be made impossible by the process of integration. Through the establishment of the Community and its expansion to new areas of integration, including most of the countries on the continent, the disputes threatening Europe’s security and peace were consigned to the past. Even if that experience cannot be used in a completely copy-and-paste manner, it can still serve as an example to other regions of the world. The plight of civilian populations, in particular children, is the most dramatic consequence of the lack to self-control and the absence of a culture of, and willingness to, compromise in contemporary disputes and internal and international conflicts. The methods and means of combat spare soldiers, sometimes at the expense of innocent civilians, especially children, who often become a target of military operations. This phenomenon is related to efforts to move the aggression to the other side. The responsibility for civilian casualties, even if unintended, can also fall on international and peacekeeping forces. Based on experience gathered by the international community, the contentious idea of humanitarian intervention has been replaced with the concept of the “responsibility to protect”. I believe that this was a very wise path to take to end the stalemate that emerged in this area more than 10 years ago. The concept of the responsibility to protect has been approved by the entire international community and has been a United Nations norm since 2005. As we know, a norm and its practice may sometimes be worlds apart. Given the developments that have unfolded over the past decade, including several events in North Africa, and in the light of the humanitarian tragedies, in particular the suffering and death of thousands of innocent children, that should stir people’s hearts and consciences, we cannot afford for the responsibility to protect to remain a dead letter. What we put forward for the Assembly’s consideration is that the United Nations should initiate work on defining a catalogue of instruments to be applied in situations that entail the responsibility to protect. This is about the international community being effective without exceeding a mission’s mandate and inciting disputes on that count. This is a particularly important consideration for us in Poland. Our nation has more than once fallen victim to crimes perpetrated on a mass scale. Prompted by that awareness, Tadeusz Mazowiecki, special rapporteur on crimes in the Balkans for the Human Rights Commission, embarked on his mission 20 years ago. The effectiveness of the international community when faced with f lagrant violations of human rights on a mass scale and crimes and suffering that call for rapid reaction, as in Syria these days, depends largely upon the credibility of our action in previous such situations. We must always act in good faith and in line with the mandate given to us. I am speaking on behalf of a country that, over the past 20 years, has managed to travel the difficult road from a totalitarian regime, the collapse of its economy and mass social unrest curbed by force to democratic stability, economic growth and the ability to support peaceful transformations beyond its borders. Thirty years ago, when martial law was imposed in order to crush the Solidarity revolution, it was suggested that Poland’s attempt to enter the world of democracy would entail potential imbalances between the East and West, and even a war between the Warsaw Pact nations and NATO — in effect, a world war. Fortunately, those days are gone. Hardly anyone would think in such terms now. Today, Poland is a free country that develops its relations without limitations, shares its experience, spreads the word about the benefits derived from our transition to democracy and extends development and humanitarian aid. We are a country that has had a positive economic growth rate for the past 20 years. Poland’s commitment to the stability of the European integration process mirrors our understanding of the process as one that serves the security of all of Europe and its neighbourhood. That is why we actively endeavour to bring together the two parts of Europe once divided by the Cold War. The European Union Eastern Partnership programme was designed to that end, with Poland and Sweden as its initiators and promoters. Poland readily offers support to and shares experiences with countries and societies embarking on the road to democracy in North Africa, Asia and Europe. To the extent we are able, Poland is involved in developing contact with countries from different regions and civilizations. Our policy in that regard arises from the conviction that an effective United Nations is as urgently needed today as it was in the days of the Cold War. The world cannot be driven by a bipolar or multipolar concert of Powers. Of course, although the Powers will not cease to exist, stability and regulation of the international legal order will require the more extensive engagement of multilateral institutions, as well as norms and mechanisms securing full observance. Only the United Nations system can ensure all of those. In order to improve its effectiveness, we need to reform the Organization along the way, respect agreed norms and honour our commitments in good faith. We recall that a return to a Hobbesian world is always possible and that some people continue actively to bring it about. That is why Poland felt sorely tried under the effects of the twentieth-century dramas. However, Poland is committed to promoting respect for the principles, integrity and full implementation of the output of our Organization. Such action will ensure that the tasks we propose will be carried out effectively and the United Nations will meet the expectations we set out at its very beginning and continue to promote today.﻿I would first like to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this year’s session. I also wish to place on record Saint Lucia’s thanks to Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for his contribution as President of the Assembly at its sixty- sixth session. I would like to underscore the words of the President, of which we should be continually reminded, concerning the fact that peace is not merely the absence of war. Indeed, poverty and prejudice are the flint and tinder for violent feud and furore. And so we embrace your suggested theme, for while in the Caribbean we generally know peace, we are aware of the real struggle of humankind to achieve peace in the face of disaster, injustice, inequity and conflict. Beyond this Hall lies a beautiful world. And whatever the f laws and failures of mankind, we still are blessed to be given a world from which we can seek life and livelihoods. It is difficult to imagine at times that even in the face of turmoil, decimation and acts of brutality and calamity, humankind has progressed over the millennia. That is what must give us hope and confidence for the future: that we have been through this before and have come through colossal tragedies, unexplainable disasters, world wars and famine, and still we are here. Our civilization continues to thrive. However, we can only succeed if we recognize and celebrate our shared humanity. This, therefore, must be a world that continuously affirms all human lives, a world that recognizes our collective endowment, that celebrates our ingenuity and our enterprise. A world, as is said in southern Africa, that is imbued with ubuntu. Each year for the past seven decades, we have sat here as equals, everyone with a voice, everyone with a say. Our size, whether defined by geography, population or both, has no relevance, albeit only temporarily for the purposes of this discourse and dialogue. And even while some have sat here longer, we can all embrace a commonality that is not transient or mutable. But even so, we can at times forget that behind every country’s representative are real people with real lives, who seek cherished moments despite their sea of despair. And let there be no doubt that, even when our leaders come here to speak, we will have, in all our own countries, differences of opinion, of philosophy, of faith. Yet despite all this, the beauty of democracy is that we can embrace a common pursuit: the pursuit of happiness, prosperity and enjoyment of life. Our philosophies should therefore never destroy that pursuit; they should affirm it. Our faiths should never tear this apart, they should form and fashion souls of compassion, understanding and tolerance. For our ancestors, from Africa to Asia, from the Arctic to the Amazon, all knew conflict and what it cost in their lives. We know what it costs humankind right now. And we should all know that history has repeatedly shown us that warfare is not the best way to solve our problems. So then do we ignore the bombs and guns if they are not heard on our streets, in our cities and parks and playgrounds? Should the girl in Aleppo or Benghazi not be able to share the same opportunities and dreams and hopes as a boy in Arlington or Birmingham? No one expects a naive world, with utopian leaders. Nor do we suggest that our world will not have conflict, for disagreement is inevitable in all aspects of life. However, I ask that we have the courage to be bold about the world we want. I ask that we act when we know we can. I ask that those leaders who hold the seats of higher authority always remember the minorities, those who are easily forgotten, easily marginalized, easily wiped out. There should never be a season for injustice, never a season for corruption, never a season for poverty, never a season for brutality and never a season for torment. Saint Lucia therefore welcomes a peaceful resolution to the conflict in the Syrian Republic and an immediate end to what is clearly carnage, a human tragedy. We continue to support the efforts of the Special Envoy and the Secretary-General in this body’s efforts to induce the parties to focus on coming to the table for negotiations, with a view to finding a path towards a resolution of the conflict that is acceptable to the majority of the people of Syria and takes into account the necessity of ensuring the welfare and interest of minorities in that State. We are, of course, also very concerned about the resort to violence in the Middle East, aimed at confronting either religious or ideological contentions. We condemn all attempts at disparagement of religious prophets, deities, symbols or practices, and we appeal for tolerance and understanding. In the same vein, we deplore the brutal murder in Libya of the Ambassador of the United States, and we share that country’s pain and anguish. Religious intolerance is combustible and dangerous and ensnares even those nations far from the theatres of conflict. Saint Lucia is very conscious of the active attempts in the Middle East to develop new systems of governance, as recent systems appear, in some countries, to have outlived their usefulness for the majority of their citizens. Apart from our commitment to global and regional peace, we must also recognize that turbulence in the Middle East has the undoubted effect of distorting the price of the dominant global commodity, oil, and that those distortions harm the interests and development processes of large and small countries alike. The world desperately needs a peaceful Middle East. We express our hope for the continued evolution of peaceful and consensus approaches to issues of governance in that area. Saint Lucia believes that all efforts to promote peace and prosperity for everyone, while of course protecting the health of our planet, should be embraced. The Government of Saint Lucia is well aware of the determination of the Chinese people to unify their country, as signalled to the world when China took its rightful place in the United Nations. In that context, Saint Lucia welcomes the emerging dialogue and cooperation between the People’s Republic of China and the Republic of China on Taiwan. Such cross-strait dialogue and cooperation will surely facilitate global harmony. We look forward to a continued evolution of the ongoing peaceful rapprochement among the Chinese people as they search to unify their civilization. Saint Lucia also wishes to support the calls for Africa to gain its rightful permanent representation on the Security Council, as supported by the Presidents of Mali and South Africa. As we recognize the perils of conflict and warfare in Africa so too should we recognize the ability of Africa to bring peace to itself. The voice of one billion people and that of an entire continent should no longer go unheard. Saint Lucia welcomes the resolution of the longstanding dispute in the Sudan, the achievement of self-determination for the new State of South Sudan and its introduction into the community of nations. It is pleasing that that process has occurred in a context in which the States of the African continent have now themselves been creating new spaces in a bid to take advantage of the development of the continent’s resources in a changing economic environment. We cannot have global collaboration and cooperation, and start anew unless extreme disparities are reduced or eliminated. So it is necessary to determine the causes and respond purposefully in tackling the inequities that exist in the world. While one of the obvious building blocks for development is that of good governance — political structures that are ethical and not fuelled by greed and abuse — and while we can strengthen the rule of law, ensure property rights and hold fair elections, those measures by themselves do not and cannot secure democracy. While democracy has no place for dictators or demigods, it is still rather meaningless to a person with no food on the table. The dispossessed will have no passion and no will. The depressed will not vote, nor will the downtrodden. We cannot continue to ignore the age-old injustices of slavery, of forcing people into labour and of decimating their culture and identity. Many of us here today are the descendants of the survivors of slavery. As a part of that recognition, we support the Government of Jamaica in calls for the recognition of the impacts of the transatlantic slave trade and the need for a frank dialogue on the status of people of African descent. Furthermore, like Africa, we all need the opportunity to trade equally and fairly. We all know that the death of the Doha talks was due to the unwillingness of some nations to relent on large-scale subsidies on farming and agriculture. One of the injustices that is a relic of an era of fear and dispute long gone is the embargo imposed upon the people of Cuba, purely for purposes of political retribution and punishment. I must take this opportunity to reiterate the conclusion of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) as a whole, most recently in December 2011, that it is time to end the embargo imposed on the Republic of Cuba by the United States. Saint Lucia is part of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States and wishes to pursue the fullest measure of economic integration in the hemisphere, as an instrument of our own economic growth and in order to maximize economic and social cooperation in the area. Blockades and embargoes, in that context, are anachronistic and outmoded. In an era of globalization and economic liberalization they cannot be tolerated or justified. Another relic of colonialism is that of our Caribbean Community member, Haiti. The suffering of the people of Haiti can only be matched by their perseverance. It is a country that was tormented into paying compensations to its former colonial master. That was an extraordinary and crude example of trade loss. Today the world’s first black independent country is the Western hemisphere’s poorest nation. It is still very much deserving of the support of the United Nations in overcoming its recent pains and indigence brought on by the earthquake of 12 January 2010. It should not be forgotten. Haiti is a member of the CARICOM family of nations, and so we pay due respect and regard to those countries in our hemisphere that came to the support and assistance of Haiti in its hour of need. We in the Caribbean continue to experience the challenge of our skilled population seeking to settle in regions to the north, where they are generally greeted with open arms. Meanwhile, we also have to contend with the reverse f low of guns which, owing to the narcotics trade, is finding its way into our jurisdictions. We cannot have internal peace in our islands if our young people are too easily being given guns. We raised the matter as one of great concern to our security at the Summit of the Americas in Cartagena, Colombia, in April this year. It is now clear that the current policies to combat the consumption and trafficking of illicit drugs across and within borders have failed, creating yet another human tragedy of immense consequence. Lives are being lost either to guns or to the consumption of drugs. We remain resolute in wanting the whole matter of the drug trade to be reviewed. Collectively, we must craft new solutions to this problem. We also wish to place on record our continued concern about the practice of deporting seasoned criminals back to our small States, without any regard for the capacity of our internal security arrangements. In all this there is a sobering reality for the leader of any small State like Saint Lucia. Even as I have the distinction of standing here today, I know that many of the decisions that affect our world and my country are still made in the capitals of other countries, sometimes unilaterally and sometimes multilaterally by groups of 5 or 8 or 20 or 30. It is said that 80 per cent of the world’s trade and economic activity is accounted for by 20 countries. I can assure everyone that Saint Lucia, indeed all of the Caribbean Basin, lies beyond the limits of that geopolitical circle. With few or no resources, diplomatic or otherwise, Saint Lucia can only speak with its moral courage, authority and convictions. Small islands are special places with special peculiarities that make us both unique and vulnerable. Still, we know that, if there is a willingness to support their growth and development, then small islands can be success stories. Consider for instance that our 15-member Caribbean Community has a combined population of 17 million and an economy of about $89 billion. The United States territory of Puerto Rico, itself part of the greater Caribbean, has a gross domestic product of about $100 billion. Those numbers clearly suggest that, given support in trade and investment, though we may be small, our economies could grow. They could find sustainability. The Caribbean Community has continuously made the point that many small States are deceptively classed as middle-income merely on the basis of per capita income. A country the size of Saint Lucia, with the vulnerabilities that we face, should not be subjected to such a measuring tool for determining whether a State can stand on its own. For instance, Saint Lucia experienced a category 2 hurricane in 2010 that caused damage totalling nearly 30 per cent of our gross domestic product. As in the case of other small States like ours, we were then forced to become even more indebted as we borrowed to replace infrastructure, such as arterial roads and bridges, without which our country’s economy would have faced further contraction. On top of that, we were further impacted by unilateral domestic measures which, showing insensitivity to such matters as our dependence on tourism, some major developed States implemented, making us an even less desirable tourist destination. Other islands that are highly dependent on international financial services are now suffering as a result of the attempts by some States to sully their reputations. Though we live in a beautiful part of the world, the reduction of foreign direct investment f lows due to the global economic crisis, and the recent announcement by the World Trade Organization that it has cut its forecast for global trade growth from 3.7 per cent to 2.5 per cent, can cause the outlook to look grim. This means that development cannot be just about assistance and that small States require there to be some fairness and balance in the world economic space. From the point of view of the developing countries, the collapse of the Doha Round was a disappointing portent of the difficult times to come in the discussions between developed and developing countries. This trend was typified in our hemisphere by the lack of progress in the initiative for a free trade area of the Americas. At the same time, however, there were increasing indications of the emergence of countries in Asia, Africa and the Far East as competitors in global economic competition. We look to a future in which the United Nations and other global institutions become more targeted and differentiated in their interventions and policies. We look to a world in which the Millennium Development Goals are realized and in which the international community crafts a new post-2015 strategy to tackle the major impediments to growth as well as to promote the major creators of wealth and prosperity. A major issue is, of course, climate change. As expressed in the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and in the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States held in Barbados in 1994, small States are committed to seeing action taken on climate change and tangible support for the requisite adaptations and interventions needed at all levels. Within the Caribbean Community, the Liliendaal Declaration issued by Heads of Government in 2009 encapsulated our concerns as small island States subject to major dislocation as a consequence of the threat of climate change. It notes that “[the region’s] efforts to promote sustainable development and to achieve the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), are under severe threat from the devastating effects of climate change and sea-level rise.” In particular, it notes the “increasingly frequent and intense extreme weather events” that have resulted in severe damage to the region’s resources and socio-economic base, and it emphasizes that “dangerous climate change is already occurring in all Small Islands and Low-lying Coastal Developing States (SIDS) regions, including the Caribbean, and that many SIDS will cease to exist without urgent, ambitious and decisive action by the international community”. Saint Lucia is therefore in full support of the conclusions of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Brazil on the challenges and potential solutions to the climate crisis and interrelated factors, which continue to inhibit the achievement of a sustainable world capable of facilitating the activities of all countries, large and small. We are comforted by the words of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon that we will secure a legally binding agreement to tackle climate change by 2015. With climate change, we cannot afford any unfinished business, for there is but one world. We also hope that there will be a strong commitment to technology transfer and building local human capacity to deal with climate change and attendant disasters. Saint Lucia looks forward to the President’s tenure in directing the work of the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly as one in which the upsurge of conflicts now characterizing our globe will be subjected to meaningful deliberations among our Member States. Our concern as small countries is that persistent conflicts in respect of issues and problems currently plaguing various regions of the globe can serve to distract our United Nations from devoting both attention and resources to persisting with solutions to the serious problems of economic transition and adjustment now characterizing international economic relations in particular. In the cacophony of regional conflicts that inevitably draw the attention and involvement of the major Powers, the problem of the survival of small countries in the environment of larger States has become more and more intractable. We in Saint Lucia, as members of the Caribbean Community, look forward to an enhanced cooperation with the countries of a continent in which a large proportion of our population finds its ancestry. We believe that it is possible to pursue this process through the United Nations development institutions in our sphere and on the African continent, and we propose that this be done. As is now well known, the traditional economic relations under the auspices of the Commonwealth system and the African, Pacific and Caribbean institutional relationships in the context of our trade with Europe are diminishing. We look forward to new avenues of relationships, a task in which the United Nations can be of great assistance to us. I wish to extend to the President the best wishes and support of my country and delegation for success in his task over the coming year.﻿Mr. President, I would like to extend to you the congratulations of the Government of Ecuador on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, for which we will provide whatever support you need to help achieve the international agenda’s commitments, especially those that have to do with revitalization of the Assembly. We are participating in this important forum with the clear purpose of sharing our ideas and proposals for the international system that governs us. We are well aware that the United Nations system was conceived in the middle of the last century and that its structure is based on, among other things, the principles of humanism, multilateralism and the equality of States before the law. Since then, the great majority of countries have fought to see those principles complied with, but there have also been countries whose power has wrongfully enabled them to fail to live up to the principles and to their obligations within the system. The world has changed substantially since the road map for the United Nations was designed, and its functions must adapt to the new demands of international relations, characterized by exchanges of information and communications and by interdependent economies. We believe the time has come to end the illegitimate political exploitation of United Nations bodies by certain Powers, which continue to exert political and economic pressure and even to intervene militarily in sovereign States whose Governments criticize the international status quo or focus on different ideologies from those promoted by some Powers, or whose public policies are opposed to the economic interests of large transnational companies. Such pressure delegitimizes the system and distorts multilateralism itself. In the five years of President Rafael Correa’s Government, Ecuador has regained sovereignty in decision-making on its internal and international policies, pursuing decisions that promote a horizontal relationship between countries with the same rights and obligations. In those five years Ecuador has supported peace. That is why we have expressed our concern about the terrible consequences for human beings that result from military interventions conducted by the Powers, and why we are calling loudly for dialogue and for respect for human rights and the people’s self- determination in all countries in conflict. We have had enough of geopolitical visions that are imposed by force, destroying human rights. In that regard, Ecuador welcomes with great hope and enthusiasm the dialogue process in the sister Republic of Colombia, which is the bravest step that the Government of that fraternal country could have taken. Today the world is experiencing constant changes in the distribution of power. New regional Powers have emerged in the past 20 years and have begun to play a decisive role in international politics and security. Russia, China, India, Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Argentina, Indonesia, Venezuela and the developing world, in general, are now the drivers of the global economy. It is therefore a political imperative that multilateralism be strengthened and promoted with regard to respect and equality among States. It is important to point out that Latin American countries committed to multilateralism, in response to unilateral actions that undermine international stability, have established regional institutions, such as the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America — Peoples’ Trade Agreement (ALBA), the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR) and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States. Such bodies are restoring the principle of universal representation in global governance and endowing it with new characteristics so as to adjust it to today’s political and social reality. However, while such countries and organizations seek to keep the institution of inter-State work alive, the continuing unilateral actions of certain Powers without consultation jeopardize the ability of multilateral bodies to provide legitimate and valid responses to international needs and problems. In that context, Ecuador believes that the weakening of the decision-making system in the United Nations undermines international law. Open dialogue is therefore needed in order to effectively reform our Organization. We believe that it is time to begin a structural reform of the United Nations that makes it more democratic and up to date and that prevents the political and illegal use of its bodies. The system will be truly democratic, as it claims to be, when everyone accepts that each country has a vote and that the majority decides in a democratic, free and sovereign way, without a small group of States that represents 2.5 per cent of the Organization’s membership being able to veto the remaining 97.5 per cent. We must of course restore the fundamental principles of the United Nations, namely, the legal equality of States, international social justice, unconditional respect for international law, the protection and defence of all human rights, cooperation and the promotion of the mutual interests of nations, respect for the sovereignty of States, the free self-determination of peoples, non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States, the elimination of wars of aggression and the peaceful settlement of disputes through dialogue, without recourse to the threat or, worse still, the use of force. But, above all, we must restore the principle of collective action. As a result, we must give it values, such as democracy, universality and supranationality. In order to be effective and efficient in its work to maintain international peace and stability, the new multilateralism should not uphold the veto power or the existence of an exclusive club, whose members are a small group of countries that decide the system’s future and other measures that affect the remaining countries. The new system would require all countries, as equals, to be equally represented in decision-making that affected the international system. It should not allow non-compliance with international standards by some States, but must rather demand strict adherence to international law and full respect for international judicial authority as the only way of promoting peaceful coexistence among nations. Ecuador supports the comprehensive reform of the United Nations system and the democratization of the international decision-making bodies. We advocate a comprehensive reform of the Security Council that includes decisions on membership categories, the veto issue, regional representation, the size of an expanded Security Council and its working methods, and its relationship with the General Assembly — in other words, a comprehensive change in its composition and operation. The idea is to make the Council representative, democratic and effective to enable the international community to have an appropriate collective security system. We believe that we must work on that proposal, study it, discuss it and decide on it together. Our country also calls for a comprehensive revitalization of the General Assembly. We propose that its role as the main depositary of global sovereignty be fully recognized within the United Nations system since it is only there that all members are represented. The General Assembly should therefore have the ability to discuss and take binding decisions on all significant issues on the international agenda, including international peace and security. An example of the imbalance and lack of democracy of the current United Nations system that clearly reflects the urgent need for its reform is the situation in which the abhorrent blockade on the sisterly Republic of Cuba continues because an economic and military Power is able to impose its will and political view despite the contrary decision of 186 countries. Then again, the United States cannot continue to include Cuba on its spurious list of countries that sponsor terrorism simply because of an ideological unwillingness to accept that the island has survived its forced isolation. Arbitrariness has played a great part in that issue. Cuba has declared that its territory has never been used nor ever will be used to organize, finance or carry out terrorist acts against any country, including the United States. Similarly, the prominent former United States President, Jimmy Carter, has stated that the role of Havana as a guarantor in the peace talks between the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia and the Colombian Government refutes any argument about the need for Cuba to remain on that list. The former President, whom we consider a friend of the Latin American cause, said that a more sincere dialogue could take place between the two countries if the United States were to remove Cuba from its list of State sponsors of terrorism. We share and support that view. Consistent with Ecuador’s recognition of the Palestinian State within the 1967 borders and with East Jerusalem as its capital, my country supports the inclusion of Palestine as a full Member of the Organization. Likewise, Ecuador reiterates its support for the historic rights of the Argentine Republic over the Malvinas Islands. The specific and anachronistic situation of those Islands should pave the way for renewed direct negotiations with the United Kingdom, as called for by Argentina. That appeal has been reiterated in several resolutions of the relevant United Nations bodies. For Ecuador, it is essential that disputes, including those related to borders, be resolved peacefully. Ecuador has successfully achieved that. Ecuador has also worked to strengthen the fundamental institutions of international law, such as the inviolability of diplomatic missions, as provided for in the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. I wish to recall that, a few weeks ago, the Government of Ecuador had an unexpected diplomatic dispute with the Government of the United Kingdom on exactly that issue. In response, Ecuador advocated that various multilateral forums adopt resolutions affirming that principle of international law. We must say with deep gratitude that Ecuador received the resolute support of the Governments of States members of UNASUR, ALBA and the Organization of American States and of other Governments, such as that of Russia, condemning any attempt at forced entry into or violation of diplomatic premises. The Government of Ecuador accordingly condemned the terrible events of 11 September, when the United States diplomatic mission and consulate in Cairo and Benghazi were attacked by armed groups with a tragic loss of life, including that of the United States Ambassador to Libya, Christopher Stevens. Ecuador stands in solidarity with the people of the United States and reaffirms its condemnation of those violent acts against United States personnel in Libya and Egypt. Once again, we declare our respect for the inviolability of the premises of diplomatic missions. My country believes that it is essential for international organizations to support and promote the observance and development of all human rights. That should be their ultimate objective, not just a politically correct way to make a discussion attractive or to justify implementing a geopolitical outlook on different cultural realities. Human rights are a principle that is lived every day and that is constantly developed and upheld. It is a principle including all of humankind with no exception, no discrimination, no categories and no prioritization. The principle admits no reservations or double standards. It is either completely defended and we submit to it, or it is rejected. But conditioned, partial compliance is not admissible. We are, of course, speaking of the progressive development of international and national instruments governing human rights and the legal international bodies that ensure compliance with those instruments. To write on paper that all men and women around the world are equal without applying it in practice is nothing but hypocrisy. Human rights, as a whole, can be summarized in the right to life. The question is: how many thousands of human beings must continue to be sacrificed in the name of the abstract principle without understanding, without really feeling what the concept is. When will humanity ask, for example, if the defence of democracy in its Western version or the accumulation of transnational capital and the expansion of organized crime constitute sufficient justification for the sacrifice of tens of thousands of human lives or for the destruction of the planet. In order to guarantee the rights of human beings, deepen their social and economic development, and achieve the harmony of nature while being fully responsible towards all generations, Ecuador has changed some traditional policies since the adoption of the new Ecuadorian Constitution in 2008. We understand that we must overcome the archaic concept that the rule of law consists of laws carved in stone that were approved at some time in history but are obsolete and out of date today. The law cannot be abstract, because in essence it is a living thing needed to give security to human beings, and it cannot be divorced from reality. That is why we also advocate that the standards that are part of international legal coexistence should be discussed and updated, because their forced application leads to chaos and weakens the rule of international law. From that point of view, our Constitution calls on us to live in a constitutional State of rights and guarantees. The fundamental objective is what is called in the Quechua language sumak kawsay, or “the right to a good life” of people and nature, knowing how to live fully, without any discrimination. It is based on dignity, solidarity, equality and the complementarity of people, cultures, nationalities, people’s social groups and countries in general. It is the commitment to being human that calls on us to encourage tolerance, respect and full support for everybody, especially those afflicted with disabilities. Ecuador has been nationally recognized on that front, because, in the last five years, it has maintained the highest ratings for effectiveness in programme support and reintegration into daily life of our brothers and sisters with disabilities. The strength of our Vice-President Lenín Moreno Garcés in his battle against discrimination against people with disabilities has made it possible for him to be globally recognized. Admiration of his programmes has led to his being nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. Since human beings are at the centre of the covenant of the popular revolution, we have given full support to those who suffer persecution because of their political ideas and sexual preferences. My country has the largest number of refugees in Latin America and one of the largest numbers in the entire Western hemisphere. Almost 60,000 people living in Ecuador are refugees. We also have around 500,000 economic migrants. That has led to recognition and expressions of gratitude by United Nations bodies. Because people in the situation of being refugees and asylum-seekers have been incorporated into Ecuadorian society, they receive political and social protection as well as an economic subsidy from the Ecuadorian State. Social groups that traditionally were discriminated against in Ecuador for ethnic or cultural reasons have also seen a substantial improvement in their situation. That is shown by the indicators for education, health and housing. But above all, President Rafael Correa has stressed that action to benefit the poorest is the main objective of State policy. The incorporation of social groups into the active life of the country has taken place, with full respect for their ancestral culture and their traditions, customs, beliefs and political views. We are also one of the countries that has strengthened gender equality, the development of the rights of women, and the application of affirmative action measures that cut across public policies in all the functions of our Government. However, those successful changes have led to a reaction from sectors of traditional power, both inside and outside Ecuador. Just yesterday, we noted the second anniversary of an attempted coup d’état and assassination. But things have changed. The empowerment of citizens fully identified with the Government has made it possible to overcome this year’s crisis as well as an international media campaign of criticism and misinformation on the activities and achievements of our country. I would like to highlight from this rostrum that Ecuador is the first country in the world to have recognized the rights of nature in its Constitution. Nature stops being a passive object and becomes an active subject. In that connection, the Constitution of Ecuador states that Mother Earth, or Pachamama, where life reproduces and flourishes, has a right to full respect for its existence and the maintenance and regeneration of its vital cycles, structure, functions and developmental processes. By recognizing those rights, we close the circle of the complementary relationship with the rights of human beings. The Constitution of Ecuador has led to major progress in legal and environmental areas. It overcomes the human-centred vision of law prevailing in the world. We aspire to open a discussion in this forum aimed at preparing a universal declaration on the rights of nature. In the environment, Ecuador is one of the leading promoters at the international level of environmental sustainability policies. We have developed new initiatives in the fight against climate change, such as the “net avoided emissions” mechanism. That has made the Yasuní-ITT initiative an innovative sovereign decision. We have also planned to protect natural resources and the cultures of several ethnic groups in the Amazon region and have accepted the responsibility to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions. In that context, Ecuador has been a leader in the regional debate on a model for domestic sustainable development. At the same time, together with the regional Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas bloc, we have played a critical role within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and we have noted the scant political will, especially in the countries in the North, to let themselves be subject to legally binding commitments to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions. Ecuador has proposed, on the international level, an alternative sustainable participatory development model. When it comes to promoting human rights and the freedom of expression, the Government of Ecuador has been faithful to its tradition, which is to protect those who seek refuge in its territory or its diplomatic missions because they are victims of political persecution, and has granted diplomatic asylum to the Australian citizen Julian Assange in response to his request to the President of the Republic of Ecuador and after an exhaustive judicial assessment. That has been a unique opportunity for the world community to debate the process of asylum in that context and to observe the political, legal and human repercussions of its application within the framework of the strict respect for international law. Ecuador is proud of having taken a sovereign decision in a legal procedure that protects human beings anywhere in the world. Our country promotes the reform of the multilateral United Nations system through example and not just in words. We have also undertaken an unprecedented institutional reform of our own. The results have been highly satisfactory, with outstanding levels of growth and poverty reduction. I want to mention just a few figures, so that members can have a clear idea of our achievements. Under the Government of the Citizens’ Revolution, the poverty rate has been reduced from 36.7 per cent to 25.3 per cent, a reduction of more than 11 per cent. Extreme poverty, that is, abject poverty, has come down from 16.5 per cent to 9.4 per cent. We have reduced the Gini coefficient from 0.55 per cent to 0.47 per cent. For the first time in our two centuries as a republic, the extreme poverty rate for Ecuador’s population is below 10 per cent. An annual education budget of $858 million has now grown by a factor of 5.1, to $4.366 billion. Payment of external debt is not more than 4.2 per cent of gross domestic product, while our spending on public social services stands at 11 per cent of gross domestic product. Every international agency that has reviewed our macroeconomic numbers and social spending agree that the changes in our country are drastically improving the lives of our citizens. We have not settled for mere words, but, rather, our country’s success story is written in concrete, practical actions as part of a national development plan, overseen and managed by the President of the Republic himself, that is bringing rapid change to our country — and without the usual social ills that result from the prescriptions of the international financial institutions. On the contrary, ours is a participatory model founded in solidarity. We have not neglected foreign direct investment, which we believe essential to our development strategy, so long as it complements our national initiatives, including our national development plan. I state with pride that the Constitution of the Republic of Ecuador is the first in the world to define legal security as a human right in itself, respect for which and the direct application of which are guaranteed by judicial, administrative and constitutional authorities. Nevertheless, we believe that progress for Ecuador or for any other country is at risk if the international system, either because of general indifference or because of interests that run contrary to global well- being, feeds a new era of anarchy in which unilateral actions or geopolitical conflicts predominate. For that reason, we would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the need to rehabilitate and revitalize multilateralism, to upgrade international mechanisms and strengthen international law, so as to safeguard international peace and security and a healthy environment, which are the necessary ingredients for worldwide development and prosperity. We want to use this platform to urge the international community and the representatives of all the countries of the world to join in demonstrating the resolve, bravery and political will to drive the creation of a new international order — new in being more just, more open, more participatory and more democratic.﻿As always, it is an honour to participate in this Assembly of the peoples of the world, which pursues the ongoing struggle, among others, for the universal principles upheld since 1948. It is here and at this time that we can see that we are different, precisely in this Assembly, which reflects the wealth of our diversity. It is here where we work constantly to overcome our natural differences, respond to our common problems and strengthen the human family through agreed outcomes. The international community must be consistent in that objective. We must be partners and allies at all times, ready to put forward initiatives, solutions and reforms that strengthen the need for close cooperation in the joint responsibility to protect not only the right to that diversity, but also the right to demonstrate it and to fully live it. All must participate in this forum, with no sister nation excluded or not invited. We are called upon to ensure the full recognition of each and every one, with complete security for all. In Honduras, for some years we have acknowledged in all areas the need for a reform process that ensures respect for people’s rights. Our first action, in accordance with our national law, was to invite regional and international organizations to come to Honduras and see our proposals and our work. We have set up a unit to investigate crimes against sexual diversity — lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender — under the Office of the Public Prosecutor. It focuses its attention on vulnerable groups and on furthering dialogue with the broader civil society. On gender issues, the Honduran State has a policy gender progamme, which is a technical and political tool to help women achieve full equality and fairness. My Government supports a 40-per-cent share of women in elected posts in the 2013 electoral campaign and a 50-per cent participation in the following election in 2017. In April, the National Congress of the Republic adopted a law against trafficking in persons. That is a measure of compliance by the State of Honduras with important recommendations on trafficking in persons drawn up by international human rights bodies. As we continue our fight for indigenous peoples, another essential part of our national plan and vision for the country is to put an end to the exclusion of such peoples and those of African descent and to ensure their full and legitimate right to preserve their culture, language, traditions and world view. I am accompanied at this Assembly by a representation of all indigenous peoples in Honduras. Last year, we held the first World Summit for People of African Descent in Honduras. Next year, we will hold a world summit on indigenous peoples. Today’s world presents a range of new threats to our countries that are not traditional in form and that have created new dynamics. I am referring to the activities of transnational criminal organizations. According to research centres that track illicit economic activity, it is estimated that those groups now account for 10 per cent of the global gross domestic product. Those activities include money-laundering, bribes, drug trafficking, counterfeit, piracy and illicit trafficking in persons and weapons. That astounding amount of financial resources dangerously corrupts our societies and Governments. In my view, it has become a threat to international security that must be assessed, understood and fought against by all members of the United Nations. My country and our citizens are victims of the insatiable appetite for drugs in developed countries and of the greed of the producers and traffickers, who become rich on huge profits stained with the blood of the innocent. Honduras is neither a consumer or producer country. Moreover, the traffickers come from the south and the north but those who die are Honduran. The mothers who suffer are Honduran, as are the orphans. However, Honduras is not unaware of the problem. Despite our limited economic resources, we are facing such challenges with the necessary resolve to find comprehensive and immediate solutions to that situation. Our primary objective is to defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our territory in the face of the aggression of which we are victims. To that end, by every means possible we must stop drugs from entering our country and ensure a complete prohibition of those that enter our national territory. We have therefore updated the regulatory framework and are reforming our institutions and security system. As violence and crime threaten our young people, we have launched prevention programmes that can open up better horizons and opportunities. Legal and institutional reform and the implementation of programmes and projects to stop the violence have started to yield results. The most recent figures of the independent Violence Watch in Honduras show that the rate of homicides has fallen by 8.5 per cent this year. That figure, added to the 10-per cent drop in the annual increase just recorded, represents a total reduction in the homicide rate of 18.5 per cent per 100,000 inhabitants. However, it is not only up to us victims to make an effort. As was made clear at the Summit of the Americas and at the recent General Assembly of the Organization of American States, combating organized crime, in particular illicit drug trafficking and related criminal activities, is a common, shared, but differentiated responsibility. At this great Assembly, I wish to underscore the resolute cooperation of Colombia and Chile and the recent memorandum of understanding signed between Honduras and the United States of America. We also welcome the most recent measures taken by the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela on the issue of f light bans. With regard to Colombia, allow me to congratulate its President Juan Manuel Santos Calderón and his Government on his initiative to put an end to 50 years of war among brothers. We commend the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia for their receptiveness. We also welcome the cooperation of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, Chile, Cuba and Norway. We wish them every success and hope that peace will return to that country. I would also like to thank the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime for its full support and recognition of the fact that we in Central America cannot face such scourges alone. We must seek every mechanism and try to be as creative as possible in dealing with that threat. With greater respect for human rights and more citizen security, we will have more and better education. Honduras has therefore launched a significant reform process. The National Congress has adopted laws to bolster education and to ensure the participation of the family and the community. Our focus and key objective are to provide a sound foundation for our children and our youth. We support the right of teachers to disagree and, on occasion, to demonstrate, but the rights of children and young people to the education that they receive in their classrooms cannot be allowed to be interrupted. Look at what is happening to us, according to UNICEF data. In Honduras, approximately 600 teaching days have been lost in State schools and colleges in the past 10 years. That data is equivalent to three school years of 200 days. That means that a boy or a girl who has completed ninth grade in their studies has, in fact, only received a sixth-grade education. Clearly, that is a step backwards for society in general. According to figures from the Department of Education, in 2009, 80 school days were lost, in 2010, 30 days and, in 2011, 40 days. All those days correspond to calls for massive teacher walk-outs. According to a study of the National Independent University of Honduras, the country’s principal university, of the top 100 colleges, that leading State college is ranked in seventeenth position. What an injustice. It is our poorest children and young people, those who cannot afford private education, who go to State schools. We are condemning them to remain victims of the most serious exclusion. Those who most need them are denied opportunities. Why do we not declare in this Assembly of peoples that classrooms are sanctuaries of education and must never be closed? We must continue our efforts to ensure greater access for the poor to the productive sectors of the national economy. Rapid, fair and sustainable growth is the true productive development of the country and, along with education and health care, the best way to reduce poverty and extreme poverty. From the Office of the President and the First Lady, who is here with me at the Assembly, among others, we are working on a very important conditional cash transfer programme. It currently reaches 30 per cent of our poor families. That is an immediate and specific response to social exclusion. Our geographic location makes Honduras one of the countries most vulnerable to climate change. Along with our socio-economic characteristics, that compels us, both nationally and regionally, to remain constantly vigilant in order to respond to natural threats and disasters. That is why we deem it key to participate in all specialized forums, in particular the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development. Today and now, in this Hall, Honduras reiterates its commitment to the international community to the comprehensive reform of the United Nations system. That will help to strengthen the principle of universality on the basis of just, fair and inclusive representation. The challenge is for us all and our commitment is universal. That is why we are gathered here now.﻿In the past few years, the number of conflicts in the world has again been on the increase. That causes the deaths and injuries of, and a loss of shelter for, thousands of people. It leads to a delay in the development of our countries and the stagnation of regional and global economies. Our common goal is to find ways to reduce tension, disagreement and conflict worldwide. The most important challenge in that respect is understanding the root causes of conflicts and concentrating efforts on prevention, not only on doing away with the consequences. I want to draw the attention of Member States to one specific area that is very narrow but very important — energy. Since ancient times, the competition for natural resources has been the reason for very many conflicts. Energy resources are not equally distributed, so there is inequality in accessibility to energy. The existing dependency on energy remains a reason for abuse, not cooperation. A lack of clear and globally accepted rules and norms in the energy sector contributes to continuing tensions. Recurring gas and oil supply crises every year remind us that, in a global environment, friction and disagreements over energy still lead to conflicts and tensions of all sorts. Being a small country, without its own resources, especially sources of energy, Lithuania is well aware of the negative consequences of energy dependency in an environment that has no universal agreement on or compliance with clear rules of the game. What can we do? First, we need to increase global energy sustainability. I would like to congratulate Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon for his Sustainable Energy for All initiative, which is really relevant and timely. The improvement of energy efficiency, the diversification of the energy supply and global accessibility to energy are certainly the goals for which we should strive. Secondly, we need to make existing inequalities in access to energy a source of cooperation, not tension. The use of energy dependency as an instrument for political or economic blackmail must be eliminated, not only to ensure equality but also to increase global competiveness and effectiveness. With the ongoing practices of price-fixing and abuse of monopolistic positions, which both distort competition, there can be no development, security or effectiveness. Thirdly, our answer to energy-related conflict prevention should be international agreements that make clear that the use of energy to gain political goals is unacceptable. Responsibility for violations should also be clear and unavoidable. We must grant international institutions greater discretion to launch investigations and to impose sanctions on activities that hinder the free f low of energy resources, impede diversification or set unfair prices for customers. I have one final point. There is no energy- related issue as dangerous as unsafe nuclear energy development. It is obvious that each country can decide on its own energy mix. However, each national decision to develop nuclear energy can have a devastating and transboundary impact, and should be extremely well grounded and researched. There can be no sustainability, development or peaceful cooperation without nuclear safety. Mistakes in nuclear energy are too costly to be allowed. In that respect, we welcome the actions taken by the International Atomic Energy Agency to improve the existing system of international nuclear safety regulations. Lithuania supports the position that nuclear safety standards should be strengthened and, if needed, legal international imperatives should be adopted. The 2012 Seoul Nuclear Security Summit clearly indicated that nuclear security and nuclear safety measures should be drawn up, implemented and managed in a coherent manner, as they both have a common aim to protect the people and their environment. Keeping the commitment that it assumed at the Summit, my country has contributed to international efforts to increase global awareness of existing energy insecurities and ways to prevent them by establishing the Nuclear Security Centre of Excellence in Lithuania. In order to tackle the causes of conflicts, not just the consequences, we have to be honest players. We must honestly define the problems; speak openly about their reasons; be clear and precise in naming the rules of the game; and, last but not least, find in ourselves the political will to play according to the rules globally, especially once agreed upon.﻿I would like to begin my statement by confirming my personal position and that of the Argentine Republic and the Argentine people with regard to our emphatic rejection and repudiation of the savage assassination of United States Ambassador Christopher Stevens in the city of Benghazi, Libya. That ugly act of terrorism warrants that we reflect upon certain interpretations of events that took place in various Arab countries and were for many Western leaders interpreted as or called the Arab Spring. But, in reality, from our point of view — and I say this humbly and with all respect — it reflected other situations that were not correctly perceived or understood by the main leaders in the West. It is no accident that the death of Chris Stevens occurred in Benghazi, where the principal focus of resistance against Muammar Al-Qadhafi’s regime originated, and where those of us with an understanding of international politics clearly know that the main Islamic fundamentalists were located — not just opponents of Muammar Al-Qadhafi’s regime, but those opposed to the very idea of peaceful coexistence between men and women of different races, religions, beliefs or faiths. I say that because it is necessary to have a clear understanding of our problems and of the situations in the world, particularly in the Middle East. It is important to understand the need for different policies geared to building true and lasting peace — a peace that must always imply choosing the language of diplomacy before choosing the language of weapons. If one reviews recent history, one can see that important figures or political factions that appear to be allied with the West frequently end up becoming sworn enemies of Western values, perhaps as a result of poor interpretations or policies ill suited to what was happening in the Middle East and around the world. The need to recognize the Palestinian State and the need to recognize that Israel must live within legally recognized borders in accordance with the 1967 borders is the crux of the problem in the Middle East. The Argentine Republic — and I believe we reflect the interests of our region — maintains that it is necessary to have a response to an issue that has been calling for a solution for decades. Yet, owing to different circumstances, to Governments and to interests in the West, which has an enormous responsibility of leadership in the issue, nothing constructive has been achieved. For Chris Stevens, and for his family, there will be no Arab Spring, but rather a terrible and eternal winter. That is why it is absolutely necessary that we in the West rethink our strategies and policies with respect to the Middle East. Otherwise, we run the risk of ending up embarking upon erroneous strategies that undermine our values and deepen the crisis. What will happen is what happened in Benghazi, and we shall have to mourn the death of a diplomat, regardless of his nationality. In this case, it was an American, something that had not happened for a very long time. A similar situation could be described with respect to the other great crisis, which was apparently economic in nature and which is shaking the world. In 2008, when we came to the General Assembly, Lehman Brothers collapsed, causing a crisis that seemed triggered by poor people who could not pay off the mortgages on their homes — the famous sub-prime loans crisis — but it has ended up today as something greater than a crisis of the poor who cannot pay off their mortgages. It has spread well beyond that issue. It has been discovered that it was precisely those financial administrators of capital who were behind all this. Actually, it was the wealthiest sectors of society who created this global crisis. In Europe the eurozone crisis is basically a crisis of sovereign debt for countries that owe more than their gross domestic product (GDP). Also, families have taken on more debt than they can pay off in the next 20 or 30 years. At this very moment in Spain there is repression against indignant citizens who are demonstrating against the belt-tightening programme being imposed on their country. They are protesting the same austerity programme that has been applied for decades now and that has not borne any fruit. When we in Argentina discuss the problem we talk about it with deep-seated knowledge of the type of neoliberal policies that were the result of the Washington consensus, which was launched following the problems in the 1990s and ended up exploding as a default on the most significant sovereign debt known in history. Argentina owed 160 per cent of its GDP, the result of debt policies that in turn had resulted from the industrialization and ongoing imposed adjustment and consumption policies. Those policies were ferociously and methodically imposed on countries, just as we are seeing now with Spain, Greece and Portugal, with the resulting danger to the eurozone. Endangering the eurozone involves more than just the undermining of an economic region. It is actually endangering the very stability of the world financial system. We should recall that some 65 per cent of international reserves deposited in central banks around the world are in United States dollars, and some 24 per cent are in euros. It is necessary to rethink all of this. We need to rethink the trade war that has exploded between various countries. Some countries have denounced it as protectionism. Basically, participants in such trade wars assert that such policies are needed to defend their societies, their workers, their labour markets and their businesses against developed countries’ economies, which actually were the root cause of the crisis we are all experiencing today. The developed countries are trying to push their problems off on to others. I keep asking, if one of our countries had had a deficit in its current account, such as the United States is running right now, that country would no doubt have been censored, punished and criticized. Of course, because dollars are the reserve currency — some 85 per cent of world transactions are in dollars — and the United States has been considered the country that issues the money used as reserve currency par excellence, it ends up being outside of the whole system. It is not criticized and is not targeted by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Yet the IMF continues to impose adjustment policies. Even yesterday, there were threats issued to countries like the Argentine Republic. The IMF has tried to allude to sovereign debts as though the whole thing were just a soccer game. If Argentina were unable to accomplish certain things, the country was going to be given a red card, just as in soccer. I just want to say to the head of that organization that this is not a soccer game. First, this is the most serious political and economic crisis in memory since the 1930s. Secondly, my country is not a player in a soccer game; it is a sovereign nation, which makes its decisions on a sovereign basis. It will not be subject to pressures brought to bear from the outside nor any threats of red cards. Finally, continuing with this analogy between soccer and the economy, the President of the International Federation of Association Football (FIFA) does a much more satisfactory job than the head of the IMF. With regard to organization and responsibility, FIFA organizes world matches every four years. Next time, they will be in Brazil, and no doubt they will be a success. The International Monetary Fund is in charge of organizing economies and has been doing so since the 1980s, and yet it has been unable to carry out its task effectively. However, it seems that it is countries that should be criticizing themselves, whereas I do not hear any self-criticism from the IMF. With regard to the statistics for Spain, what were the statistics for Greece or Portugal, Ireland or Italy? What were the figures that allowed them to go more into debt without any kind of control or oversight? Why are some countries being controlled and not others? That is a question that we have to ask, and that we are asking from this rostrum. Since 2003, we have been saying this. When President Néstor Kirchner came here for the first time he was representing an Argentina that had been devastated by the crisis, with poverty at levels that we had never seen before: 25 per cent of Argentine people had no work. People were losing their savings in dollars, roubles, pesos, pounds, whatever; they simply had nothing left. They came to the United Nations and said that we needed an opportunity to grow. For a country to pay off its debt, it needs to be able to grow. The dead do not pay off their debts. That is what the Argentine President said, and he was not mistaken. In 2003, based on the policies he was able to put into place, and without access to capital markets, Argentina was able to restructure a significant part of its foreign debt. We have been rigorously making every single payment since 2005. We will continue making those payments because we believe in policies that promote national production. We are working with the most vulnerable sectors of society and promoting social programmes. We have dedicated more than 1 per cent of our GDP to those programmes. We have put social policies and programmes in place, and they are the most notable in Latin America. They have allowed us to promote growth, which undoubtedly is the most significant seen in the last 200 years of the history of the Argentine Republic. We are not coming here to preach to anyone or to teach lessons. We do not think that we are teachers. We just want to tell the Assembly about the experience of one country that went through a situation quite similar to that now being experienced by other countries in the developed world. What we want to contribute is our empirical experience, not theoretical experiences. There are still decisions that need to be taken, but that have not been taken because many continue to follow the practices of those who control the capital markets. They hit one country and then another. One day, the stock market goes up 20 per cent, skyrockets, and then it plummets the following day. We may not be economists, but we are not stupid either. We are talking about incredible transfers of money, and those who end up being harmed are the same millions of people who lose their jobs and lose their hope. What I hope to see is that they do not lose patience. Usually, when people lose patience, that is when they hit the wall. When people cannot find a job and do not have a State that is protecting them, it becomes a political and institutional crisis. That is what happened to us in 2001 in Argentina. I also believe that it is important to understand that we have a new world before us now. This new world requires more creative leadership. It requires taking the risk of applying new ideas and new concepts. Trying to solve the current problems of the world with the same medicines that caused them is absolutely absurd. That has to be stated clearly. Then there is the matter of the current accounts deficit, which is transferred from the United States to emerging countries, so that our currencies are devalued and we have to make immense efforts to build up our reserves. We also have to take measures to prevent the central countries from transferring cheap merchandise to us that undermines our economies — the economies of the emerging countries that, it bears saying, propped up the growth of the global economy during the past decade. Today, as emerging countries, we are being condemned as protectionist by the very countries that survived by protecting themselves through agricultural subsidies and all sorts of special breaks at the expense of our economies and, above all, of millions of our people who only now are being incorporated into the labour force. It is crucial for developed countries to understand the contribution that emerging countries can make to the international economic recovery with the millions of dollars we still owe, on top of our costs for social benefits and production. Besides, we have paid down our debt to levels never seen before. Argentina, whose foreign debt represented 160 per cent of its gross national product, today owes only 14 per cent of its gross national product abroad; the remainder of its borrowing is intrasectoral public debt. We are at the lowest level ever of foreign debt and debt held by foreign sources. Obviously, for some we are a bad example. Why? Because when we restructured our debt — and I am not proposing restructurization as a solution — we held that under capitalism anyone who risked investing dollars in a country like Argentina, with interest rates in the 1990’s between 15 and 16 per cent to ensure convertibility, when the rate in rest of the world was a mere two per cent, had to know that there was a substantial risk that that person, that bank or that institution would not repay the debt. Our thesis was that if they had taken the risk, they should share it. We therefore proposed a restructuring whereby both parties would share. The fact is that Argentina paid its stockholders more than Enron did. Enron paid, I believe, $1 per $100 share; Argentina paid $25 to $30 on $100. In reality, we were more generous and responsible than Enron was, not just towards the rest of the world but to the citizens of the United States. That may of course annoy certain multilateral credit institutions, especially because, during the 1990’s, Argentina was held up as an example of the way things should be done, while in 2001 we were left to our own devices and told to resolve things by ourselves. I believe that is why some would censure us or fine us, so that our bad example does not spread, but if we think of the world as a totality, we will understand that that is not an economic problem, but a political one. Without leaders who can point to a clear, specific path for overcoming a world economic crisis of this magnitude, we are no longer facing a problem of economics or economists; we are facing a problem of politics for which there are neither solutions nor responses nor new models. We know that some multilateral agencies are angry with Argentina, but we tell them there is no point being angry with us. The important thing is to analyse the mistakes that were made in both economics and politics and what was done wrong so that we can correct them, move forward and overcome this crisis, because if allowed to continue it will trigger not just severe economic problems but severe political and institutional ones. Having been a political activist at a young age and having experienced periods in my country when Western values were not respected, when people were raped, tortured and disappeared — because democracy had disappeared — what I am most afraid of is that if there continues to be no solution to the present crisis, many millions of people in the West will cease to believe that a democratic system can provide solutions. If we examine human history, we can clearly see that the most terrible totalitarian periods were preceded by severe economic crises that gave people no way out, deprived them of hope and filled their ears with siren songs that promised things we all know could never be delivered. I wanted to speak emphatically about how to tackle the problem, about how to conceive of it, so that the situation can be brought back into line instead of languishing as it has since 2008. Unfortunately, we have begun to see that the crisis in the developed world is starting to spread into emerging countries, which have been the engine of global growth. I believe those things are connected. The lack of a correct interpretation, of an adequate classification, so that political and economic events get jumbled together, gives rise to fallacies — for example, that the people in certain political movements want to live like Westerners or that certain orthodox economic adjustments might lead to some way out or some solution — all false, of course. I would now like to address two topics that might be called bilateral in nature. One, in the form of this little booklet in English and Spanish, was delivered to each of the Missions represented here and deals with the question of the colonial status of the Malvinas. Last June, I appeared before the Committee on Decolonization here in New York to present our request for compliance with resolution 2065 (XX), which urged both countries — the United Kingdom and Argentina — to undertake a dialogue on the issue of the Malvinas. Next January, it will have been 180 years since the United Kingdom illegally usurped our Malvinas islands. Not only has that country not ceased, it has not listened to or heeded any of the many allegations and resolutions of the United Nations, the resolutions of the Committee on Decolonization, and the many resolutions of various organizations such as the Organization of American States and other multilateral organizations such as the Rio Group, which have asked Great Britain to sit down to a dialogue with Argentina. We are not asking them to say that we are right. That would not be dialogue; it would be to impose a point of view. We are simply asking them to sit down with us to comply with the United Nations resolution and to undertake a dialogue on the sovereignty of the Malvinas, as well as to demilitarize the South Atlantic so that it becomes a region of peace in South America, without regard to ethnic, religious or any other differences that could lead to clashes between us. That is why we once again reiterate our appeal. There is a clear double standard here: the permanent members of the Security Council have the right to violate any and every requirement of the United Nations, while everyone else has to accept without demur any and every Council resolution. That is not building multilateralism. It contributes nothing whatever to the peacebuilding that we all demand and need, and it leads to a growing feeling of injustice and inequality between nations, which significantly affects the possibility of a more just world, of living in a world without violence. That is why we say once again: this is not a bilateral issue between us and the United Kingdom. It has become a global issue — doing away with the last vestiges of colonialism, which became one of the great contributions of the United Nations when it created the Decolonization Committee, in 1961. Entering the twenty-first century without colonies is a matter of human rights, rights that in my country we certainly defend very strongly; our support for them is an example to the world. Finally — and this relates to the early part of my speech, when I repudiated and condemned the killing of Ambassador Christopher Stevens in Libya — I would like to mention something that for us, the Argentine people, continues to be an open wound, since in its case justice has still not been served. That is the bombings of the Asociación Mutual Israelita Argentina (AMIA) in 1994 and of the Israeli Embassy in 1992, acts that should be utterly deplored and condemned. Former President Kirchner and I both asked the Islamic Republic of Iran, which stands accused by Argentina’s judiciary of participation in that crime, for its collaboration and cooperation. In 2010 and 2011, given the lack of response to that request, I suggested, as an alternative, that if the Islamic Republic of Iran did not trust the fairness and independence of the Argentine judiciary, the solution could be based on a case that the Assembly will recall, the Libyan terrorist attack on a British airplane, in which a trial was eventually held in a third-party country to arrive at reparations — if one can talk of reparations in the case of death — for some of the damages. Thus both countries would agree on a third country where a trial would guarantee justice for both sides. In the aftermath of that terrible event, what was most important was the quest for truth. I began my statement by talking about international terrorism, and I am ending it on the same subject. I am not talking about an act committed in a single African country against a single member of the diplomat corps; I am talking about what was done in my country, on my territory, to my brother Argentines, in clear violation of territorial sovereignty. Last Wednesday, 19 September, we received a request from the Islamic Republic of Iran for a bilateral meeting at which, as we understood it, there would be a dialogue on this matter. My country, which has continued to ask for a dialogue and which promotes dialogue as a universal — and, in the case of the Malvinas, a specific — instrument, decided to instruct our Minister for Foreign Affairs to hold a bilateral meeting between the two ministries, here at the United Nations, as requested by the Islamic Republic of Iran. I should say here that I am expecting results from that meeting, based on the fact that the Islamic Republic of Iran showed that it wanted to cooperate and collaborate on the matter of the attack. If they do not want to conduct the case in Argentina or in a third country, we hope that they will come forward with other proposals as to how we can address this deep- seated conflict, dating back to 1994. I would like to remind the Assembly that when President Kirchner had just become President, in 2003, nine years had elapsed since the attack, without results. But I would also like to say that we hope this meeting will yield specific, concrete results if the Islamic Republic of Iran has a proposal for making headway. It might not necessarily be in the direction proposed by Argentina, but I would in any case, as a member of a representative and federal republican country, submit it for consideration by the representative parliamentary bodies of my country. A proposal made by the Islamic Republic of Iran is too important to be resolved through executive power alone, quite apart from the fact that our Constitution requires that the legislature and judiciary be involved in such an issue. This is not a matter of casual or standard foreign relations with another country. It concerns an event that has marked the Argentine people and is enshrined in the history of international terrorism. The essential fact is that the families of the victims, to whom I feel very committed, need answers. For six years I sat on the bicameral commission of inquiry into both the Embassy and the AMIA attacks, and I was always critical of how the investigation was conducted. That is why I believe I have the authority to address the families of the victims — because they are the ones who truly need answers; they need to understand what happened and who is responsible — and to assure them that this President will not take any decisions on any proposals put forward without first and foremost consulting them and the parliamentary representatives of my country. They all have an obligation to voice an opinion publicly on a matter of this importance. Lastly, I would like to say to every member of the Assembly that in 2013 and 2014 Argentina will have the great honour and responsibility of occupying a seat — a non-permanent seat, obviously — on the Security Council. I would like to make it clear that beyond the fact of our taking a seat at that table, each and every country with serious aspirations to peace as a universal value will be represented by us in that seat. That is not a disingenuous or informal wish. It is a firm declaration that peace must go hand in hand with truth, justice and equality. Peace is impossible in a world where countries are not all treated equally. Peace is impossible in a world where people are growing poorer and becoming increasingly excluded. Peace is impossible in a world where people do not tell the truth or state how things really are. We believe that in peacebuilding the largest and leading nations of the world bear the greater responsibility. Just as in a country’s political system the President bears the greatest responsibility and the chain continues down from there, the same is true in the wider world. We cannot, beyond the call for equality, turn a blind eye to hegemonies or to the importance of certain countries in not only resolving conflicts but sometimes also in triggering them. The Argentine Republic will, from its seat, do everything in its power to promote the values that it has always defended: peace and the unconditional promotion of human rights in all countries, whether we are on good terms with them or not. Human rights are universal values that should be respected by all types of Governments throughout the world. It is the obligation of the Assembly and the Security Council to act on the basis of a single standard so as to build the values of peace, human rights, equality and truth. That is the only way to bring about a world that is more fair and equitable than the one of today.﻿May I begin by congratulating Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. Let me assure him that Finland is fully behind him as he fulfils his important duties. We look forward to close cooperation with him. I have the pleasure and honour to address the General Assembly for the first time as President of the Republic of Finland. The United Nations is the forum to which our peoples’ expectations are directed when challenges that affect us all need to be addressed. We in this Hall must recognize our responsibilities. We all must be ready to shoulder them. A profound change is sweeping over the globe. Rapid economic growth in the countries of the global South has already made greater well-being a reality for hundreds of millions of people. More people have the chance to lift themselves out of poverty. More people have the opportunity for political participation. These developments will make our world more just and less prone to conflict. That is in Finland’s interest. It is in the interests of us all. At the same time, the tectonic plates of economic power are shifting. Global instruments are needed to manage that shift. The United Nations and the various “G Groups” need to work together better. We recognize that such groups have an important role to play in making the United Nations a more dynamic and relevant player in the world economy. Finland sees itself as a responsible member of the international community — a good global citizen, if you will. We support the United Nations in word and in deed because it is in our national interest to do so. The United Nations is a genuinely universal forum for cooperation. It has unique legitimacy. For us, it is an indispensable means to promote international peace and security, development and human rights. As a small country — there are only some 5 million of us Finns — a world order based on respect for the United Nations Charter and international law is a must. It is not an option. Finland is a candidate for non-permanent membership in the Security Council for the term 2013-2014. We wish to shoulder the responsibility that membership in the Council entails. We believe that we could make a contribution. Finland would approach the issues on the Council’s agenda as an engaged Member State. We would be ready to look for constructive and even-handed solutions to common problems. We believe that as a small and militarily non-aligned Member State, we have what it takes. Finland’s candidacy enjoys the full support of the other Nordic countries — Denmark, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. The ability to prevent conflict around the world remains the United Nations core mission. It is the yardstick by which United Nations successes or failures are measured. It is the Security Council that shoulders the main responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Peacekeeping mandated by the Council is an important means at our disposal in that regard. Finland has participated in United Nations peacekeeping as long as it has been a Member State. We are also ready to share with other Members and regional organizations the expertise that we have gained with respect to training peacekeepers. Our training centre, the Finnish Defence Forces International Centre, is at the service of the United Nations. Peacekeeping is indispensable but is not enough. Soldiers are needed to secure the conditions for peace to begin to be built. However, in the end, peace is built by civilians. That is why Finland has long paid special attention to civilian crisis management. Finnish experts — police officers and experts in the rule of law, gender equality and human rights — participate in peacekeeping operations in many parts of the world. Effective mediation is also a must. Finland has made a strong contribution to mediating conflicts. My predecessor, President Martti Ahtisaari, won the Nobel Peace Prize for his decades-long career as a successful mediator. At the initiative of Finland and Turkey, a resolution was adopted in this Hall last year that strengthened the normative basis for mediation (resolution 65/283). I am glad that the Secretary- General will soon make his guidelines on mediation available to all Member States, regional organizations and other actors. I encourage him to make full use of the powers that the Charter grants him in that regard. Respect for the rule of law is part and parcel of building peace in post-conflict societies. Impunity often leaves behind the seeds of another conflict. In the long run, economic development is sustainable only if the rule of law is respected. It is encouraging that the High-level Meeting on the rule of law yesterday showed that there is indeed the political commitment to further such efforts. Respect for the rule of law instructs us to honour the beliefs of others, but it also requires us to condemn all violence. Finland, together with the other Nordic countries, will again introduce a draft resolution on the protection of diplomatic missions in the General Assembly. Upholding diplomatic rights and immunities is in our common interest. Poverty reduction is the ultimate means to secure peace in many parts of the world. That requires, above all, economic growth and a level playing-field for all. Development cooperation can assist, especially in the least developed countries. Those countries that already suffer the effects of climate change are particularly vulnerable and in need of our support. Finland has a record of being a reliable partner for developing countries stretching over half a century. Despite the well-known budgetary pressures within the euro zone, Finland has increased its outlay fordevelopment cooperation to an annual level of about $1.5 billion in recent years. Weapons of mass destruction remain an existential threat to international peace and security. Finland has been a strong supporter of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons from the very beginning. The non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, disarmament and the right to the peaceful use of nuclear energy are all necessary parts of the whole. Finland is prepared to host a conference on the establishment of a Middle East zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction this year. The task has been described as difficult but, rest assured, we will do our utmost to complete it. Nuclear material cannot be allowed to fall into the wrong hands. Finland is on track to fulfil the commitments that we undertook at the Washington conference in 2010. National measures and international cooperation are both needed to stop nuclear terrorism. As a user of peaceful nuclear energy, Finland is strongly committed to continuing the process. Chemical weapons were totally banned some years ago. The treaty is not yet universal, though. The Finnish Institute for Verification of the Chemical Weapons Convention is an established and respected institution. Should the need arise in the Middle East, Finland is ready to put its expertise at the disposal of the international community. The conventional weapons trade clearly needs better global regulation. It is regrettable that the negotiations on the arms trade treaty ended without the desired outcome. The goal is in sight, however. It is important to ensure that the process continues within the United Nations context. As one of the sponsors, Finland continues to reach out for a substantive treaty and one that is as universal as possible. In Libya, the United Nations was instrumental in laying the groundwork for a new and hopeful future for its people. In Syria, the tragic situation is, if anything, getting worse. The Security Council has not been able to take the leading role that it is expected to take under the Charter with respect to threats to peace such as in that country. The General Assembly has, on the other hand, sent a strong signal that the international community cannot remain indifferent. The killings of civilians must stop. All members of the Security Council must cooperate to find a way out of the crisis. The authority of the United Nations will suffer if efforts to end the crisis move elsewhere. The Syrian conflict has overshadowed the Middle East peace process. That is something that the parties and the international community can ill afford. A two- State solution, within which an independent, viable and contiguous Palestinian State lives in peace and security with the State of Israel, is slipping out of reach. The Palestinians have waited patiently. The negotiations must restart. That is the only way forward. Renewed negotiations need to result in a sustainable solution that leads to the establishment of a Palestinian State, while respecting Israel’s legitimate security concerns. Settlements are squarely a contravention of international law and a growing obstacle to peace. The Security Council has powers, but with authority comes responsibility. I hope that, in a few weeks, at an election held here in this Hall, Finland is entrusted by fellow Member States with such powers and the attendant responsibility for two years. Finland will act in the Council in accordance with the United Nations Charter and on the basis of our values. We will work constructively and pragmatically in order to maintain and strengthen international peace and security to the best of our ability. ﻿Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside over the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I expect your proficient stewardship will guide the Assembly to success. At the outset, I would like to express our profound gratitude to the heads of State and Government and peoples of the States Members of the United Nations, the Secretary-General, the President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, representatives of United Nations bodies and of many countries for deep condolences they extended to us at the demise in December last year of the great leader of our people, Kim Jong Il. General Kim Jong Il devoted tireless efforts until the last moment of his life to firmly safeguarding the dignity and sovereignty of our country and the prosperity and happiness of its people, as well as to accomplishing the cause of global independence and world peace and stability. Today, having hailed dear respected Marshal Kim Jong Un as the Supreme Leader of the Party, State and Army, our people are striving to build a prosperous and powerful socialist State. Dear respected Marshal Kim Jong Un safeguards the peace and stability of the Korean peninsula by carrying forward the Songun policy of General Kim Jong Il in good faith. He wisely leads the general advance march for developing our economy, improving people’s livelihood, and devising a development strategy of our own style and innovative methods with his insight into the world. Our dear respected Marshal Kim Jong Un is firmly determined to make our people, who have overcome manifold hardships, enjoy a happy life to their heart’s content in a prosperous socialist State. Dear respected Marshal Kim Jong Un is implementing independent foreign policy and opening up a new chapter in the development of relations with other countries that are friendly to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, not bound by the past. Our people are following dear respected Marshal Kim Jong Un with absolute trust in him and are vigorously advancing to the final victory with full conviction in and optimism about the future, single-heartedly united behind him. The founding of the United Nations in the last century gave hope to mankind following a tragic world war — hope of achieving common prosperity by ensuring peace and security and developing cooperation among States based on the principle of sovereign equality. Yet today, after the first decade of the new century, that desire of the mankind has yet to be achieved. At present in international relations, high-handedness and arbitrariness are becoming ever more undisguised, and the use of force and acts of State terrorism aimed at infringing on sovereignty, interference in internal affairs and effecting regime change are being perpetrated under such pretexts as non-proliferation and humanitarian intervention. We are now witnessing the resurrection of the outdated international relations of the first half of the twentieth century, when a handful of great Powers dominated the world by resorting to the use of force. This resurrection tarnishes the credibility of the United Nations, whose mandate is to ensure global peace and security. The fact that the theme “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means” was chosen for the current session shows the seriousness of the current international situation. The most serious issue in the international arena at present is a f lagrant violation of the principles of respect for sovereignty and equality. Unless the high-handedness and arbitrariness of certain countries are thoroughly eliminated, it will be hard to say that the United Nations is fulfilling its role and function as a centre for coordinating cooperative relations between States based on the principle of sovereign equality as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. The unjustifiable interference, pressure and use of force that violate the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Syria and the right to self-determination and existence of Palestine should be rejected. Democratizing the United Nations and, in particular, strengthening the authority of the General Assembly are urgent issues for enhancing the central role of the United Nations in international relations. The Assembly resolution adopted long ago on dismantling the so-called United Nations Command stationed in South Korea and the resolution adopted annually on ending the United States blockade against Cuba remain unimplemented. These are typical examples that show the need to strengthen the authority of the General Assembly. It is quite natural for the General Assembly, which represents the general will of all Member States, to supervise the overall activities of the Organization. In particular, it should be given the authority to undertake final review of Security Council resolutions related to peace and security, such as sanctions and use of force. The abuse of the Security Council as a tool for pursuing strategic interests by a handful of countries should never be overlooked. Last April, the United States took issue with our legitimate and peaceful space launch, which followed universal international law, and forced the Council to adopt an unjust statement. That alone shows how the Council has been abused. Security Council reform, which is at the core of overall United Nations reform, is a matter that should no longer be delayed. It should be carried out in a manner that guarantees responsibility, transparency, impartiality and objectivity in its activities and ensures full representation of developing countries in its composition. Other United Nations bodies in which double standards and the theory of force are extremely evident are the Third Committee of the General Assembly and the Human Rights Council. Politicization, selectivity and double standards in deliberations on human rights should be put to an end. We should never allow the continuation of the practice whereby human rights situations of selected countries are either called into question or simply ignored in accordance with the political purposes and interests of the West and the Western standard values. In the field of sustainable development, which is now one of the three targets set by the United Nations, the agreement reached in the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held last June in Rio de Janeiro, should be implemented. Practical measures should be taken to solve such issues as establishing fair international economic and trade relations, fulfilling official development assistance commitments, transferring environmentally clean technologies to developing countries and strengthening financial support. Today, due to the ongoing hostile policy of the United States towards the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, a vicious cycle of confrontation and aggravation of tension continues to afflict the Korean peninsula, which has become the world’s most dangerous hotspot, a place where a spark could set off a thermonuclear war. At the root of that hostile policy, which has lasted for more than half a century, towards the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea lies the intention of the United States to destroy the ideas and system our people have chosen and to occupy the entire Korean peninsula, in order to use it as a stepping stone in realizing its strategy of dominating all of Asia. Since the day the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea was founded, the United States has designated it an enemy and refused to recognize its sovereignty. Since then, it has pursued every kind of sanction, pressure and military provocation against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea for more than half a century. Its hostile policy is most deeply rooted in the military field. No precedent can be found in modern history for the situation whereby the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States have continued as warring parties after hostilities ended and for more than 60 years altogether. With a view to eliminating the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea by force, the United States has already finalized various war scenarios, and is waiting for a chance to implement them, as it has outlined in a contingency plan to impose military rule after a military invasion. In accordance with those plans for military operations, the United States has staged various joint military exercises under different names in and around the Korean peninsula for several decades. A typical example was a combined military exercise named Ulji Freedom Guardian, staged at the end of last August and involving huge numbers of armed forces, which pushed the situation on the Korean peninsula to the brink of war. It is only the patience and military deterrent self- defence capacity of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea that have prevented the continued military provocations of the United States from turning into all- out war on the Korean peninsula. However, this does not mean that the patience of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is inexhaustible. Our people value peace and stability in pursuing their overall goal of building a prosperous and powerful State. But the dignity of our nation and the sovereignty of our country are even more valuable. Our principled stand is based on reacting to an aggressor’s reckless provocations with an immediate, corresponding strike in defence of our nation’s dignity and sovereignty, and to respond to a war of aggression with a just war of reunification of the country. The realities of the situation on the Korean peninsula prove that we have been absolutely right to have built a military deterrent capacity for our self-defence, by tightening our belts in order to pursue the path of Songun and independence. Our military deterrent is a mighty weapon that defends the country’s sovereignty and a powerful means of preventing war on the Korean peninsula, as well as a strong guarantee that enables us to focus our efforts on economic construction and improving people’s livelihoods. The only way to prevent war and ensure lasting peace on the Korean peninsula is to put an end to the hostile policy of the United States towards the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. That policy is the root cause that has made the Korean peninsula the world’s most dangerous hotspot, and it is the chief obstacle to lasting peace and security. The nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula is also a product of that policy. None of these problems, including the Korean peninsula nuclear issue, can be resolved without first ending the hostile policy of the United States, which views the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea as an enemy target and tries to stif le it at any cost. That is the essence of the process of our dialogue with the United States and a lesson we have drawn from practical experience. Since the turn of the new century, North-South summit meetings have been held twice, amid the joyful enthusiasm of all our fellow countrymen. They resulted in the adoption of the 15 June North-South Joint Declaration and the 4 October Declaration, and created an atmosphere in which the desire for reconciliation, cooperation and reunification between North and South reached a peak. Soon after taking office, however, the new South Korean authorities annulled all inter-Korean agreements, including the 15 June North-South Joint Declaration and the 4 October Declaration, which had been warmly welcomed and were fully supported by the entire Korean nation and the international community, including the United Nations. Furthermore, the confrontation between fellow countrymen and systems have caused an extreme deterioration in inter-Korean relations. The South Korean authorities rubbed salt in the wounds of our people, who had suffered such a huge national loss, even insulting our supreme dignity with acts of political terrorism, and leaving inter-Korean relations totally bankrupt. History will bring them to justice. The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will join hands with anyone who truly desires the country’s reunification and national reconciliation and prosperity. With responsibility and patience, and relying on the nation’s concerted efforts, it is making every effort to realize the historic cause of national reunification by preventing interference by outside forces and any attempt by anti-reunification forces to achieve permanent national division. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will continue to further strengthen and develop the relations of friendship and cooperation with all countries that respect its sovereignty, pursuant to the principles of independence, peace and friendship on which its foreign policy is based, and will actively cooperate with the efforts of United Nations Member States to secure world peace and stability and to achieve sustainable development.﻿I warmly congratulate Mr. Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, and I thank Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for his excellent leadership of the Assembly during the previous session. I also thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his efforts on behalf of the United Nations in the past year. Our new world is experiencing popular uprisings, intra-State conflicts, climate change disasters, global financial crises, food and energy insecurity, human rights violations, terrorism and so forth. These and other experiences call for collective efforts towards peaceful resolution at the United Nations. I therefore commend the theme for this year’s deliberations, namely, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. In that context, I would like to recall the role of my father, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the Father of the Nation, who from this rostrum 38 years ago espoused the principles of friendship towards all and malice towards none, the peaceful settlement of disputes, the renunciation of the use of force in international relations, and contributing to global peace and security. In essence, his policy at home and abroad was based on justice and peace. At home, during my last tenure as Prime Minister, in 1997, those policy guidelines inspired me to settle a 20-year conflict that had cost more than 20,000 lives, through the signing of the Chittagong Hill Tracts Peace Accord. In February 2009, during my current tenure, I was able to peacefully settle the volatile mutiny of our border guards, thus averting a dangerous crisis. We have also put increased emphasis on improving external relations. I was able to resolve a 25-year-old issue with India on sharing the water of the River Ganges with the signing in 1996 of the 30-year Ganges Water Sharing Treaty. Last year the 2011 Protocol to our 1974 Land Boundary Agreement settled a border demarcation issue that had gone unresolved for 64 years. We also addressed mutual concerns about a dam proposed by India across a common river. With our other neighbour, Myanmar, we reached a peaceful settlement of a 41-year maritime boundary dispute through the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. Our national and international commitment to peace has also been demonstrated by our position among the top contributors to United Nations peacekeeping and as a founding member of the Peacebuilding Commission. As the current Chair of the Commission, on 25 September we held an event entitled “Peacebuilding: the way forward towards sustainable peace and security”, in which many here participated. As a member of the Human Rights Council and of the Economic and Social Council, we promote justice, peace, democracy, gender equality, secularism, the rule of law and the rights of minorities and vulnerable groups. As a member of the executive bodies of the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Office for Partnerships, UNESCO, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the International Maritime Organization and the Universal Postal Union, we advocate setting global norms and standards. In my four decades in politics for the welfare of the people, I have learned that peace prevails when justice prevails, both within States and in relations between States. Only justice can ensure peace, which is so vital for development, and justice is possible only through democracy, which empowers people. The alternative — the absence of democracy — means social injustice, poverty, inequality, deprivation and marginalization, which encourage extremism and terrorism. We are therefore strengthening democracy and justice by empowering people by eradicating poverty, hunger, inequality and deprivation and by establishing social safety nets, creating jobs, promoting inclusiveness, sustained growth and human development, and by countering terrorism. The principles to which I have just referred also encouraged me to present a model for people’s empowerment and development at the sixty-sixth session (see A/66/PV.22). The model encompasses six mutually reinforcing peace multipliers: first, eradicating poverty and hunger; secondly, reducing inequality; thirdly, mitigating deprivation; fourthly, including excluded persons; fifthly, accelerating human development; and sixthly, eliminating terrorism. That model was endorsed by the Assembly in resolution 66/224, adopted by consensus last year. In Dhaka, on 5 and 6 August 2012, we held an international conference to discuss the model, and the 62 participating countries supported its consideration at the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I highly appreciate their support. I also seek the Assembly’s support for disseminating the model. In our efforts to achieve people’s empowerment, parliamentary standing committees were established during the first session of the Parliament that was constituted immediately after the general elections of 2008. There are 50 such committees, and many are chaired by members of Parliament from the opposition bench. We also introduced the Prime Minister’s question time and strengthened commissions on anti-corruption, human rights and information. We ensured an independent, proactive judiciary, strengthened the rule of law and established human rights, accountability, secularism and rights of minorities. We proceeded with regional multimodal connectivity to empower all people. We modernized education in madrasas. We entrenched the election commission and democratic institutions for holding 5,182 elections in a completely free and credible atmosphere. We freed and expanded the media, with 24 private television channels, 7 news agencies, 11 FM and 14 community radio stations, 320 daily newspapers and 151 periodicals. Since justice is the basis for empowering people for peace and development, women should have an equal role. To expedite the process of their empowerment, girls are provided free education up to higher secondary school under our new education policy. Women are also encouraged to be active in our national life. Women’s leadership has been developed from the grass-roots level to the national level. Their participation in politics has been increased since the general elections in 2008. So far, 12,838 women have been elected to local Government bodies, and 69 women are members of the Parliament, constituting 20 per cent of the total number of members of Parliament. Besides my being the Prime Minister and Leader of the House, other women include the Opposition Leader, the Deputy Leader of the House, five Cabinet ministers and a Whip. Of general Government posts, 30 per cent are reserved for women, some of whom serve in very senior positions in the judicial, administrative and diplomatic fields, as well as in the armed and law enforcement services and as United Nations peacekeepers. Our efforts to empower people in my present tenure have so far helped in reducing poverty by 10 per cent, attaining a gross domestic product growth rate of 6.5 per cent and enhancing per capita income by 34.6 per cent. They have helped to reduce overall inflation from double digits to 4.97 per cent, with food inflation declining from 13 per cent in 2008 to 2.25 per cent at present. Our efforts have assisted in the employment of 7.5 million in the private sector and half a million in the public sector. Exports have increased annually by 19 per cent over 2009 figures to $24.3 billion in 2011-2012. We have helped to arrange overseas jobs for 1.87 million nationals, increasing annual inward remittances by 10 per cent over 2009 to $12 billion in 2011-2012. We have maintained macroeconomic stability. We have expanded information and communications technology facilities among the lowest tier of local Government to ensure the availability of e-services to rural people. Nearly 100 per cent of school-age children are enrolled in in primary schools. We have achieved gender parity in primary and secondary education and have established 12,000 community clinics to ensure nutrition and health care for rural people, especially mothers and children. A climate change trust fund has been set up to implement adaptation and mitigation programmes. All those undertakings have helped in achieving Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 3, 4 and 5, on gender parity and infant and maternal mortality, ahead of 2015. Our achievements have earned us global recognition through MDG, South-South and Food and Agriculture Organization awards. Importantly, the Secretary- General has acknowledged those achievements by including me as a member of the Scaling Up Nutrition Lead Group and as a champion for the Education First initiative. We welcome his high-level panel on the post-2015 development agenda, which should consider coherence with the sustainable development goals and should prioritize poverty, hunger, nutrition, global food and energy security, climate change and global partnership for sustainable development. I hope that the high-level panel will also consider formulating a position on the painful plight of autistic and disadvantaged children, who constitute about 1 per cent of the world’s population. At home, we have put in place 55 special-needs schools and a centre for neurodevelopment and autism in children. In July 2011, with the collaboration of the World Health Organization and Autism Speaks, we launched a global autism public health initiative. At the current Assembly session we will submit a draft resolution on the autism spectrum disorder, which I hope will receive the Assembly’s support. Our efforts are hindered by unjust developments resulting from climate change, such as increasing poverty, property loss, human displacement and the consequent terrorism. The inevitable sea-level rise will create mass movements of displaced migrants. A new legal regime ensuring social, cultural and economic rehabilitation of climate migrants — which I called for at the Assembly’s sixty-fourth session — must be put in place. It was also emphasized at the Dhaka meeting in 2011 of the Climate Vulnerable Forum that an alliance of countries most vulnerable to climate change and rising sea levels has to be forged. As the current Chair of the Forum, Bangladesh launched the second edition of the Climate Vulnerability Monitor yesterday in New York. I also reiterate my call for an international agreement limiting greenhouse-gas emissions on the principle of common and differentiated responsibilities, on early operationalization of the Green Climate Fund for, inter alia, adaptation, mitigation and technology transfer. Closely linked to climate change is global food and energy security. The increase of food and energy prices due to climate change can be very disturbing indeed. It has dangerous implications for least developed countries, which is why they need greater international support for socioeconomic security, for duty-free and quota-free access of their products to all markets, for the fulfilment of official development assistance commitments, for an equal voice in Bretton Woods institutions and other international financial institutions, and for free movement of labour to all countries. In fact, we should immediately implement Mode IV of the General Agreement on Trade in Services to benefit both sending and receiving countries. We should also ensure documentation, safe migration and the protection of the rights of migrant workers, especially women and children, as a shared responsibility of sending and receiving States in the World Trade Organization. The blatant injustice perpetrated against, and murder, torture and humiliation of the Palestinian people by Israel marks a shameful chapter in human history. Deep frustrations at the injustice in Palestine and in other places also fuel terrorism. It is vital to resolve the Palestine and similar burning questions through justice and the establishment of democratic rights. In Bangladesh, from 2001 to 2006, an environment of terrorism prevailed. Under the patronage of the previous BNP-Jamaat Government, such internationally banned terrorist outfits as Jama’atul Mujahideen Bangladesh, Harkatul Jihad, Hizb ut-Tahrir and Lashkar-e-Toiba, among others, carried out bomb and grenade attacks with impunity, every other day, to eliminate the secular and progressive parties. Prominent instances were the bomb attacks on four cinemas killing 19 people on 5 December 2002; the grenade attack on the British High Commissioner on 21 May 2004; bomb blasts at 500 places in 63 out of 64 districts within a span of half an hour on 17 August 2005; grenade and firearm attacks that killed former Finance Minister and Executive Director of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific Mr. S.A.M.S. Kibria, MP, Mr. Ahsanullah Master, MP, Mr. Mumtazuddin, MP, and two popular judges inside the court premises. I was myself a target of a grenade attack at a public meeting on 21 August 2004, which left 24 people dead and nearly 500 injured. Somehow, I miraculously survived. Another heinous kind of terrorism that we experienced in Bangladesh was the brutal assassination of my father and the Father of the Nation, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and 18 members of our family on 15 August 1975 by some misguided army personnel seeking to usurp State power. At that time, I was abroad with my sister, Sheikh Rehana, and thus escaped death. In view of our nation’s tragic experiences with terrorism, my Government has adopted a firm policy of zero tolerance of terrorism and all forms of extremism. I conclude by joining the vast majority of United Nations Members in stressing once again the urgent need to reform the United Nations, the Bretton Woods Institutions and other international financial institutions. Their structures and decision making processes reflect a balance of power that is 60 years old, serving the interests of a privileged few and ignoring the large majority. The new millennium, with its large number of independent sovereign States and globalization, has ushered in a new world order. Today, we speak boldly of justice, equality, democracy, freedom, human rights, environment and the adverse impact of climate change, among other things. These are the priorities of our time, which we must acknowledge in place of the bitter experiences of the past. The new world order of nations has to be based on justice, mutual respect and sovereign equality if we are to evolve towards the world of peace and hope that we wish to leave to our future generations. May Bangladesh live forever! Long live the United Nations!﻿You now preside, Sir, over a forum for every voice — an Assembly of all people and nations, one for no country or bloc to dominate solely or lead as one alone, where small and medium-sized countries are truly heard. Australia warmly welcomes your election. The story of the United Nations is truly global, encompassing all the people of the world. It is a story of the progress of small and medium-sized countries, not just of great Powers. It is a story of reconstruction after world war and of the resettlement of massing millions, of navigating the winds of change and of the end of colonialism, bringing self-determination to the world’s great majority, the billions of the global South. It is the story of harnessing new sources of wealth and new resources through a revolution of rising expectations and during decades of dictatorship, famine and war. It is the story of bringing to justice the perpetrators of the worst international crimes and of preventing the worst human atrocities. Now, extending freedom and harnessing new markets, it is the story of lifting billions more out of poverty and oppression. That has been the work of the United Nations for seven decades. This year we assemble in the knowledge born of those years, neither expecting perfection nor accepting the status quo. We understanding that there is much that we can do together, and more that we can do together than we could ever do alone. The United Nations articulates humankind’s highest ideals. Even more, it makes practical progress towards realizing those ideals in the world. There is no better example of that than the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) — specific, measurable targets of the highest human importance that are now familiar to us all. Twelve years after 2000 and three years from 2015, the progress we have made must be just as familiar. The global economy has grown. Hundreds of millions of people have lifted themselves up. That first fundamental Goal, to halve the proportion of the world’s population living in extreme poverty, has now been achieved: 1 billion human lives transformed. A decade ago 100 million children did not get to go to school. That number has been reduced by fully one third, and 33 million human futures have been entirely remade. But we must all acknowledge that there are vital areas where the international community is failing to achieve change. That is why I accepted the Secretary- General’s invitation to co-chair the Millennium Development Goals Advocacy Group alongside Rwanda: to advocate for practical progress in the coming three years. Where the world has fallen short of ambitious goals, our response must be action, not disillusion. That is what Australia will do. We will act. We will help improve education. Australia’s development spending on education doubled in the past five years. We will be among the world’s largest education donors in 2015. I am especially pleased to join as an education champion in support of the Secretary- General’s Education First initiative to mobilize global support to help achieve education for all children by 2015. I am honoured to lend it Australia’s support. We will help increase gender equality. I am proud to announce that at the Pacific Islands Forum Australia said that it would work alongside our partners in the Pacific on an unprecedented gender initiative: Pacific Women Shaping Pacific Development. Australia will provide $320 million over 10 years to support women’s political participation, to expand women’s leadership and to spread economic and social opportunities in the Pacific. That is a principle underpinning every Australian aid intervention and initiative: empowering women and girls. We will help fight drug-resistant malaria. The Secretary-General has made malaria one of his key priorities for his second term. It is a priority we share. Since 2000, the world has cut the number of deaths from malaria by 26 per cent. Without those advances, 330,000 more people would have died of malaria last year, the great majority of them in Africa. But malaria itself is fighting back. New drug resistance in malaria must be overcome. Later this year, Australia will hold the Malaria 2012 meeting, bringing together political leaders, civil society and the private sector to accelerate efforts to control and eliminate malaria and combat growing drug resistance. While we are working hard to realize the MDGs in the next three years, Australia is looking further ahead. The year 2015 is a goal, but it is not a destination. Rather, it must be a new point of departure for much new work. Australia pledges to contribute to the important work of the high-level panel on the post-2015 development agenda. Australia brings considerable national experience in working with conflict-affected States and least developed countries, especially in our own region. We will seek to apply what we have learned in our work since 2000 to the world’s plans for beyond 2015. First, peace is an essential foundation to development, and building peace is vital to the progress of societies recovering from conflict. Peacekeepers today must be peacebuilders, not just stopping conflict but enabling development. Secondly, there can be no poverty alleviation without the creation of wealth and jobs. Growth alone is never sufficient; but to achieve development in the interests of all people we must create jobs and wealth. Thirdly, we cannot make poverty history unless we also consign to history the argument that environmental protection and human development are conflicting global goals. Climate change threatens the security of the food supply that guarantees development. New, clean sources of energy deliver a new source of economic growth. Australia is one of the world’s most successful multicultural and multi-faith nations. The Australian experience proves a deeply important fact. There is nothing natural or inevitable about violent conflict over religious belief. We must reaffirm that again today. The denigration of religious beliefs is never acceptable. Australia seeks to be an example of freedom for all faiths, and we support that in the wider world. However, our tolerance must never extend to tolerating religious hatred and incitement to violence. Whether such attitudes lead to attacks against members of religious minorities or diplomats or to attacks against houses of worship or diplomatic missions, the perpetrators of all such violence must be brought to justice and all such incitement must be condemned. Australia condemns violence and we work for peace. We proudly do our full part in the work of the United Nations for peace and security. We stringently observe Security Council resolutions aimed at curtailing weapons proliferation activities, like those of North Korea. We take the leading role in the United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste. We lead the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands, which operates with the United Nation’s endorsement. And we have been the largest non-NATO contributor to the United Nations-mandated International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan. Australia will bring that record of service to the international community to our service on the Security Council, should we have the privilege to be elected by the United Nations membership in October. There and beyond, our work and the work of every nation for peace must continue. As we meet, the Syrian Government is turning the instruments of State power against the very people whom State power ought to protect, employing heavy weapons and ground-attack aircraft against civilians and engaging in systematic human rights abuses. Syria’s neighbours — in particular Jordan, Turkey, Lebanon and Iraq — are burdened by growing numbers of refugees and are delivering vital help to desperate people. The United Nations has done important work already. Australia is doing its part to help through humanitarian aid. We must do everything we can to end the suffering of the Syrian people and to rebuild Syrian society. Those who are committing crimes against humanity must be held accountable. The international community must unite behind Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria. We urge the members of the Security Council to do so and to act decisively. The international community must also unite in guarding against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. It is now six years since the Security Council first expressed concern about Iran’s nuclear weapons programme. Iran still refuses to take the urgent steps necessary to build confidence that its nuclear programme is exclusively peaceful. In contravention of successive International Atomic Energy Agency and Security Council resolutions, Iran is moving closer to having the capacity to produce weapons-grade material. We therefore stand with the world, united in sending a strong signal, through Security Council sanctions, that Iran must change its behaviour now. A nuclear-armed Iran would be a major threat to regional and global security, especially given the shocking and aggressive statements about Israel by Iran’s leadership. There remains the opportunity for diplomacy, backed up by robust sanctions, to persuade Iran to change its course. Iran must take this opportunity for change, and the nations of the Assembly must press it to do so. There must also be change in the Middle East peace process. Australia shares the frustration of the parties at the current impasse. We understand the strong desire of the Palestinian people for national self-determination. Australia is resolutely committed to the establishment of a Palestinian State that is both independent and viable. That is why we provide significant support to the foundations of a future Palestinian State and build its infrastructure and economy. More than $300 million in aid has been provided for the period from 2011 to 2016. We commend the genuine progress President Abbas and Prime Minister Fayyad have made in building the institutions and infrastructure for statehood. And no one can doubt Australia’s close and continuing friendship with Israel. Our support for the right of Israel and its people to exist in security and peace is a historic commitment in Australian policy, and it will endure. We urge a return to direct negotiations and that those negotiations be between the two parties. That is the only durable basis for achieving a two-State solution. The present impasse must be overcome. Both sides need to make compromises and avoid provocations. It will take sacrifice on both sides to settle complex and difficult issues such as settlements, borders, security and Jerusalem. The Israeli and Palestinian people deserve no less. Australia’s ideals in the world are those of the United Nations, and Australians know the practical value of the United Nations work. That is why Australia seeks to serve in all the work of the United Nations and on the Security Council. We are a strong democracy, welcoming all the peoples, languages and religions of the world. We are a country of the Asia-Pacific, a neighbour to developing countries, with a perspective of both the North and South. We are a State with a decades-long tradition of capable and committed work in the United Nations. We contributed to the first United Nations peacekeeping force in 1947, and we lead contemporary peacebuilding in our own region. We support the development of new norms to enable the United Nations and its States Members to act to prevent atrocities and to make the perpetrators of the worst crimes accountable for them. We act as a first responder to humanitarian need, as a donor who stays the course and as a partner in rebuilding after conflict. Australia embraces the high ideals of the United Nations and takes a practical approach to achieving change. The work of the United Nations is a historic task in which Australia wholeheartedly joins.﻿I would first like to congratulate the President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session on his election. I also wish to congratulate his country for that success, which allows him to manage the Organization during his term of office. I would also like to congratulate the outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, whose term of office was a very busy one. Lastly, I would like to thank the Secretary- General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for the tireless work that he has undertaken through the programme he submitted for the next five years and through which he particularly focuses on sustainable development, peace, security and the participation of women and young people. Sad reality shows us that some people, using the freedom of expression that is guaranteed in their own countries, have believed that that freedom includes the right to publish cartoons and to produce a video that insults Islam. Those acts are comparable to anti-Semitic acts or racist acts in general by those who reject any differences and insist on making that a rule of conduct. We firmly condemn those actions, which are hurtful and offensive for Muslims. But however disgraceful they may be, they cannot justify the outbreak of violence we have seen, especially those against diplomatic missions. In particular, we condemn the murderous attack against the United States diplomatic mission in Benghazi, and we repeat here the sincere condolences of the people and Government of the Niger to the American people and Government. We reassert that Islam, a religion of balance and moderation, cannot provide a basis for such hateful responses. Those who, in the name of Islam, are behaving like savage hordes discredit this great religion and, in doing so, are behaving exactly like those they claim to denounce. The sad facts that I have just referred to demonstrate the wisdom of the theme the President chose to place at the centre of his mandate, that is, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. The peaceful settlement of disputes, we may recall, was the theme of the general debate at the sixty-sixth session. Between the two sessions, the position of my country on the issue has not changed. At the sixty-sixth session, my country’s President, Mr. Mahamadou Issoufou, said from this rostrum: “We might have thought that the end of the Cold War would open the way to an age of full and lasting peace around the world” (A/66/PV.20, p. 17). Unfortunately, because there was no ability, or perhaps not even the will, to attack the evil at its roots, the hope for a world without conflict recedes like the horizon as one approaches it. The root of the evil is bad governance, politically and economically. The promises of liberty, equality and justice, of the rule of law and solidarity — promises that were made to people both globally and at the national level — have still not been upheld. The lack of any regulation of the global economy, the domination of banks, unfair trade and the growth of inequalities between and within nations are factors of disorder, crises and conflicts that disrupt world peace. The rise of terrorism and the increasingly strong probability of criminal forces controlling great areas will worsen tensions throughout the world. Anticipating international conflicts and disputes is the best way to prevent them. As international economic competition can lead to war, the anticipation of crises should create specific conditions for global economic growth that benefits all. To do that, there should be mechanisms to regulate the global economy with the goal, among others, of ending the hegemony of financial capital and unfair trade. The end of the hegemony of financial capital should allow us to direct available financial resources towards investments in the real economy rather than towards speculation. The end of unfair trade will allow countries that produce raw materials, such as the Niger, to draw greater benefit from them, particularly through the change that generates added value. If a country such as mine were able to get a fair price for its raw materials and to establish real control over their exploitation, then the Millennium Development Goals could be achieved by 2015. That is one of the ambitions of the programme for the renaissance of the Niger that President Issoufou presented. On the basis of that programme, the Government has just drawn up an economic and social development plan for 2012 to 2015. For financing the programme, the Niger is organizing a donors’ meeting to be held in Paris on 13 and 14 November. The 3N initiative — Nigeriens Nourishing Nigeriens — is an integral and important part of the plan. I take the opportunity here to invite all partners of the Niger, both bilateral and multilateral, both public and private, to take an active part. Allow me also to take the opportunity to thank all those who have responded positively to the appeal that our President launched here on 23 September 2011 during his address to the Asembly at its sixtysixth session, calling for assistance to the people of the Niger following that year’s mediocre harvest. The mobilization of the people and the Government, as well as all our partners, enabled us to prevent the drought from leading to famine, while creating the conditions to prepare for the 2012-2013 harvest. The results are very promising despite the recent f looding in the country. It is said that history has more imagination than do men, because events often escape the control of those who cause them. It is my hope that this saying will not apply to the Arab Spring, which has created turmoil from which we hope good will come. Allow me to recall the fact that at the Group of Eight Summit in Deauville on 26 May 2011, President Issoufou drew the attention of the Heads of State and Government present on the need for them not to lose sight of the foreseeable consequences of a Libyan conflict in the Sahel-Saharan region. His fears were unfortunately confirmed with the outbreak of the rebellion in Mali on 17 January, triggered by elements from Libya and followed by the coup d’état of 22 March, which dealt democracy a severe blow while enabling the occupation of two thirds of Malian territory, not just by external forces, some of them from Libya, but also by terrorists and criminal organizations specializing in various types of trafficking, particularly drugs. In our view, the current situation in Mali constitutes a serious threat to the security and stability of the member countries of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), as well as the countries in the thick of things. The ambition of the jihadists who have subjugated northern Mali, destroying the patrimonial historic sites of Timbuktu, cutting off hands and forcing women to wear the burka, is to conquer the whole of West Africa and the Maghreb. Once they have achieved that goal, will they stop there? Of course not. They will immediately go on to attack Europe and the whole of the rest of the world. This is therefore a global threat, and the response should be global, too. It must be immediate and unhesitating, because we know well that postponing a fight always puts one at a disadvantage. Therefore the international community, and the Security Council in particular, has a duty to take responsibility for the crisis in Mali without delay in order to restore a united, democratic and secular Mali. An operational concept for military intervention should be drawn up and adopted within the framework of a coalition that should include troops from ECOWAS member States as well as from the countries involved and from other African countries wishing to take part. Such an operation should receive the firm and determined support of the friends of Mali and Africa among the great Powers. It should be carried out through a Security Council resolution in a framework based on the current efforts of ECOWAS but better coordinated with and controlled by the African Union through its Peace and Security Council.﻿The current session of the General Assembly gives us a complete picture of today’s world with all its challenges and opportunities. We can also glimpse various paths opening up before us to help us meet the needs of humankind and of nations. I would like to focus on the three main areas of activity of the United Nations — peace and security; development; and human rights, democracy and the rule of law. In our approach we believe that the realities of the last decade have confirmed the profound and complex interdependence that exists between these areas. There is no peace and security without development and respect for human rights and democracy. Development is a catalyst for democracy and respect for human rights, and, at the same time, an essential factor for peace and security. In their turn, respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law strengthen development and create the conditions for lasting peace and security. New situations of internal instability, civil strife and insecurity, with spillover effects, have arisen in the Middle East and other regions. It is regrettable that the new session of the Assembly is beginning in the shadow of the sorrow over the recent events in Benghazi. Attacks on diplomatic representatives are unacceptable for any reason. Diplomats are bridges between cultures, links among nations. Their inviolability is part of ancient custom. I strongly condemn the attacks and offer my sincere condolences to the families of the victims. The perpetrators must be brought to justice through a fair and equitable trial. At the same time, the ideals of democracy must be preserved. Stability and the rule of law should be the future pillars of society in Libya and elsewhere. We are firmly committed to supporting the efforts of the international community to consolidate stability and security, tolerance and religious understanding. Throughout 2012 we have been confronted with the dire effects of the crisis in Syria, where human rights violations are now rampant. The Syrian Government must comply with its international commitments and obligations relating to human rights. Justice must be done in all cases of violations of human rights and all those who are guilty must be permitted a fair trial, even if it was not something they allowed their victims. Romania has stated throughout that it is imperative that the international community curb the escalating violence in Syria; and of course we favour a political solution. In that regard, I would like to voice our firm support for the mission of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi in his new capacity as Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria. We were also a wholehearted supporter of the full implementation of the Joint Special Envoy’s six-point plan for Syria and, similarly, gave full and direct support to the activitiees of the United Nations Supervision Mission in the Syrian Arab Republic. In that context, I would like to remind the Assembly that Romanian monitors were part of its structure. I strongly believe that the only future for Syria must be an inclusive one for all Syrians, irrespective of religion or ethnic group. Any other option would be nothing less than a nightmare. The time has come for a more structured response on the part of the United Nations, based on a consensus approach by the Security Council. Obviously, we cannot and should not allow violence to prevail when people in Syria rely on our capacity to offer stability and predictability and when regional stability and security are at stake. Recent developments in the area of peace and security, at both the global and regional levels, do not offer many reasons for optimism. The year 2012 has seen limited progress with the Middle East peace process. The expectations raised by the statement of the Quartet for the Middle East on 23 September 2011 will remain unfulfilled as long as direct Israeli-Palestinian negotiations are not resumed. Romania is a strong supporter of all efforts to achieve a comprehensive peace in the Middle East. We support all the initiatives of the Quartet and the full implementation of the road map’s vision of two States, Israeli and Palestinian, living side by side in peace and security. We are also concerned about the lack of progress in finding negotiated solutions to protracted conflicts in the Black Sea region, such as those in Transnistria and Nagorno Karabakh and that in Georgia involving Abkhazia and South Ossetia. We must all keep our attention focused on these unsettled situations. Meanwhile, we express our satisfaction with the efforts carried out over the past 12 months by the special representatives of the United Nations, the European Union and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Over the past year, the Security Council reacted promptly to new crises by adopting resolutions aimed at preventing the escalation of conflict or calling for the re-establishment of constitutional order or for efforts by all the parties involved to find negotiated solutions to new problems. The resolutions adopted have not always met expectations. In spite of the fact that the mandates of several United Nations peacekeeping missions were extended, little progress was made. Under the auspices of the United Nations, through a joint innovative and intellectual effort, the conceptual approach has been enlarged to include human security, the responsibility to protect, and mediation. There is still a long way to go before those concepts are operational. When the time comes, Romania stands ready to implement them. New categories of participants must be included in our common endeavour. Beside Governments, non-governmental organizations, civil society, parliaments and local communities are already acting to identify optimal solutions. Based on my previous experience as Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Senate, I consider that the role of parliaments as elected bodies could be increased in prevention activities or in efforts to settle existing conflicts. In that respect, cooperation and interaction between the United Nations, national parliaments and the Inter-Parliamentary Union in peacebuilding efforts is highly relevant. Over the past 15 years, my country has taken a keen interest in, and offered important contributions to, civilian and military missions under United Nations mandates. Today Romania is honoured and proud to have contributed in a consistent way to various United Nations operations. I pay my deepest respect to the men and women of Romania who have lost or risked their lives in conflict areas, as well as to all the military, police, gendarmes and civilian personnel serving all over the world to bring peace and security under the f lag of the United Nations. As I have already mentioned, development is equally a major area of interest, action and cooperation within the United Nations. One area where we could find solutions within the United Nations framework is improving the functioning of the banking and financial systems and institutions. National and international banking and financial institutions should become ever greater partners for Governments — a part of the solution to the economic crises confronting countries and regions. Young people are the future of our nations and of our world. The United Nations has, in the past, takem up the problems facing younger generations, including through programmes of action adopted by the General Assembly. The time has come to revisit this area of interest to assess the achievements as well as the steps to be taken in order to meet the current expectations and needs of youth. We should reconsider from a broader perspective the vital role of the education sector in providing support, especially but not exclusively, to young people. Such support should include universal access for younger generations to education; professional training allowing rapid and efficient integration into the labour market; and participation in, and contribution to, the shaping of future societies in all the countries, especially in those in transition. For many years now, water has been a major concern as climate change affects its availability in all regions. Water, our planet’s most precious resource, must not be allowed to become our most disputed resource and a source of bitter conflict. Our attention should be focused on the follow-up to and implementation of the decisions recently adopted by the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development. Relevant resolutions on enhancement of the institutional framework for sustainable development, agreement on sustainable development goals, and determination of certain financial aspects of the achievement of those goals are expected by all of us. I should like to share some thoughts relating to the area of human rights, which is of growing relevance for our cooperation in the framework of the United Nations. International cooperation and discussions promoting human rights received renewed momentum with the establishment of the Human Rights Council. As an elected member of the Council since it began its work, Romania has contributed to the development and adoption of its working methods, based on a more analytical approach as well as on in-depth cooperation and interactive dialogue with Member States. The main objective of the Romanian presidency of the Human Rights Council in 2007 was to strengthen and more actively promote human rights at the global level. We believe that the universal periodic review is an appropriate instrument for implementing the international protection of human rights in all its aspects. It can also respond to new human rights challenges, such as those posed by the Internet. This spring in Geneva, Romania, together with Morocco, Norway, Peru, Qatar and Tunisia, promoted a draft resolution entitled “Human rights, democracy and the rule of law”, which was sponsored by 124 countries from all regional groups. The broad support for the resolution, and the large number of Member States that supported its adoption by the Council, confirms the interest of Member States in this subject. We saw a broad recognition of the close interlinkage of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. We would like to see in the near future the same approach taken by the General Assembly in the form of a similar resolution. In that respect, Romania is ready to set to work and to act together with other interested Member States. In conclusion, I would like to reaffirm my country’s commitment to the principles and values promoted and constantly enhanced by the United Nations. We recognize that there is no alternative to the framework of cooperation offered by the United Nations system, which aims to resolve the complex and interrelated problems of our day. Reforming and adapting the system to the new realities of the world depends entirely upon us as Member States. It depends on our political will as political leaders. By doing so, we will meet the expectations of our peoples.﻿On behalf of the delegation of Viet Nam, I extend my warmest congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I am confident that under your stewardship this session will be crowned with success. I appreciate the excellent work done by the Secretary-General and welcome the outcomes of the sixty-sixth session, presided over by Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser. To start with, we would like to welcome the theme proposed for this year’s general debate, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. This theme is of particular relevance in today’s world, when instability and conflicts continue in various regions, especially in North Africa and the Middle East. The decades-long Palestinian-Israeli conflict lingers on and requires a satisfactory solution, including the establishment of an independent sovereign Palestinian State coexisting peacefully with the State of Israel. Progress has yet to be made in disarmament, particularly nuclear disarmament, while the risk of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction continues to grow. New, complicated developments are emerging in the Asia- Pacific region, a dynamically growing and important region of the world. We believe that the success of this General Assembly session will significantly contribute to the primary goal of the United Nations, maintaining world peace and security. Accordingly, we must further uphold international law and strengthen compliance with it. Nations must strongly commit to the fundamental principles of international law and the United Nations Charter, particularly the peaceful settlement of disputes and non-use of force, as well as respect for the national independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of States. We must promote dialogue and the use of peaceful means in the settlement of disputes, especially recourse to international and regional organizations and international legal mechanisms. And we must not accept the imposition of sanctions like those against Cuba, the removal of which the Assembly has repeatedly called for. International law is an intellectual creation of the civilized world, which all States must respect and abide by in good faith. If international law is enforced, the risk of conflict will be minimized and sustained peace will be better secured. Viet Nam therefore welcomes the important outcome of the recent High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels (resolution 67/1), which reaffirmed that the rule of law is fundamental to political dialogue and cooperation among States and is the indispensable bedrock for a more peaceful, prosperous and just world. Compliance with international law is an essential principle that guides the policies and actions of each nation, as well as the joint endeavours of the international community. When we commemorate the thirtieth anniversary of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) later this year, we should further reaffirm our strong commitment to and compliance with that constitution of the seas, which contributes to the maintenance of peace, stability and maritime security, safety and cooperation. The United Nations continues to play an indispensable role, entrusted to it by the international community, in the maintenance of international peace and security. Viet Nam commends the work done by the United Nations, especially in helping settle regional disputes and conflicts by peaceful means, including through the strengthened use of peacekeeping operations. We expect the Organization will continue to build further upon its experience in that area and promote a culture of peace and dialogue, to better resolve ongoing conflicts and prevent the eruption of new ones. The United Nations must step up efforts in disarmament and the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, while strengthening international cooperation and ensuring the right of States to use related technologies for peaceful purposes. Multilateral negotiating forums in this area, particularly the Conference on Disarmament, must be revitalized and intensified. Furthermore, we should recognize the increasingly important role of regional organizations. In East Asia, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) continues to play a central role in the regional architecture and helps promote peace, stability and security in the region, including maritime security in the South China Sea. Viet Nam fully supports ASEAN’s six-point principles statement on the South China Sea, which further reaffirms the settlement of disputes by peaceful means, respect for international law, particularly UNCLOS, the full implementation of the Declaration of Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea and a timely agreement on a code of conduct. Peace is the prerequisite for development. Yet it is sustainable development, including the end of poverty, the promotion of social justice and the elimination of inequality in international relations, which helps resolve the root causes of conflicts and lays the foundation for a sustained peace. Today, the global economy continues to be in difficulty. The Doha Development Round has yet to make progress, while protectionism persists and the shortcomings of the international economic and financial systems have yet to be overcome. As a result, many countries, especially developing countries, continue to face great difficulties in their development, including in their efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). In that context, it is essential that we reaffirm our strong political commitment to ensuring the realization of the MDGs, the promotion of inclusive sustainable and green development, and the effective response to natural disasters, climate change and other global challenges. The United Nations needs to strengthen global partnerships for development and take the lead in an inclusive process to formulate the post-2015 global development agenda, including the proposed sustainable development goals. In that regard, we urge developed countries to fulfil their pledges for increased development assistance and support developing countries in capacity-building. This year, Viet Nam commemorates the thirty-fifth anniversary of its membership in the United Nations. Throughout that time, Viet Nam has consistently been an active and responsible member of the Organization, striving for peace, national independence, democracy, social progress and prosperity for all nations. Building on its 25 years of reform and important accomplishments, Viet Nam has been working towards a growth model that links economic development with social progress and environmental protection. In the face of recent global economic difficulties, Viet Nam has taken steps to effectively maintain macroeconomic stability and ensure social security. Viet Nam continues to strengthen the rule of law and build a State of the people, by the people and for the people, which places the people at the centre and promotes their ownership and rights in all spheres. Pursuing the policy of proactive international integration, Viet Nam continues to contribute actively to the work of the United Nations, ASEAN, the Non-Aligned Movement, the International Organization of la Francophonie and others. We also contribute constructively in multilateral forums in endeavours designed to respond to global challenges including nuclear security; disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction; sustainable development; climate change; water, food and energy security; and the achievement of the MDGs. Viet Nam has been implementing with good results the United Nations initiative of Delivering as One. To further contribute to the work of the United Nations, Viet Nam has put forth its candidature for membership in the Human Rights Council for the term 2014-2016, and we look forward to the Assembly’s support. Viet Nam always endorses efforts to enhance the role and effectiveness of the United Nations to enable the Organization to become the true centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the attainment of the common goals enshrined in its Charter. We therefore support the continued reform of the United Nations, including the strengthening of the General Assembly as the most representative deliberative body, and of the Economic and Social Council in the field of socioeconomic development, as well as the expansion of Security Council membership and reform of its working methods.﻿On behalf of the African continent and as Chair of the African Union, I would like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, and at the same time congratulate the Secretary-General for his leadership role for the peace and prosperity of our people. In our world, shaken by so many multifaceted crises, the Assembly’s general debate offers us the opportunity to transcend our national interests to contemplate together the ways and means to ensure international peace and security and to improve global governance for healthy economic growth, which is the guarantor of sustainable human development. In that regard, I welcome the relevance of the theme of this session, on the settlement of international disputes by peaceful means. It is a logical follow-up to that of the previous session, which focused on mediation in the settlement of disputes, and amply demonstrates the importance that the United Nations accords to international peace and security, the foundation of a better world characterized by stability, equity, solidarity among nations, justice, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and international cooperation. With regard to the conflicts and other wars that shake our world, the African continent faces many challenges which it cannot straighten out by itself. We hope that the General Assembly’s attention, focused since its previous session on the thorny question of conflicts and how to settle them peacefully, will help Africa to find appropriate solutions so that it can dedicate its resources and energies to the sustainable development of its States and to the well-being of its populations. The major constraints on Africa’s economic development and social progress are at once sundry and variable. They include, inter alia, the illicit and massive circulation of small arms and light weapons, which feeds chronic insecurity and transnational organized crime in States and regions of the continent heretofore havens of peace and prosperity. There is an upsurge in terrorist acts in the Sahelo-Saharan area and activities related to transnational crime, such as abductions and illegal trafficking of all kinds, in particular of humans, and trafficking in narcotics and counterfeit medications. Piracy and armed robbery at sea confront the States of the Gulf of Guinea and the Horn of Africa. We see ongoing unemployment and underemployment, lack of food in some regions and chronic malnutrition in many countries. Soil degradation and erosion increase, and natural disasters, the consequences of climate upheavals and change recur. Poor governance in international economic relations engenders an economic and financial crisis. In spite of the difficulties and shortfalls noted in their operation, the different elections that have taken place in many African States in 2011 and 2012 show the determination of the African peoples and their adherence to the process of implanting democracy and the rule of law in our dear continent. I take this opportunity to focus particularly on the efforts underway in the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), supported by the African Union, to deal with the grave security and institutional crises that have taken place in particular in Mali and Guinea-Bissau. In Mali a very disturbing situation is developing which has to do with the occupation of the north of the country by terrorist cells that threaten to destabilize the entire West African subregion and could threaten security on the continent and throughout the world. The terrorist cells share the same intolerance that is destabilizing the democratic Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The international community has a duty to act decisively against that terrorist and fundamentalist threat and ensure that human rights are respected. I would like to reiterate from this rostrum my pressing appeal for the international community to commit itself, along with ECOWAS and the African Union, to eliminate that serious threat to peace and security in the subregion and to prevent large-scale humanitarian disasters. I am not forgetting the situation in Guinea-Bissau, which continues to hold the attention of ECOWAS and of the African Union in spite of progress made through mediation between the different the parties concerned, including ECOWAS, the African Union, the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries, the United Nations and the bilateral and multilateral partners. I hope that the initiatives will continue to help to bring about a coordinated approach to the crisis in order to reach an international and national consensus on the situation in that country. I welcome the different efforts by the African Union and the international community in pursuit of peace with regard to the various other hotbeds of tension on the continent, namely, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Somalia, the Sudan, South Sudan, Madagascar, et cetera. We must strengthen the strategic partnership established between the United Nations Security Council and the Peace and Security Council of the African Union with regard to conflict prevention, mediation, peacekeeping, peacebuilding and the promotion of human rights and humanitarian law for the certain benefit of our people. We must also think more deeply on ways to ensure predictable and sustainable financing for African Union peacekeeping operations, including the African Standby Force. As shown by the crises that are shaking our planet, the system of global governance that has prevailed up to now is suffering from serious disfunctions. It is therefore high time to accelerate the process of reforming the international system in order to democratize the mode of operation of its institutions and mechanisms that regulate and promote cooperation among States. Since the 2005 World Summit, various measures having to do with rationalizing the United Nations system have been taken and have resulted in particular in the establishment of new bodies that have proven very useful. The Peacebuilding Commission, created to break the cycle of violence in countries emerging from conflict, has contributed to their stabilization by providing them targeted support to confront troubling situations. Similarly, the Human Rights Council is contributing to improving global governance with regard to the protection and promotion of human rights, humanitarian law and fundamental freedoms. In the same spirit, negotiations to reform the Security Council must be intensified to achieve in the near term the establishment of an inclusive Council, one that would repair the historical injustice done to Africa with respect to its presence in that organ, which heads the collective security system established by the Charter of the United Nations. Completing Security Council reform would, I am sure, result in more serenity in the handling of the world’s current major problems in the area of international peace and security. It would confer greater legitimacy upon the actions of our common Organization and would allow it to renew its original vocation as an instrument of conflict prevention and resolution. It would also allow it to shed the inconsistencies that limit it to the incongruous role of an observer of carnage taking place before its very eyes. Those laudable reforms must be complemented by a system offering the youth and women an opportunity to get more involved in the life of the United Nations. Peace in the world is possible. We cannot ignore the situation in the Middle East. Today the United Nations has the means to find a fair and sustainable solution to the Palestinian problem, and under no pretext should it shirk its duty and historical responsibility. We are talking about security, stability and peace, not only in the Middle East, but for the entire world. Africa is fully in favour of the “one land, two States” solution to restore lasting peace in the Middle East, because in the end the two peoples — Palestinians and Israelis — must be able to live in love, friendship, peace and prosperity. As the Assembly knows, the world economy still suffers from the financial and economic crisis that was unleashed in 2008. In spite of the macroeconomic policies established by both developed and developing countries, with the support of the national and international financial institutions, the economic slowdown that began in 2008 has persisted, with the corollary of weak and fragile economic growth and more than 75 million unemployed people throughout the world, with very high unemployment rates in the developing countries. The prices of raw materials, which are the major source of export earnings for developing countries, have become very volatile, as have the prices of food commodities. Flows of private capital meant for foreign direct investment cannot escape the negative impact of the crisis. At the same time, we see a tangible reduction of aid for development and other forms of official f lows from countries of the North to those of the South. With regard to food security, almost 16 million people in Sahel countries face problems of famine and nutrition, in spite of the many efforts made individually by our States and the collective initiatives in the African Union through the New Partnership for Africa’s Development and through the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme. In fact, of 40 countries facing a food shortage throughout the world, 34 still are in Africa, even though about twenty of them have allocated at least 20 per cent of their budget to agriculture. That is why the nineteenth ordinary session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the African Union adopted a decision declaring 2014 the Year of Agriculture and Food Security in Africa to mark the tenth anniversary of the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme. The forecasted increase in food commodity prices, according to recent estimates of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, and the already high costs of energy are certainly additional burdens for already vulnerable populations. We also welcome the positive initiative of the New Alliance for Food Security and Nutrition taken by President Barack Obama on the margins of the Group of Eight Summit, held on 18 and 19 May at Camp David, which calls for bringing together donors, partner countries and the private sector for a common cause aimed at pulling 50 million people out of poverty in the next ten years. We hope that this will allow us to mobilize more assistance for African countries in order to improve food security and nutrition in order to accelerate their progress towards achieving the Millenium Development Goals. It is also important not to disappoint the hopes raised by the conclusions of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), which adopted more than 700 official commitments and promises of gifts totaling more than $500 billion. The impact of those conferences will be measured by the fulfilment of the decisions and commitments. Africa hopes that the results of the work of the high-level group of eminent persons selected by the Secretary-General to advise him on the post-2015 development programme and the working group to define sustainable development goals will be able to achieve convergence in their efforts to suggest a vision of sustainable human development, capable of mobilizing the international community so as to achieve equity and attain a prosperity shared by all. Africa, the cradle of humankind, is also a continent of the future, of hope and hopefulness. Indeed, thanks to the incalculable potential of its subsoil and to the youthfulness of its population — which in 2050 will number 2 billion, 60 per cent of whom will be less than 35 years old — Africa could become the driving force for growth of the global economy, if that youth becomes professionalized. That is why we raised to cardinal principles the values of unity, stability, peace, security, good governance and the struggle against any impediments to our development, particularly corruption, impuntiy, the loss of accountability, fratricidal wars, political and institutional instability and brutal challenges to the constitutional order. We have affirmed all of those values through the African Charter on Democracy, Elections and Governance, the African charter on public service and the African peace and security mechanisms, et cetera. Africa has decided to establish a free trade zone throughout the continent and is in the process of accelerating its economic integration through its ambitious programme of developing infrastructure — namely, energy, railroad networks, airports and ports. That feeds the hope that we will have support for private-public partnerships to finance those wide-ranging infrastructure programmes. In our implacable fight against poverty, Africa has no choice but to persevere in its efforts to ensure progress in the areas of food, nutrition, health, water provisioning, sanitation, primary, technical and professional education for all, and the independence of women and children. The fight against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria is a top priority for the continent, and we will not be idle as long as we have not achieved the objectives that we set in Abuja. In that regard, we welcome the decision adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the African Union asking the Commission of the Union to develop a road map for the African Union for shared responsibility and global solidarity in combating HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria in Africa for the period of 2012 to 2015. A high-level coordinating meeting on the subject will take place tomorrow, 26 September 2012, at United Nations Headquarters. I call on the spirit of solidarity of developed countries and of countries of the South that are experiencing considerable economic expansion to set up, according to their historic responsibility and their abilities, opportunities to assist the efforts of African countries, as was agreed during the fourth Ministerial Conference of the Least Developed Countries, held in Istanbul, Turkey in May 2011, as well as at the Group of 20 Summit in Los Cabos, Mexico, in June. The recommendations of those bodies reflect well our common ambition to transition of half of the least developed countries to the category of middle-income countries by 2020 — an ambition that has been fully integrated into the Rio+20 vision. My fervent wish is that the current difficulties of development partners of the North, due to the sovereign debt and bank crises, and the austerity measures that they are rightly imposing on themselves do not def lect them from their commitments to a significant increase in development aid. In that regard, I am pleased by the reaffirmation at the Rio+20 Conference on Sustainable Development of the resolve of heads of State and Government to spare no effort to more promptly achieve internationally agreed development goals, including attaining the Millennium Development Goals by 2015, while bearing in mind the concerns linked to the risks that current production and consumption methods pose to the planet in terms of the accelerated depletion of resources and the challenges for future generations. I am convinced that a new world is possible. It presupposes inclusive governance in international political, financial and economic bodies. Moreover, the continuing challenges facing humanity make us fully aware of our interdependence and the need for an agreed system of governance in managing international relations rather than withdrawal and resort to unilateralism and coercive domination. I remain convinced that a new world characterized by peace, stability, security and the shared prosperity of our planet and our peoples will emerge only by the international community sharing its technology and financial resources, together with the wealth of the African continent. May God bless our planet.﻿Let me start by congratulating Mr. Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I have no doubt that under his able leadership the work at this session will progress to a successful conclusion. I also wish to acknowledge the excellent work of his predecessor, Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, who guided the affairs of the sixty-sixth session with diligence and consummate skill. I must seize this opportunity to applaud Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for the able manner in which he has continued to guide and lead the Secretariat of our Organization. When I addressed the Assembly last year on the theme of the role of mediation in the settlement of disputes by peaceful means (see A/66/PV.11), the world was witnessing important and dramatic changes. The Arab Spring had broken out, setting new political standards for social contracts between Governments and the governed. Also, South Sudan, today sitting at the family table of the United Nations, had just gained independence. Since then, we have witnessed considerable progress and also some setbacks. Knowing that the future remains uncertain and perilous, we have always believed that much more needs to be done to protect our gains, including developing new strategies for preventing and resolving conflicts. The situation in Syria, which continues to weigh on the collective conscience of the world, is a case in point. Every day since the conflict began, innocent people continue to lose their lives and livelihoods, while tens of thousands of others f lee into neighbouring countries seeking refuge. I seize this opportunity to call on the Syrian people, in the face of a seeming lack of concerted positive international action, to pause and find a solution to the crisis in a way that will benefit the Syrian nation. Indeed, it was in the context of tackling the many crises that plagued our world that I proposed the establishment of a conflict mediation commission, under the Secretary-General’s Office, to further strengthen the early warning and peacebuilding initiatives of the United Nations. Experience elsewhere gives us reason to believe that there is value in the creation of such a mechanism. Nigeria stands ready to work with other countries to make the protection of innocent civilians caught in conflict situations a priority of the United Nations. I see a consonance between the theme of the sixty- sixth session and that of sixty-seventh session — the adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means. Both are concerned with the peaceful settlement of disputes. This consonance, in my view, is evidence of the United Nations continuous and justifiable preoccupation with issues of peace and security. Membership in the Security Council in 2010 and 2011 afforded Nigeria an opportunity to work with others to promote the complex peace and security agenda of the United Nations. It was indeed a privilege for us to contribute to the United Nations and international efforts to make the world a safer and better place. Nigeria and other emerging nations continue to demonstrate the capacity to add value to the work of all the organs of the United Nations, including the Security Council. For that reason, we must now commit ourselves to accelerating the long-overdue reforms of the Security Council. They will no doubt make the Council more equitable, more inclusive and more effective. Nigeria believes that a reformed Security Council with expanded permanent membership would benefit from the unique experiences and capacities that regional representatives could bring to bear on its work. It is a matter of great concern that many regions of the world, including the West African subregion, are plagued by political crises and insurgency. In some parts of my own country, for instance, we are experiencing threats from extremist and militant activities with quasi-terrorist tactics. Our response has been multifaceted, as we seek to address the root causes of those threats, exploring opportunities for dialogue and improving law enforcement to ensure public safety and security. International cooperation has also been a key factor in tackling our security challenges. We have signed bilateral agreements with our neighbours: Cameroon, the Republic of the Niger and Chad. On the multilateral front, the Lake Chad Basin Commission has been an excellent platform for cooperation. Those efforts are aimed at safeguarding the security of our individual countries and denying extremists the use of our region as sanctuary. We are confident that those measures will stem the f low of and access to small arms and light weapons, which have indeed become Africa’s weapons of mass destruction and the most potent source of instability. Indeed, the free f low of small arms and light weapons from the developed countries that manufacture them to Africa is one of the greater challenges the continent is facing in the contemporary world. Nigeria continues to regard the General Assembly as a veritable platform for collective action to address issues of common interest to all nations. One such issue deserving the serious attention of the United Nations is the adoption of a legally binding arms trade treaty. I believe that important instrument could galvanize the international community to regulate the transfer of conventional weapons and curb the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons. There is no doubt that the absence of a global consensus on controlling the f low of such weapons, including small arms and light weapons, is fuelling conflicts, constraining growth and development and increasing human rights violations. A ray of hope was offered early this month with the successful conclusion of the second United Nations Conference to Review Progress Made in the Implementation of the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, including the unprecedented adoption of an outcome document under Nigeria’s presidency. We expect that those positive achievements will have an impact on the entire United Nations disarmament process, including the Conference on Disarmament, the Disarmament Commission and other disarmament mechanisms. The correlation between disarmament, peace and security, and development is axiomatic and self-evident. The work of the United Nations Commission on Life-saving Commodities for Women and Children — which I have the honour to co-chair with Mr. Jens Stoltenberg, Prime Minister of Norway — recognizes the need to serve and improve the health of women and children for the benefit of the future progress of the world. That is indeed a laudable achievement, for which we commend the vision of the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon. The Commission’s overarching objective is to provide medical resources and other life-saving commodities in a more affordable, accessible and timely manner, thereby saving the lives of at least 4 million women and children worldwide by 2015 and helping to achieve the health-related targets of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Concerned with the unf lattering statistics on maternal and child mortality in Nigeria, my Government has adopted measures for reversing that unhappy trend, in close collaboration with the Commission and the related Every Woman Every Child movement. We believe, therefore, that it is time that the world looked beyond 2015 to the post-MDG era. The year 2015 is not a destination but only a milestone on the long journey to a better, safer, healthier and more caring world. It is in that spirit that Nigeria will participate in the forthcoming intergovernmental process to consider the development of specific and action-oriented sustainable development goals beyond 2015. Sustainable development and progress are two ultimate aspirations of any nation, and they cannot be achieved without peace and security. Guided by that realization, Nigeria has committed and shall continue to commit itself to the attainment of regional and international peace and security, in close collaboration with the United Nations, the African Union and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). Recently, however, our subregion has suffered some setbacks in terms of unconstitutional change of Governments and the emergence of insurgency, among others. In Mali, the political crisis stemming from that reality has escalated to an insurgency that is threatening the unity of the country. Nigeria and ECOWAS are working in concert to address that threat, which has the potential to spill over into neighbouring countries and destabilize the entire region. Guinea-Bissau is another f lashpoint of instability in the subregion in which Nigeria and the Economic Community of West African States are engaged. Indeed, the contact group, headed by Nigeria, was set up by the authority of the Heads of State and Government of ECOWAS to help establish a transitional Government with a view to returning that country to political and constitutional order. In furtherance of that objective, Nigeria provided the sum of $10 million to the interim Government in Guinea- Bissau to assist in the stabilization of the country. The overall security situation in the West African subregion should continue to be a matter of interest and concern to the rest of the international community. I believe I speak for many in the Assembly when I state that West Africa can ill afford renewed insurgency. Although ECOWAS is taking measures to address the situation in Mali, particularly in the north, the urgent assistance of the United Nations and the support of other partners will be needed to build on recent gains to secure peace and stability in Mali and across the subregion. Nigeria’s long-standing commitment to the promotion of issues of particular concern to Africa is widely acknowledged. Nigeria has stood firm and played critical roles in all the recent developments in Africa, including the struggle for independence and self-determination and the fight against apartheid, colonialism and discrimination. Today, we are in the vanguard of the fight against extremism, terrorism and all forms of mindless violence. We shall remain undeterred and unf linching in our resolve to protect our citizens and other persons living within our borders and to extend such protection wherever we can to other countries in our region. We know that no country has unilaterally defeated the dark forces of violence and terrorism. They evidently represent an evil that requires international collaboration. We therefore call upon the international community and all like-minded stakeholders to address the matter with all the seriousness it deserves. I cannot end my statement without alluding to the importance of the support that Nigerians are continuing to give to the United Nations in not only advancing but also upholding international peace and security. We shall strengthen and deepen our cooperation with the United Nations in peacekeeping operations around the world. We shall remain focused and committed to ensuring a meaningful and effective contribution to its presence and, if need be, to crucial peacekeeping operations, particularly in Africa. The events of recent weeks have demonstrated how increasingly interconnected our world has become and the extent to which an incident in one area can cause reverberations in others. The lesson is that freedom of expression should not be construed as a licence to incitement. The freedom that we all hold dear and true should be exercised wisely and consciously. Freedom of expression and religious tolerance must not be mutually exclusive but should be complementary to each other. We eschew violence and deplore needless loss of lives and destruction of property. We condemn the deliberate denigration of religious and cultural beliefs and sensitivities, which in turn leads to counter-reactions. As the world grows in knowledge and prosperity, so must humankind grow in maturity and wisdom. Care and compassion for our fellow beings must inform all our actions. We must ensure that no nation and no part of the world is left behind in terms of human progress. Working together with commitment and common purpose, we can succeed in building an inclusive, safer and prosperous world for present and future generations. The United Nations must lead that effort with renewed commitment.﻿Allow me to congratulate the President on his well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. My delegation and I would like to assure him of Malawi’s full support during his tenure of office. It is an honour to address the Assembly today for the first time in my capacity as President of the Republic of Malawi. As the Assembly may be aware, I took office in April of this year after the death of my predecessor, His Excellency Professor Bingu Wa Mutharika. On behalf of all Malawians, I express our appreciation for the support that the world gave us during that difficult time in our country. I would like to also acknowledge in particular the support I received from leaders from the Southern African Development Community and the entire African continent when I assumed the presidency. The support that I received is a mark that Africa has indeed embraced women’s leadership. Joining the world’s leaders here and becoming only the second female Head of State in Africa’s history, after Her Excellency President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf of Liberia, is a moment of pride for me. However, mine is not the story of the success of an individual, but of a people. A peaceful and constitutional transition of power was not inevitable when my presidency began. It is the courage and determination of the people of Malawi that made it possible. The people of Malawi have made a decisive choice. They have chosen democracy, they have chosen peace and they have chosen to work together to realize their destiny. It is my people’s courage and determination that has taken me to the presidency, and which we will now apply to our national development. The theme of the general debate this year is “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. It allows us to reflect on some of the conflict situations around the world, including in Africa. Those conflicts have a devastating effect on the lives of millions, especially women and children. The impact of conflict goes beyond the people directly involved, affecting the region and the world. Let me agree with Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon when he said in his reappointment speech that one of the greatest opportunities we have for a better world without conflict is through sustainable development. The biggest threats to security and peace are poverty, lack of opportunity and lack of hope. It is unacceptable to me as the President of Malawi, as it should be to the global community, that we have children continuing to suffer from malnutrition, or that they yearn to learn but have to sit under trees rather than in proper classrooms. It is unacceptable that a mother should die while giving birth because the nearest health centre is far away, or that thousands die of diseases that we have answers for. It is unacceptable that the youth who represent the future of our world have few opportunities to realize their potential, or that they are not guaranteed a society where they can speak their mind. It is unacceptable that farmers and other workers continue to toil to make the best of what they have, but do not enjoy the fruits of their labour due to lack of modernization, a supportive policy environment and access to markets; and that they are buried under global tariffs and taxes. It is when those frustrations are in place that conflict takes root. For decades, I have fought these issues in Malawi as a social justice and human rights activist and through my work at the gra-ssroots. I have experienced the struggles of the poor and the suffering of Malawian women. I have championed the advancement of the oppressed and marginalized, fought for the rights of women and children, campaigned for the betterment of the rural and urban poor. I can attest to the fact that the experience of a poor and disadvantaged Malawian is intimately intertwined with that of Africans, and indeed with that of the people of the least developed countries. Now, as the President of the Republic of Malawi, I have a vision. My vision is to eradicate poverty through economic growth and wealth creation. Malawi aims to create wealth by transforming the structure of the economy, promoting the private sector in order to achieve economic growth, accelerating job creation and protecting the vulnerable and the excluded within a decentralized and democratic environment. Specifically, my vision is to transform Malawi into one of the fastest-growing African economies in the next decade. For me, growth is not merely related to gross domestic product. Growth is about wealth and prosperity for all, opportunity for all, happiness for all, political and economic freedom for all. Growth is also about growing the number of children in school and young people in jobs. Growth is about increasing the number of mothers who give safe birth in a hospital and of growing the number of families who have plenty of food. As the Assembly may be aware, for the past three years Malawi has faced severe economic and social challenges brought on by poor political and economic governance, which could have impacted our ability to accelerate the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Therefore, upon assuming office I immediately put in place an economic recovery programme to restore macroeconomic stability in the country so that we can not only address our immediate macroeconomic issues, but also secure Malawi’s ability to meet the MDG targets. I would like to share that we are certain that we will be able to achieve five of the eight MDGs by 2015. And we will continue to strive to achieve our goals of the three remaining MDGs: universal primary education, promoting gender equality and empowering women, and improving maternal health. Coincidentally, these three MDGs are related to issues that I have worked on throughout my life, and I will personally ensure that Malawi redoubles its efforts to make improvements in those areas. My Government realizes that the potential of Malawi — the potential of our land, our resources and, most importantly, our people — is great. But that opportunity will be seized only through our own efforts. That is why my vision is not just hopeful words. Our willingness to take tough decisions does not end here. Our plans need to be translated into action. To that end, within my first 100 days in office, Malawi held an inclusive national dialogue on the economy to narrow down five priority sectors within our medium-term national development framework, the Malawi Growth and Development Strategy II. The five priorities are energy, tourism, agriculture, mining and infrastructure development. Central to those priorities is our emphasis on delivery through partnership with the private sector. We will facilitate that by making changes aimed at improving the business climate. My Cabinet has identified three specific projects within each priority sector and translated that into an implementation plan for the next two years. The projects range from the completion of essential roads and rail lines, to setting up alternative energy sources and undertaking business climate reform to attract investment into agro-processing and mining. The projects will set our country on a path of fulfilling its full potential. In addition, I have also launched two initiatives — the Presidential Initiative on Maternal Health and Safe Motherhood, and the Presidential Initiative on Poverty and Hunger Reduction — to fast-track the interventions needed to address the social needs of disadvantaged groups, especially women and youth. Malawi refuses to accept what others may consider to be our destiny — the status of underdevelopment. Malawi is committed to change that perception. But in so doing, my Government and, indeed, the people of Malawi know that we need to engage the rest of the global community. That is why, within days of taking office, I reopened dialogue and engagement with our neighbours, with African leaders and with the rest of the world. The people of Malawi are grateful for the good will that many have shown us, and we are encouraged by the support of our partners. Malawi will continue to need global support in the short and medium terms. We need this support to protect the rural poor from food shortages caused by prolonged dry spells in some parts of the country. Malawi is looking for partnerships to build its energy capacity. Malawi needs support to attract private investment for the rich potential we have in agroprocessing and mining, among others. We are looking for partnerships to support the development of our transport and communications infrastructure in order to improve access to markets. Before I conclude I wish to draw the Assembly’s attention to the following three issues that have a bearing on most of the least developed countries. First, I call upon the General Assembly to ensure that the Istanbul Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted in Turkey in May 2011, will be implemented in their entirety in an effective and timely manner. In particular, duty-free and quota-free market access and supply-side capacity must be ensured to the least developed countries. Secondly, most least developed countries are facing the adverse effects of climate change, which is causing f looding, land degradation and drought. In that regard, Malawi welcomes the recent outcome of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development held in Brazil, where international consensus emerged and agreement was reached on important areas of sustainable development. The implementation of these agreements is very crucial for our future. Finally, on the issue of the reform of the United Nations, Malawi fully supports the expansion of the Security Council in both permanent and non-permanent categories. As members of the Assembly are aware, Africa represents one of the single largest regions within the United Nations, and a very significant proportion of issues discussed in the Security Council concern the African continent. It is for those reasons, therefore, that Malawi joins the rest of the African nations in demanding at least two seats in the permanent category and five seats in the non-permanent category, as stipulated in the Ezulwini Consensus. Africa has to lead its own development, and that will be a step in ensuring that it can. At this moment, I say to the Assembly that Malawi is on a journey – a journey to change its trajectory; a journey to make real change happen; a journey to foster private-sector growth; a journey to be an integral part of the global community. Malawi is ready to take its turn to grow, not just in wealth, but in opportunities, hopes and freedoms for all of the Malawian people. As a new President and a new member of the global community of leaders, I ask for the Assembly’s support as this one African country journeys to realize its full potential — for its people, for Africa and for the world.﻿At the outset, I would like to address my warmest congratulations to Mr. Vuk Jeremić on the confidence that the entire United Nations family has invested in him by electing him to the high office of President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I would also like to take this opportunity to reiterate Togo’s support to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for all of the work that he continues to undertake in order to promote peace in the world. We appreciate the immense efforts that he is pursuing in Africa and many other regions of the world in order to find a peaceful outcome to the conflicts that they face by prioritizing dialogue, mediation and cooperation. The choice of the peaceful settlement of disputes as the central theme of this session is a wise choice, and I welcome it. Indeed, it allows us, in the complex world we live in today, to reconnect with the original purpose and founding values of the United Nations. Over the decades, our Organization has taken it upon itself to respond to the many challenges posed by a world that is constantly changing. It remains present and active in all the areas that present opportunities for progress by humankind. However, in spite of our efforts and the progress that has been achieved, here and there, in the areas of technology, economy and social issues, we note, unfortunately, that force continues to be used all too frequently in international relations. On many occasions, recourse to the use of armed force has been chosen before all avenues for the peaceful means of dispute resolution have been exhausted. The African continent, unfortunately, has paid and continues to pay a heavy price when it seeks to save time by prematurely cutting short the process for the peaceful settlement of disputes. Yet, experience has shown that even in the rare cases where recourse to the use of weapons has allowed one of the parties to the conflict to quickly prevail over the other, lasting peace and stability have not been achieved. That is why my country, Togo, welcomes the fact that the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly gives all of us the opportunity to revisit the original values of the United Nations Charter in order to better guide our work in dealing with the challenges of our contemporary world. Indeed, perhaps it is time to put dialogue among nations at the centre of the international agenda again. But today we need to go further, and also make dialogue within nations an important component of our efforts to achieve peace. Dialogue within nations is in fact an indispensable corollary of dialogue among nations. It should be encouraged and cultivated in the same vein, because it is the prelude to preserving peace among nations. Indeed, since the contemporary world is marked by interdependence, when misunderstandings degenerate into internal conflicts because there is no dialogue, it is rare that they do not have repercussions in neighbouring countries. The Syrian crisis and the climate of growing insecurity in the Sahel-Sahara region are textbook examples. That is why I would like to urge our common Organization and its Member States to persevere in the efforts already under way to make dialogue within nations a cornerstone of their conflict-prevention work in the world. Before all else, encouraging dialogue within nations comes down to adopting a constructive approach that strives to promote universal values while taking into account the realities specific to each country, as well as local and regional specificities. It is also a matter of making citizens, whatever country they live in, responsible through various means for the culture of peace, for listening to one another and for a sense of compromise in order to make dialogue a cross- cutting value in our modern societies. With that in mind, the West African Economic and Monetary Union — over which Togo is honoured to preside and which now enjoys observer status in the General Assembly — decided at its May 2012 meeting in Lomé to give higher priority to matters of peace and security than to purely economic issues. That novel move by a regional economic organization is fundamentally guided by the desire to make dialogue a priority tool for conflict prevention. In that regard, I remain profoundly convinced that decentralization of conflict prevention and resolution that makes use of the contribution of subregional organizations is one of the most viable options for peacekeeping in the world. The proximity of such bodies to the geographic areas of conflict and to their historical and cultural roots is a major asset that should be maximized in conflict prevention and the settlement of disputes. Still, the increased responsibility of subregional organizations should not be a pretext to justify a kind of disguised renunciation of our collective responsibility in the area of promoting peace and security in the world. As Members of the United Nations, we do not have that choice, because the community of values that unites us is a permanent call to promote solidarity and even complementarity between the specific goals of subregional organizations and the search for universality that is the very foundation of the United Nations. On that point, it should be noted that the protocol establishing a Peace and Security Council in the African Union in 2002 created a great deal of hope at the time. Modelled on the Security Council of the United Nations, that new institutional tool was intended to enable the African Union to intervene directly in countries in crisis. Sadly, recent experiences, whether in Libya or Côte d’Ivoire, have shown that, faced with the antagonisms that characterize the international community, that tool has not been able to fulfil our expectations. Those modest beginnings confirm the urgent need for close cooperation between regional peacekeeping mechanisms and the system established decades ago by the United Nations to ensure collective international security. From that point of view, I would like to join my voice to those of previous speakers to invite the entire international community to assist all the institutional players who are proceeding with good will to help Mali in its determination to recover its territorial integrity as quickly as possible and to help that country re-establish peace so that the transition period can be successful. That obligation of solidarity is a call to all of us. Recent events in the north of the African continent have once again exposed the sad reality that the reduction of tension and the prevention and settlement of internal disputes all too often involve elements that extend well beyond individual States. Drawing on its experience of the past two decades, which were marked by major political shocks, and honoured to sit as a non-permanent member of the Security Council, Togo resolutely joins the dynamic of the continuing search for peace focusing on dialogue and cooperation. In that regard, on behalf of my compatriots, and from this high rostrum, I would like to salute the United Nations, other international organizations and all friendly nations and partners of goodwill who recently helped the Togolese people set out on the path of dialogue to overcome the weight of the past. That wise choice enabled us to embark on the construction of a new country, one reconciled with itself and facing out onto the world. Our feeling of gratitude is all the more profound because we have been able to see in just a few years the economic and social progress that the Togolese people can achieve on their own, now that they are living in peace and harmony among themselves, with their neighbours and with the rest of the world. We have renewed our economic growth and are intensifying our efforts to ensure better political and economic governance through sweeping institutional and constitutional reforms. We intend to implement them out of respect for the republican agenda. From one year to the next, public freedoms have taken root in Togo. Political pluralism, which is deeply ingrained in Togolese customs, has a natural ally in the acknowledged right of all citizens to demonstrate in complete freedom, so long as they respect prevailing rules. The challenge in Togo today is to consolidate economic recovery, to promote a firm foundation for democracy and the rule of law, and to promote the indivisibility of human rights in order to propel the country towards new gains, particularly in the social arena, where expectations are both numerous and urgent. Of course, the progress made in recent years in the economic, political and social realms is still fragile. That is why the Government remains alert to the different views expressed on the best ways to consolidate that progress. We have opted to make the search for consensus a central axis for managing the affairs of State. In that same spirit, the Togolese Government is working to build on the excitement that has gripped the country’s political class on the eve of legislative elections. Now that dialogue has been reopened, I have good reason to hope that it will lead to broader membership in that class so that its conclusions will be accepted by all. Our immediate priority is to hold successful, free, peaceful and transparent legislative elections. Indeed, we aim to raise Togo to the ranks of those countries that have managed to eradicate the syndrome of violence before, during and after elections. Nonetheless, we must recognize that such violence has unfortunately turned elections into a cause of mortality in various regions of the world. That scourge has caused so much damage on the African continent, in both the loss of human lives and in material destruction, that it is urgent to do everything to prevent its reappearance in Togo or elsewhere. That is both an individual and a collective responsibility. We should leave no stone unturned in the struggle that has been launched at all levels to prevent the elections from being synonymous with violence and chaos. Civil society has an important role to play in that crucial area. States must help civil society to better organize itself in order to play its full role and to become a type of citizens’ watch that can truly contribute to the evolution of human societies. However, in return, those organizations must demonstrate their probity and lack of bias. They must also refrain from aligning themselves with belligerent factions or fighting for the cause of the protagonists in political battles. Civil society must not be a Trojan horse for political groups. Mr. Charles (Trinidad and Tobago), Vice-President, took the Chair. Because of their proximity to citizens, the organizations of civil society must free themselves from political cliques so as to contribute to the rapid development of human societies in key areas of economic and social life. In that regard, I welcome the decision taken several years ago to encourage citizen action by accrediting to the Economic and Social Council those organizations that have been recognized for their usefulness. That is a judicious way to encourage, within those citizen organizations, a heightened awareness of their responsibilities when facing today’s major challenges, economic crises, environment crises and the aspirations to democracy and freedoms that, although they assume new forms, should not obstruct the momentum of our societies. The peoples’ fight for more open and democratic societies should not dissipate at the borders of nation States. That fight must extend to the international level, in which the rules of the game must also continue to evolve in order to take into account the major changes that have taken place since the creation of the United Nations. And yet, since 1945, the basic rules that govern the functioning of the Security Council have literally been frozen in an immobility that is increasingly appalling. It is obvious that maintenance of the status quo in a context of profound change cannot fail to generate serious dysfunctions. The Council’s incapacity to agree on certain major cases of great importance is a perfect illustration, and again sharply raises the question of reform of that body, which is at the heart of the entire United Nations system. That process, which has countless times been broached and put off for later, today deserves full and immediate attention. Thus, Togo would like to solemnly reaffirm its steadfast support for the African Union initiative that seeks to grant the African continent, following the modalities that have not yet been defined, more adequate representation within the United Nations Security Council. I firmly believe that it is up to the nations that have always had the privilege of having a permanent seat on the Council to take a small step that would allow all of humankind to make a giant leap forward. That gesture seems essential to me because it is a sine qua non for generating a new dynamic that would allow us to collectively deliver more coordinated, bolder and determined responses and to thus forge a global governance that is more mature and more free, with greater analytical capacity.﻿It gives me pleasure to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I am confident that he will successfully manage the session thanks to his competence and his rich and long experience in diplomacy in the service of his friendly country, the Republic of Serbia. I also express our great appreciation for the President of the Assembly at its last session, Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser of the fraternal State of Qatar, and thank him for the vital role he played, the constructive issues he advanced and his excellent management of the work of the sixty-sixth session. We are proud of him as a seasoned diplomat from a State member of the Gulf Cooperation Council, and wish him every success in his future endeavours. Let me also express our great appreciation for Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and thank him for the strenuous efforts he has made to enhance the effective role of the Organization in various fields. We look forward to a renewed role for the United Nations compatible with the Secretary-General’s new vision so that the Organization will be able to address the major challenges before it. Since joining the United Nations, the Kingdom of Bahrain has worked tirelessly to promote the noble purposes and principles of the United Nations, in particular, the maintenance of peace and security and the development of cooperation and friendly relations among nations on the basis of mutual respect. Guided by full respect for those principles, I am honoured to represent a country that acts upon its international commitments and has laid the foundations of a modern State through initiatives, planning and political and organizational vision. We seek to build a modern society that is well organized and committed to its values in various fields, notably education, health, employment, vocational training, economic reform and the advancement of women. Our country, Bahrain, has opted for dialogue as an approach to all its modernization efforts aimed at meeting the requirements of its long history. We conducted municipal elections in the 1920s and parliamentary elections in the past few decades. Important results have been achieved in providing a greater degree of equality, participation, transparency, political rights and human dignity. That is truly a historical milestone on the path towards building a society based on competitive sustainability, justice, the rule of law, equality and the consecration of the principles of popular participation and representation in the decision-making process. Notwithstanding all those remarkable national achievements, since last year the Kingdom of Bahrain has faced some serious challenges to its security and stability, which it has addressed in full transparency, commitment and honesty. In that context, we established the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry to ascertain the truth and provide redress. Consequently, we launched a comprehensive dialogue among the various sectors of society that resulted in a series of constitutional and legislative reforms encompassing all aspects of life — political, economic, social and legal. Against that backdrop, His Majesty King Hamad bin Issa Al Khalifa of Bahrain proposed the creation of an Arab court of human rights to lay the foundations of an environment conducive to the protection of human rights and the prevention of their abuse in the Arab world, using the model of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights and the African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights. The Council of the League of Arab States endorsed that historical initiative, and arrangements are currently under way to establish the legal basis for the court’s establishment. We hope that the court will become a reality in the near future. Last week, consistent with our efforts to build a pluralistic Bahraini society and in full respect for the protection and enhancement of human rights, the Kingdom of Bahrain approved more than 90 per cent of the recommendations made by the Human Rights Council in Geneva during its Universal Periodic Review, including a possible accession to the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. The challenges and threats facing our region have led the States members of the Gulf Cooperation Council to realize the need for greater synergies among them. They have endorsed the proposal of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, to move from cooperation to union as a means of addressing those challenges and threats and building capacities to achieve a Gulf Cooperation Council society based on a shared vision of the future that responds to the accelerating pace of the world and answers to the aspirations of the peoples of the Gulf region. They are convinced that their interests and gains can be served only through solidarity and unity with a view to preserving national independence and State sovereignty and to meeting the needs arising from the strategic transformations on the regional and international scenes. My country believes that the United Nations has an indispensable role to play in addressing international and regional problems and finding appropriate solutions to them. Our region dearly needs that role to be fulfilled, given the catastrophic and fast-paced developments taking place in Syria. The international community, represented by the United Nations and its organs and bodies entrusted with the maintenance of international peace and security, is called upon to unify its position with a view to putting an end to the humanitarian suffering of the Syrian people and finding a political solution to the crisis that will end the violence and bloodshed, preserve the unity of Syria and the cohesion of its people, and spare the region as a whole serious repercussions that could spill far beyond the borders of Syria. The United Nations must therefore shoulder its responsibilities to protect unarmed civilians without allowing the Organization’s procedures and mechanisms to impede its ability to prevent crimes against humanity from being committed. It must set aside narrow geopolitical interests and proceed to attain the supreme goal of protecting civilians in armed conflicts and wars. My Government welcomes the appointment of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi as Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States, and wishes him every success in his endeavours to achieve the legitimate demands of the brotherly Syrian people. On the basis of the same humanitarian principle, we should also stand by the Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar in their ordeal and provide them with assistance and support while providing good counsel to the Government of Myanmar in that regard. Although the Syrian crisis is preoccupying the international community today, the Palestinian question remains the core issue for the Arab States and the international community. The Kingdom of Bahrain believes that it is imperative to redouble efforts towards a just, durable and comprehensive solution, notably through the creation of an independent Palestinian State, with East Jerusalem as its capital, in conformity with the relevant United Nations resolutions, the Arab Peace Initiative and the decisions of the international Quartet. We are extremely concerned at attempts to violate the sanctity of the holy sites in Al-Quds Al-Sharif and the attempts to alter their identity. We call on the international community to support Mahmoud Abbas, President of the State of Palestine, who is striving relentlessly to defend the cause of his occupied country and to achieve a just and comprehensive peace in the region. We therefore urge the international community to demand that Israel cease its settlement activities in the occupied Palestinian territories and dismantle settlements that jeopardize the chances for peace. We also stress the need to implement the relevant General Assembly and Security Council resolutions by putting an end to ongoing Israeli violations and aggression, and to ensure the principles of international legitimacy, notably the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949, which prohibits any geographical or demographic alteration in occupied territories. We look forward to peace in our region, which would serve the interests of all its peoples. One tenet of our foreign policy is to enhance peace and security in the region. In that regard, Bahrain reaffirms its unf linching position in favour of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East. That will be possible only by compelling Israel to implement relevant international resolutions, to adhere to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and to subject its nuclear facilities to the supervision of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Moreover, we stress that the Islamic Republic of Iran must fulfil its commitments in full and transparent cooperation with the IAEA. Indeed, nuclear weapons constitute a serious threat to peace and security in the entire region, and various parties must therefore assume their responsibility for peace and security and refrain from the language of intimidation, threats and counter- threats that have recently dominated our region. In that regard, we stress the importance of an excellent preparation process for the 2012 conference to be held pursuant to the agreement reached in the Final Document of the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT/CONF.2010/50 (Vol. I)). We also reaffirm that the principle of establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East in no way precludes the right of all nations to access nuclear technology for peaceful purposes, provided that they do so in full transparency and abide by the IAEA guarantee system. While the States members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) have extended their hand to their neighbour, the Islamic Republic of Iran, they have unfortunately found no positive Iranian response that could facilitate confidence-building, peace and security. On the contrary, we have had to endure constant interference in our internal affairs from our neighbour. Recently, Iran has reiterated menacing threats to GCC Member States, in contradiction of the spirit of good- neighbourliness, thus generating tension and distrust in the region. More importantly, the Kingdom of Bahrain reaffirms the need, either through direct negotiations or through arbitration by the International Court of Justice, to resolve the problem of the three United Arab Emirates’ islands of Abu Musa, Greater Tunb and Lesser Tunb that are occupied by the Islamic Republic of Iran. With regard to the situation in brotherly Yemen, we are aware of the need for a successful transitional period in order to achieve security and stability in the country, in line with the agreement reached within the framework of the GCC initiative and its implementation mechanisms. We welcome the steps taken by Mr. Abdrabuh Mansour Hadi Mansour, President of the Republic of Yemen, to launch a national Yemeni dialogue, and we are fully confident of his wise leadership of Yemen during this critical transitional period, so that the aspirations of the Yemeni people can be realized. In that regard, the Kingdom of Bahrain welcomes the convening of the donors conference for Yemen, held in Riyadh and sponsored by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and fully supports the recommendations and conclusions agreed upon with a view to building a brighter future for brotherly Yemen, as well as the outcome of the meeting of the Friends of Yemen, held today in New York. We also reaffirm the unwavering, principled and consistent position of the Kingdom of Bahrain, in solidarity with the Kingdom of Morocco, regarding the preservation of the territorial integrity of Morocco and the peaceful settlement of the Moroccan Sahara issue pursuant to relevant Security Council resolutions. In regard to the current political developments in Somalia, the Kingdom of Bahrain welcomes the election of Mr. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud as the new President of the Somali Republic in the context of the transitional process. We call on the international community to offer its support and assistance in the restoration of peace and security in the country and in the preservation of Somalia’s territorial integrity and political independence. We commend the efforts of the Somali Government, together with the international community, to restore peace, stability and cooperation, particularly in combating piracy in the Horn of Africa. We have recently witnessed ugly insults and denigration addressed to our beloved Prophet Muhammad — peace be upon him, his family and his companions. A typical example of that is the shameful video that the Kingdom of Bahrain condemns in the strongest terms, and which led to violence and destruction around the world. Our concern is compounded by the unjustified aggression perpetrated against the diplomatic mission of the United States of America in Benghazi that killed Ambassador Christopher Stevens and a number of innocent American diplomats, in f lagrant violation of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961. In spite of these serious developments and repercussions, we should not let that gloomy scene overshadow the spectacle of the crowds that took to the streets in Libya the following day to condemn that abominable attack on the American mission. We are all responsible, as peoples and nations, to teach each other about respect. We need to redouble our efforts to prevent the recurrence of insults to religions, prophets and other religious symbols as Allah commands us in the Holy Koran: “We have created you from male and female and made you peoples and tribes that you may know one another. Indeed, the most noble of you in the sight of Allah is the most righteous of you. Indeed, Allah is all-knowing and acquainted” (The Holy Koran, XLIX:13). The Kingdom of Bahrain is among the first to have achieved most of the Millenium Development Goals (MDGs) before the prescribed time frame in the fields of education, the empowerment of women, the expansion of social security to vulnerable groups, equal opportunities for men and women, and the enhancement of health services, notably for children. Therefore, the Kingdom of Bahrain occupies an advanced position at the global level, as reflected in the United Nations Human Development Reports issued during the past few years. If the international community is to overcome the challenges facing Member States, we must be able to fully shoulder their responsibilities, especially as the deadline for achieving the MDGs is approaching. We are only three and a half years from that deadline. We have to redouble our efforts and review our policies in order to enhance national and regional capacities to avoid imbalances and to overcome challenges. According to the Millennium Development Goals Report 2012, and notwithstanding some negative indicators, child mortality has been decreasing across the world, the percentage of those living in extreme poverty has been halved, and over 89 per cent of the world’s population now has access to safe drinking water. However, it seems that other objectives are still unattainable in many countries, and inequalities continue to rise in some areas such as public health that remains dismal and a cause for great concern. That also applies to the scarcity of water resources. We therefore cannot use the global financial crisis as an excuse for reneging on our financial commitments to those countries in greatest need. In that regard, Bahrain welcomes the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, as well as the Secretary-General’s vision with regard to sustainable development. Much remains to be done, however, to ensure that people across the world not only have access to the most basic needs, but that they have the tools to maintain them over time. We must acknowledge that sustainability is not merely a response to needs but rather a principal element of human dignity. To conclude, I believe that the formidable changes and challenges our world faces today present valuable opportunities that we can exploit through wisdom, courage, patience and joint action. We must work with all our capacity to address the elements that divide us, particularly backwardness, extremism and isolationism. At the same time, we must continue to lend a hand to those most in need. We must use objectivity and honesty to challenge immobility and prejudice in order to achieve the progress, dignity and prosperity to which our peoples aspire.﻿At the outset, in the name of the Government and the people of the State of Kuwait, I have the pleasure of extending to the President and to his fraternal country, Serbia, our sincerest congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I wish him every success in his endeavours. We would also like to commend the efforts of His Excellency Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser on his successful presidency of the previous session. I would be remiss if I did not pay tribute to His Excellency Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his continued efforts in leading the Organization and spreading its noble message on the maintenance of international peace and security. I wish him every success in achieving the priorities he has set for his second term, in the political, economic and humanitarian fields. On our part, we reaffirm the continued cooperation of the State of Kuwait and its full commitment to support the efforts of the United Nations in its endeavours to achieve the aims and purposes of the Charter, as well as to strengthen and activate its role in following up the outcomes agreed upon in international forums. In that context, the State of Kuwait emphasizes the need for a thorough preparation of the 2012 conference on the establishment of a Middle East zone free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, as agreed in the Final Document of the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Numerous challenges face the Organization as it nears its seventh decade. From its inception, the United Nations and all of its organs and agencies have worked to contain and resolve many crises and to meet political, humanitarian and economic challenges. However, in this era of globalization and the information revolution, poor coordination, f laws in joint actions and the failure of some States to fulfil their obligations have prevented the United Nations from reaching conclusive solutions. Therefore, in fulfilment of the aspirations of the peoples we represent, it is important for us to work on reforming, developing and refining the United Nations, as well as providing the firm political will to enhance its performance and to face up to new challenges. There have been two decades of discussion and in-depth negotiation on the reform of the Security Council, focused mainly on the expansion of the Council’s membership, including how many members are needed to achieve an equitable degree of representation, and on improving its working methods. The State of Kuwait reaffirms the need to reform the Security Council to reflect the new international reality and to ensure that Arab and Islamic States are represented fairly, in conformity with their size, their contributions and their role in advancing the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. I should like to quote from the statement delivered by His Highness the Amir of the State of Kuwait at the Summit of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation held in the Holy City of Mecca on 13 August: “The killing and destruction that we witness on a daily basis in sisterly Syria evokes grief and pain. Sadly, a child who has lost his parents and his home, a mother mourning her nearest and dearest, cities that have turned into ghost towns owing to the horrific destruction that has befallen them — these have become all too familiar sights. Such scenes redouble our responsibilities before the Almighty as well as before all our peoples. I call upon us to move without delay to put an end to this bloody tragedy”. We would like to congratulate Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria, on his appointment. Kuwait supports him in his undertaking and his determination to continue the work of his predecessor, Mr. Kofi Annan, which yielded the six-point plan that would have resulted in a peaceful resolution of the crisis, had it been actively considered. We reaffirm Kuwait’s commitment to international efforts to reach a political solution that fulfils the demands and aspirations of the Syrian people. We would also like to redouble our efforts with the international community, to which we appeal for additional humanitarian assistance to alleviate the pain and suffering of the Syrian people, both within and outside Syria. This November, the State of Kuwait will celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the ratification of its Constitution, which is regarded as the culmination of four centuries of political progress and growth.In consolidation the development of relations between ruler and ruled towards the effective practice of democracy, the Constitution is considered the beacon that guides the State of Kuwait, its Government and people towards a dignified life by establishing rights and duties, guaranteeing basic freedoms, outlining general policies and regulating foreign relations without interference in the internal affairs of other States. The Constitution serves as an interpretation of Kuwait’s political vision, based on its belief in, and pursuit of, peace, together with its determination to develop and foster its relations with neighbouring countries, in accordance with the principles of mutual respect and common interests. Relations between Kuwait and Iraq have progressed very positively, and the State of Kuwait regards the painful wound of invasion as healed. The participation of His Highness Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Amir of the State of Kuwait, in the Arab Summit held in Baghdad in March did much to bring about a qualitative leap forward in our bilateral relations. Moreover, the visit to Kuwait by His Excellency Mr. Nuri Kamel al-Maliki, Prime Minister of Iraq, created an atmosphere of trust and determination that has helped to turn the page with respect to commitments and relations between our two countries. Subsequently, a second round of meetings of the Joint Kuwait-Iraq Ministerial Committee was convened in Baghdad in April, reflecting the desire of both sides to turn away from the past. Important understandings reflecting the interests of the our countries have been reached on some of the outstanding bilateral issues. There has been agreement also on a work programme to accelerate Iraq’s implementation of its remaining international obligations, in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions, whereupon Iraq will have fulfilled its obligations under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations and will be able to exercise its natural role regionally and internationally. That development will help to improve the climate for achieving regional security and peace, which are prerequisites for the prosperity and progress of a region that has suffered from wars and devastating conflicts for the past three decades. On the regional level, the State of Kuwait renews its call to the friendly Islamic Republic of Iran to take deliberate and effective steps towards cooperating with international efforts aim at reaching a political settlement with regard to its nuclear programme and at dispelling doubts surrounding its goals and purposes, thereby averting further crises and conflicts, which, unfortunately, have become associated with this vital region of the world. We hope that the Islamic Republic of Iran will be a positive and active party in the region, exercising its role in accordance with the basic rules and principles of mutual respect and common interests, thereby creating a normal environment of cooperation that will serve the peoples of the region, free from interference in their internal affairs. Along the same lines, we also hope that the Islamic Republic of Iran will cooperate and respond to the initiatives intended to resolve the conflict over the three occupied Emirati islands, in conformity with the principles and norms of international law. The continued Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories testifies to the inability of the international community to come up with solutions that will put an end to the plight of the Palestinian people. The Israeli Government, in gross violation of international conventions and norms, persists in its intransigence and illegal policies through its expansion of settlements in the occupied Palestinian territory, as well as through its blockade of the Gaza Strip. Those actions do not help the cause of the just and lasting peace we desire in the Middle East. We therefore demand that the international community, represented by the Security Council, put pressure on Israel and compel it to implement the resolutions of international legitimacy, the principle of land for peace, the Quartet’s road map and the Arab Peace Initiative, so as to guarantee the establishment of the Palestinian State, with East Jerusalem as its capital, and the total Israeli withdrawal from all Arab territories occupied since 4 June 1967. Some States face special and chronic challenges that have led to their marginalization on the international scene for many long years. They are at risk of becoming failed States if the international community does not redouble its efforts to help them get back on their feet and start them on a path that will enable them to function normally and to become effective participants in today’s world. In that regard, the State of Kuwait welcomes the decisions and steps taken by President Abdrabuh Mansour Hadi Mansour and the Yemeni Government to implement the Gulf Cooperation Council’s initiative and its implementation mechanism, and to support finalization of the Initiative’s remaining items. We also reaffirm our confidence that Yemen, under an elected President and a Government of national unity, is capable of achieving the development and progress in various areas that the fraternal Yemeni people aspire to. We also reaffirm our continued backing and support for the Yemeni Republic’s efforts to ensure political and economic stability. We would also like to congratulate the fraternal Republic of Somalia on the great historic accomplishment represented by its ratification of a provisional constitution and the election of Mr. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud as President. We hope that these positive developments will help lift Somalia from a state of conflict and national chaos to one governed by constitutional institutions, thus launching a new political future that will see the ambitions and aspirations of the fraternal Somali people fulfilled. We commend the positive reaction of the United Nations and the international community to the bloody events that the Muslim minority in Myanmar has been subjected to, and hope that those efforts will help to stop the violence, preserve people’s legitimate rights and enable peace to prevail. The President returned to the Chair. The peoples and Governments of Islamic countries have expressed their strong condemnation and outrage over the film denigrating the Prophet Muhammad, God’s blessing and peace be upon him, and the Islamic faith and its benevolent values. That irresponsible and impudent act has ignited extreme rage among Muslim peoples and communities all over the world, including acts of violence, destruction, and killings in some countries. While the State of Kuwait has denounced the film in the strongest possible terms, as well as the subsequent killing and destruction, which are very far from the spirit and essence of Islam, in this context I would like to recall what His Highness Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Amir of the State of Kuwait, proposed at the General Assembly’s high- level meeting on the culture of peace, held on 12 and 13 November 2008: “The best outcome to our well-intended gathering in this Hall would be a joint international commitment to respect all religions and to avoid damaging, interfering with or ridiculing their symbols, while endeavouring to deter such acts and those who advocate them.” (A/63/PV.46, p. 10) We urge the Assembly to give serious consideration at this session to the Amir’s proposal and adopt a resolution to implement it for the benefit of the whole of humankind and to promote social peace and security among nations. Our world faces numerous environmental, economic, social and security issues. Those issues are intertwined and complex and the source of many challenges to States and peoples, particularly in developing and least- developed countries. The consequences of the global financial crisis, the rise in basic commodity prices, the clear negative impact of climate change, the growing frequency of natural disasters and the intensification of terrorism have put the focus on the ugly face of poverty and hunger, as well as the spread of epidemics and communicable and dangerous diseases. Despite the notable accomplishments of many States in their efforts to reach the Millennium Development Goals, we have not yet achieved all the objectives we set ourselves as a whole. It is essential, therefore, that we pursue our joint efforts to limit the effects of the challenges we face and contain them in order to ensure our ultimate full attainment of these noble goals. While the State of Kuwait is itself considered a developing country, since gaining independence in 1961 it has embarked on a steady course in which we attach great importance to helping developing and least- developed countries. We do this through numerous mechanisms and initiatives, including the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, which gives development aid to Arab, Asian and African countries, as well as countries in Central and Latin America, based on our belief in the importance of international cooperation and helping nations and peoples in need. Based on our desire to increase joint regional and international activities and enhance their effectiveness, and in recognition of the fact that various forums held around the world have become major channels for examining regional and economic cooperation and maximizing the benefits derived from sharing States’ successful experiences, in October last year Kuwait hosted the most recent meeting of the Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD), held annually for the past 10 years at the level of Foreign Minister of the participating countries. Kuwait also called for the convening of the first Summit of the ACD countries, to be held in Kuwait on 15 and 16 October. We hope that this meeting will give leaders of Asian States the opportunity to discuss every topic of importance in the areas of economic, environmental and humanitarian affairs. In March 2013 Kuwait will also host the Arab-African Summit, which we hope will deepen Arab-African cooperation and open new horizons to serve stability, development and cooperation among the peoples of these two groups of countries. In conclusion, I affirm the State of Kuwait’s allegiance to the multilateral international system and to the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter. We also believe in the necessity for all States to abide by the obligations and responsibilities they have committed to in international agreements and conferences, thus contributing to finding just and fair solutions to global threats and challenges. The State of Kuwait believes that dialogue and the promotion of a culture of tolerance, moderation and rejection of violence and extremism are ideal means for advancing the values of equality and justice, in order to reach our higher goal — the maintenance of international peace and security.﻿I wish first to express my Government’s congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and a former Minister for Foreign Affairs of Serbia, on his country’s election to preside over the Assembly. We are very happy about that because, both in the past and currently, his country has played an active role in eliminating tensions and inequality and in strengthening the rule of law in international relations. We are firmly convinced that, during his tenure, the proceedings of the General Assembly will be conducted in a climate of consensus and solidarity among Member States. The current session of the General Assembly is being held at a time of turmoil, when many States are experiencing internal tensions, there is an acute economic crisis, developing countries and their emerging economies are encountering difficulties, the environment and the atmosphere are deteriorating, and other major catastrophes have caused the loss of human lives and the destruction of infrastructures vital to humankind. The major efforts made by the Secretary- General through the United Nations system have not been sufficient to have a decisive impact. Greater commitment, joint action and unified approaches on the part of all States are required to combat with determination the problems of concern to everyone today. In point of fact, the Secretariat has stressed the main outlines of the problems, which constitute the agenda for the current session — for instance, developing countries’ need for economic growth, the maintenance of international peace and security, the development of the African continent, the promotion of human rights and the provision of humanitarian assistance, the promotion of justice and international law, disarmament, and the need to combat drug trafficking, terrorism, the use of mercenaries, piracy and other crimes. The Republic of Equatorial Guinea wishes to stress that of all those problems none has been more destructive than underdevelopment, which the United Nations must not look upon with indifference. The annual victims of hunger and the diseases in the developing world exceed the number of victims of hostile confrontations recorded each year worldwide. The adverse effects of illiteracy, the lack of housing, and malnutrition experienced in developing countries are greater than those caused by natural disasters. In our times, ignorance and the lack of scientific and technical know-how owing to underdevelopment are more detrimental to a human being than terrorism and drug addiction. In view of all those adverse circumstances, we propose that the Economic and Social Council adopt special programmes to assist the least developed countries, with a view to their overcoming the lack of basic infrastructure which is hampering their development — programmes that the more developed countries should commit to supporting and that could serve as a basis for mutually beneficial cooperation among affected States. We cannot imagine the promotion of human rights in a society subject to the restrictions of underdevelopment. From basic human dignity itself to all the other rights necessary for a dignified existence, including physical and moral integrity, freedom and, finally, well-being — these are what determine whether people fully enjoy their universally recognized rights. There can be no question as to which comes first, human rights or economic development. We must recognize that human rights cannot be be enjoyed by people engulfed in underdevelopment. With respect to combating underdevelopment, we welcome the fact that Africa has already begun promoting programmes for economic development and modern democratic systems, which are liberating their peoples from underdevelopment despite many obstacles that still obstruct progress and attempts at perpetuating new colonialist interests in Africa. Most of the internal conflicts in Africa are supported by foreign interests that try to ensure their continued presence in the continent. As the saying goes, “If the river runs backwards, it is the fishermen who win”. We ourselves in Equatorial Guinea are very happy with the progress made in our economic development programme, which seeks to achieve an emerging economy by 2020 through the use of the resources provided by the exploitation of oil and natural gas. Thanks to those resources, we are more than meeting most of our needs in infrastructure, including roads, hospitals, schools, vocational training centres, universities, ports, airports, the drinking water supply, telephone communications, air, sea and land transportation, urban development, housing and electricity. In parallel to that programme, we have adopted radical political reforms, appropriate to the rapid development that the country is experiencing, so as to ensure the strictest possible control of the Government’s activity, to give greater freedoms to the people and to protect human rights to the utmost. Under those reforms, a leader may not remain in office for more than two terms. Parliament is being expanded for a more universal representation of the people. Economic and social decisions are to be taken on the basis of technical criteria and in the interests of society. The President must by law be assisted by an advisory body. The independence of the judicial and legislative powers is being strengthened. A body to monitor and audit public and private economic activity is being established. Lastly, an authority to protect and ensure human rights is being set up. A transition Government has been formed to implement those reforms within eight months. My Government has always been very responsive to the issue of humanitarian assistance. In that regard, Equatorial Guinea proposes the establishment of a trust fund of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) for food security in Africa that will be open to less developed countries. From this rostrum, we announce an initial contribution of $30 million. We call on African countries and other donors to make their contributions in support of that initiative. My Government’s humanitarian spirit has always aspired to setting up initiatives that support humankind’s development. Equatorial Guinea therefore established the Equatorial Guinea UNESCO prize to encourage the scientific community to research the possibility of finding life-saving cures, in particular for those suffering from AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. The Director-General of FAO agreed to the initiative to set up such a fund. With regard to the other important items on our agenda, we understand that international peace and security essentially depend on respect for the principles of international law: respect for the independence, national sovereignty and territorial integrity of each State; the sovereign equality of nations and non-interference in the internal affairs of other States; respect for, and compliance with, international commitments; and the promotion of mutually beneficial and fair friendship and cooperation relations among States. Those norms are the basis for promoting justice and law in international relations, and no State or group of States should step forward to police their implementation. Such an act usurps the authority of the United Nations and undermines its effectiveness. The United Nations should impose its authority at the international level, avoiding any possible manipulation through external pressure from those that violate the spirit of its principles. Meanwhile, Equatorial Guinea endorses the wishes of the entire African continent to obtain a response to one of its legitimate demands, made on various occasions, namely, Security Council reform by increasing the number of Council members in both categories and reserving two seats as permanent members and five as non-permanent members for the African region. Democratic principles and the law are advocated at the United Nations. Africa claims its rights, including in the Security Council. Africa wishes to participate in the taking of decisions that affect its future. With the assistance of all, we will succeed in adopting appropriate measures to reduce the tendency towards unilateralism and hegemony in international relations. We will succeed in mitigating the effects of policies that threaten the peace and sovereignty of States and that oppose the economic and social development of peoples, thereby significantly violating the principles of international law. With regard to disarmament, which Equatorial Guinea fully supports even though it is neither a manufacturer nor a consumer of any sophisticated weapons of mass destruction, we believe that there should be no ambiguity on that issue. One cannot have the best of both worlds. We do not believe there to be a threat from other planets of the solar system or other bodies in outer space. The possession of nuclear weapons or weapons of mass destruction is a disgrace to today’s humankind, which is preparing its own destruction. So who should arm themselves and who should be disarmed? The end of the Cold War was supposed to also mean the end of the arms race. It is now time for humankind to build its own future instead of wasting resources on extermination plans. Those that adopt embargoes against certain Governments should not be insensitive to their repercussions and to the suffering that they cause to the population, in particular the most vulnerable sectors. Such measures run counter to the Millennium Development Goals adopted by the United Nations. Sanctions and embargoes, whatever their real nature, should always take into account the humanitarian component with regard to the people who are suffering. Therefore, we would suggest that the rights of the individual be given priority whenever any kind of sanctions are adopted. Accordingly, we appeal for the suspension of the embargo against Cuba. We will return to Equatorial Guinea with the sincere hope that the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly will be a milestone in the process of humanizing international relations.﻿My country extends heartfelt congratulations to Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his assumption of his responsibilities as President of the General Assembly at this crucially important session. We also express our appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser of the State of Qatar, who left an indelible mark on the General Assembly. We meet again in the quest for development, equity, and peace. Last year, our debate took place against the backdrop of rapid, often violent, geopolitical change, as well as continuing economic instability and uncertainty. Last year’s general debate, though marked by winds of change and clouds of uncertainty, was not without hope and optimism. Member States anticipated meaningful progress at the United Nations Summit on Sustainable Development. We predicted a robust and legally binding arms trade treaty. We embraced popular, home-grown calls for political change. And we scanned the economic horizon for encouraging signs of recovery and growth. Today, global optimism, though still enduringly present, is in scarcer supply, as the international community has encountered the challenges of a new world and found itself wanting. Our global structures, including the United Nations, are faced with changes of a scope, scale and rapidity that substantially outpace our ability to react, partly exceed our capacity to respond, and demand a level of courage, principle and decisiveness that is not sufficiently matched by our political will. Today, we are not merely spectators watching a moment of global change; rather, we are nations in the valley of decision, confronted with two questions that we must answer: “What is our vision of tomorrow’s post-crisis, post-conflict world?” And: “How, collectively, can we achieve that vision?” Our avoidance of these fundamental questions threatens to set our Assembly adrift and rudderless, shirking responsibility and afraid of action. We must resist the temptation to bury our heads in the shifting sands of meaningless resolutions while we studiously disregard our imperative quest for a unifying principle and purpose. To succumb to such a temptation would be to condemn this institution to a future marked not by new ideas, but new rationalizations. Our noble battle of ideas will descend into a battalion of excuses; of blame-sharing and buck-passing; of soundbites disguised as insights. Such a future, which we are on a path to realize, would do a disservice to our respective States, our international obligations, and the proud history of the United Nations. We would, by our impotence, acquiesce to the possible obsolescence of this Organization, as peoples and Governments would, justifiably or not, turn elsewhere for the solutions to global challenges. Such a future can and must be vigorously avoided, in the interest of our peoples’ collective advancement and humanity. In our Caribbean region, the global economic and financial meltdown continues to be felt most acutely by the poor, the youth, the elderly and the vulnerable, who bear no responsibility for the rampant financial speculation and unregulated movement of capital that spurred the crisis. Today, four years into an externally imposed meltdown which has produced negative or marginal growth across the Caribbean, our region is forced to contemplate the implications of a potential “lost decade” of development. Our region is not immune to the economic pressures and fissures that have turned other parts of the world into tinderboxes of social unrest and political upheaval. Our citizens, who have nobly struggled under the weight of externally sourced contraction, austerity and hardship, are not possessed of limitless patience or endurance. Our hard-won development gains are in jeopardy, and our settled political stability is in possible peril. The international community cannot ignore our plight based on a distorted calculus of middle-income status and relative prosperity, or on simplistic, even offensive, stereotypes of Caribbean paradises. Small, highly indebted middle-income developing countries, like those in the Caribbean, which are very vulnerable to natural disasters and international economic convulsions, have special concerns which the international community is obliged to address properly, in partnership with the peoples of our region. External shocks derived from nature or the workings of an uneven, casino capitalism, are not merely episodic to our Caribbean; they are a constant feature of our regional economies. Central to our urgent re-examination and reconfiguration of the existing economic apparatus is the recognition that our modern context and individual national characteristics do not lend themselves to strict classical or Keynesian economic prescriptions or their variants. In the case of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and our Caribbean neighbours, our peculiarities of small size, openness and vulnerability require uniquely home-grown economic policies that are rooted not in any prevailing ideology or fashionable theories from outside, but in a sensible, flexible and focused practicality. We have little interest in esoteric arguments about the role of the State in economic activity, because, historically, our national Governments have been a force for good in the stimulation, diversification and growth of our economies in tandem with the private and cooperative sectors. While we welcome and solicit assistance and consultations with the relevant institutions and organizations, such consultations ought to be free of the type of textbook orthodoxies or formulaic prescriptions that are inapplicable to our times and circumstances. Our path to development must be our own. The cause of development, as a goal and as a right, has suffered from the neglect of the international community in recent, post-crisis years. Within the United Nations system, the current budget for peacekeeping dwarfs the resources allocated to fostering development, even as we recognize that most conflict is rooted in underdevelopment. The age-old pledges of development assistance have been skirted, and their fulfilment delayed, by States that cite their own struggles with the global economic fallout. As a result, even as we contemplate post-2015 sustainable development goals, it is painfully apparent that the Millennium Development Goals will not be met across large swaths of our planet. The poor, especially in Asia, Africa, the Pacific, Latin America and the Caribbean, can hardly be expected to wait any longer for relief and sustainable development. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is thankful to the nations and organizations that have found it possible to continue extending their hand in cooperation with our people, even in difficult economic times. The support and assistance of those States and organizations is a mark of their friendship, solidarity and strong global citizenship. The prolonged global economic uncertainties have propelled the international economy into a dangerous new phase. Even the International Monetary Fund has so concluded. In the process, the crisis has found the principals wanting, even unaware of the extant condition, with no clear idea as to the way forward. In both economics and politics, the ancien régime is passing. The discerning acknowledge that a transition is at large, but immense challenges arise immediately from at least four pertinent queries: first, is the transition manageable, or must it be played out in a chaotic manner? Secondly, assuming that the transition is manageable, how is it to be managed in the most efficacious way, and in whose interest? Thirdly, is this transition a dead end? And fourthly, given that the transition itself, like all human conditions, is dynamic, what is the destination of this transition? It is a truism that men and women make history not in circumstances of their own choosing, but in those which they meet, which they inherit, and which emerge on their watch. Noteworthy is the fact that the histories of nations and the ghosts of the dead weigh heavily on the brains of the living. Often unacknowledged is the abiding truth that each people possesses its own history, its own legitimacy, its own nobility and its own trajectory for further ennoblement. Unfortunately, the power of some to define things globally distorts these elemental truths. It is well known that the lion’s view of history does not coincide with that of the gazelle or the lamb; the elephant and the ant do not see things eye to eye. But human beings possess the capacity to go beyond the limitations of the animal kingdom. That is fundamentally why we have gathered together under the rubric of the United Nations, with a Charter so uplifting and magnificent in its ideals and purposes as to constitute the best hope for the human race. Arrogant and unbridled power, from whatever source, is thus to be contained. It is always wise to remember that the greatest exercise of power is restraint in the use of that power. That is true within and between nations. It is the surest way for the malevolent across the globe to be accorded no space to flourish and to be defeated. It is within this context that the text of a prosperous, safe, independent Palestinian State must be written alongside a secure State of Israel, living in friendship and non-belligerence. This is a matter of grave urgency; the injustice meted out to Palestine must end now. So, too, must continue our global quest for interfaith dialogue and an alliance of civilizations, initiated by the Governments of Qatar and Turkey, respectively. Similarly, let us not forget our pledge of solidarity to Haiti. Likewise, reparations for the genocides committed against indigenous peoples and for African slavery must continue to be pursued vigorously on our international agenda. All of that and more is achievable by the United Nations. Thus, our collective will can bear fruit abundantly through the strengths and possibilities of wise leadership, peaceful dialogue among and between sovereign nations, international cooperation and regional compacts. Closer to home, our developmental and political partnerships increasingly reflect a spirit of strengthened regional integration and greater South- South cooperation. In the immediate post-colonial phase of our national development, the nations of the Caribbean and Latin America often have had stronger and closer relationships with distant colonial Powers and developed nations than we did with the countries in our immediate neighbourhood. After centuries of colonial conquest, settlement and exploitation, our deepening bonds of friendship, cooperation and integration within the Caribbean and Latin America are a fundamental manifestation of our States’ growing independence and political maturity. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines enjoys membership in a number of interconnected circles of regional integration. The Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) is in an economic union with a shared currency, judiciary and nascent representative Assembly. The 15-member Caribbean Community (CARICOM) also furthers the cause of Caribbean integration with important implications for trade and the free movement of people. Our State is a proud member of the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America, which has created bonds of socioeconomic solidarity and cooperation among Caribbean, Central and South American States. The Caribbean Forum of African, Caribbean and Pacific States, the Association of Caribbean States, and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States are also home-grown manifestations of our peoples’ desire to forge linkages and partnerships with our regional brothers and sisters. The strength and genuine cohesion of those growing regional integration initiatives is built on a solid foundation of shared experiences and values, which deserve the support of the United Nations. The members of OECS and CARICOM are bastions of good governance, democracy and the rule of law, and we share those experiences and aspirations with our South and Central American sister States, which have also established unshakeable foundations of democracy and good governance after fitful periods of political unrest and foreign interference in the past. The upcoming 7 October presidential election in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is but one example of the manner in which that country and the region continue to institutionalize popular, participatory democratic systems that reflect and respect the will of the people. As we strengthen relations with our immediate neighbours, we remain deeply committed to our historical ties and traditional friendships. The bonds that we share with our friends in Europe, Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States are as strong as they are mutually beneficial. As a multi-island nation, the people of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines have always been highly migratory and outward- looking — so much so that even the words of our national anthem memorialize our proclivity for travel to distant lands. Many of the largest and most vibrant cities of our nationals exist not in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, but in major metropolitan hubs, including those in Brooklyn, Toronto and London. Those productive and hard-working centres, and many others, have immeasurably enriched their adopted homes and provided needed remittances to relatives in the land of their birth. We remain grateful to those friendly States that have opened their doors and embrace to our migrants, and we view the ongoing, hassle-free movement of our peoples back and forth as the truest testament of our friendship and solidarity. The recent increase in regional conflicts and unrest around the world cannot be ignored. The hopefulness and idealistic optimism that were much in evidence during the early days of the so-called Arab Spring have been replaced by a cynical fatalism and rampant opportunism in many important quarters. In other continents, some nations flirt with border wars, while others grapple with insidious and barbaric terrorism. In the midst of the global upheaval, we have witnessed the aggressive re-emergence of those that would seek to reshape the world in their own image and to their own purposes. Would-be interventionists, unilateralists and hegemons, both new and old, have rushed to fill and exploit political vacuums, to settle ancient grudges and to strengthen their grip on global or regional power. It is a pattern that predates colonialism and the Cold War and one that once again brings into focus many of the United Nations founding principles. Those principles cannot be ignored, reinterpreted or sacrificed on the altar of poll-driven political expediency and electoral ambition. We have bound ourselves together in the solemn goal of promoting peace, not fostering wars; of self-determination, not unilateral intervention; of the economic and social advancement of all peoples, not the callous disregard for the well-being of our fellow human beings. To depart from those principles, explicitly or by implication, would be to abandon the better angels of our nature and to succumb to the forces that made this institution necessary in the first place. The war against global terror is real, and it is being fought by all responsible States on multiple fronts. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is firm and unequivocal in its rejection of all forms of terrorist activity and its revulsion at the methods and twisted logic that accompany that barbarism. Our friends and brothers in the United States of America are unfortunately and disproportionately targeted by those repulsive killers, most recently in the deeply saddening murder of Christopher Stevens, the United States Ambassador to Libya, and some of his staff. We support unreservedly the determination of the United States to bring Ambassador Stevens’s killers to justice. At the same time, we are baff led by the continued reference to the Republic of Cuba in some quarters as a State sponsor of terrorism. The undisputed evidence is that Cuba neither supports nor harbours terrorists of any type. Indeed, the Cuban Government, itself a victim of orchestrated terror campaigns, has cooperated on numerous occasions with the Governments of both allies and ideological opponents in the fight against terrorism. It has also played a useful and constructive role in facilitating peace talks between Governments and armed rebel groups in Latin America. Those facts are not contested. Therefore, to label Cuba a State sponsor of terrorism, in any context, is to cheapen our shared global struggle against that insidious scourge. In his famous 1960 speech to the General Assembly, then President Fidel Castro observed that hysteria could go to any length and was capable of making the most far-fetched and absurd claims. That particular absurd and far-fetched claim, like the absurdity that undergirds the continued economic embargo against Cuba, is one that is best abandoned. The fascinating rapprochement unfolding across the Taiwan straits between the People’s Republic of China and the Republic of China on Taiwan lends practical weight to the reasonable and overdue call for Taiwan’s meaningful participation in the specialized agencies of the United Nations. My country and several others in the Caribbean and Central America bear witness to Taiwan’s principled conduct of its intergovernmental relations. Surely the time has now come for this exemplar of the magnificent Chinese civilization to be permitted to participate in the work of various agencies of this world body. Allow me to turn to certain existential challenges facing my country, my region, and the world. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is angered by the continuing and inexcusable failure of the States assembled in this Hall to move decisively towards a meaningful and legally binding climate change treaty. Entire nations, represented here today as friends and equals, may simply cease to exist as a result of our inaction and political cowardice. Other nations, including my own, are already the victims of increasingly intense and frequent storms, hurricanes and weather events. These changes not only threaten our way of life but risk reversing our recent development progress. The islands of our planet are at war against climate change, warming temperatures and rising seas. That war is not a future event, it is a present-day and ongoing battle. As all of us in this Assembly are aware, it is a war that we are currently losing. The survival of our islands is at stake, and the responsibility for immediate change lies undisputedly with those whose reckless pollution over generations has led us to the brink of catastrophe. In a different time and context, Winston Churchill inspired his people with the words “we shall fight on the seas and oceans... we shall defend our island, whatever the cost may be”. Today, know this: We shall fight the rising seas and encroaching oceans and defend our islands’ right to exist at any cost. We call on all nations to join us in the fight, for that is a war that can still be won. Our negotiations to arrest climate change are not merely some arcane academic or diplomatic pursuit, and they cannot be treated as some interminable, run-of-the-mill United Nations process. Let us set aside narrow, short-term interests and act as we are capable of acting: for the benefit and protection of all mankind. Another existential threat whose solution has fallen victim to United Nations paralysis is our common pursuit of a global, robust and binding arms trade treaty. In the Caribbean, over 70 per cent of homicides are committed with firearms, a remarkable statistic for a region that produces not one single gun or bullet. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines has a largely unarmed constabulary and lacks a standing army, yet we struggle daily against an influx of illicit and untraceable firearms that pose a grave threat to our national security and way of life. The producers of firearms, as well as the source and destination markets for illicit narcotics, can and must cooperate to restrict and regulate the international f low of small arms, light weapons and ammunition. While we have failed in our initial attempt to forge an arms trade treaty, I call on members at this session of the General Assembly to redouble their efforts to negotiate a binding agreement in this matter before we reconvene next September. This year it is imperative, too, that the United Nations continue its focused work in the fight against non-communicable diseases, which the Caribbean Community has rightly placed at the forefront of the global agenda. The people of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines are strong and fiercely independent. Ours is an independence forged in the heroic struggles of our indigenous and Garifuna peoples against genocide and hardened in the fires of our resistance to slavery, indentureship, and colonial and neocolonial domination. Our strength, independence and sovereignty do not permit us to look to the United Nations or any other country or group of countries for the solutions to our own problems and challenges. However, as a small State in an interconnected world, we recognize that many of the difficulties we face have been born and incubated beyond our national boundaries. The United Nations therefore is our primary multilateral forum to address and confront those externally imposed challenges. My statement today is not intended merely to chronicle the global ills that have befallen Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. No. It is a call for principled and practical global action to address and resolve these problems. To do so, we stand ready to work with the President and with all States in this Assembly to effect meaningful change throughout our planet. As the great novelist Ernest Hemingway once wrote, “Moral courage is a rarer commodity than bravery in battle or great intelligence. Yet it is the one essential, vital quality of those who seek to change a world which yields most painfully to change”. Today, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines calls on this body, and on all nations assembled here, to harness that essential moral courage to produce change in a world whose potential is limitless, and whose problems are soluble. The rhetoric of change and hope may lack the cachet that it enjoyed hitherto, but we still believe that our peoples and Governments possess within them the courage and conviction collectively to change and materially improve the condition of our nations’ citizens. Let us at this sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly establish conclusively that that faith is well placed. We move with our burdens from yesterday. We go forward with our strengths and possibilities tomorrow.﻿On behalf of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, let me congratulate President Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly. He can count on the full support of my country as he assumes this major responsibility. The General Assembly is the central body of the United Nations architecture. Here all Member States are represented, and each has a vote, irrespective of its size, its population or its economic power. The Assembly truly is the concert of nations embodying the principle of the sovereign equality of all Member States. To President Jeremić, the conductor of the concert of States here assembled, we wish inspiration, passion and wisdom. Luxembourg is proud to have been part, since the very beginning, of the peace project that is the United Nations. Our then Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Joseph Beck, in presenting the Charter of the United Nations Charter — signed a few weeks earlier in San Francisco — to the Luxembourg Parliament on 9 August 1945, spoke the following visionary words: “It is in the work of the United Nations that our country found the hope of rebirth in its darkest hour; it is within the United Nations that it has taken up its place as an independent State, as a free country; it is among these peaceful countries, just united by the Organization of San Francisco in the wonderful hope of a lasting peace, that it will find the guarantees of a future which are necessary for its renewal”. History has vindicated him. Determined, with the other peoples of the United Nations, to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, Luxembourg found in the United Nations and in multilateralism in general the ideal framework to flourish as an independent, sovereign State, free to choose for itself. Luxembourg has been able to prosper thanks to the peace it has enjoyed since 1945. In return, we have resolutely committed ourselves, within the United Nations, to contribute to building peace and to promoting sustainable development for the greatest number possible. President Jeremić has rightly chosen the peaceful settlement of disputes as the theme of the general debate at the current session. It is one of the overarching objectives of our Organization, aimed at enabling it to maintain international peace and security. To settle disputes peacefully, the Charter has attributed a major role not only to the Security Council, but also to the General Assembly and to the International Court of Justice. The Syrian crisis, which has lasted already 18 months, continues to get worse. It has now claimed more than 20,000 victims. Repercussions on neighbouring countries continue to intensify. The crisis is a call on our collective conscience and puts our commitment to the test. Some are tempted to accuse the United Nations of inaction. However, the fault lies elsewhere. Those responsible for the terrifying violence, the war crimes, the egregious human rights violations and crimes against humanity committed in Syria will one day have to answer for them. Such is Luxembourg’s firm conviction. The failure to this day of attempts to resolve the Syrian crisis through peaceful means must not lead us to neglect the quest for political solutions to other crises. Luxembourg has consistently advocated a peaceful settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. That conflict has been going on for far too long. It is essential that the parties resume direct negotiations and negotiate a sustainable peace among themselves, with the support of the Quartet. The path will no doubt be arduous, but the objective is worth it for the Israelis, the Palestinians and the region as a whole. We would like to see an independent, democratic, contiguous and viable State of Palestine, living side by side with the State of Israel in peace and security. Luxembourg has for many years now supported the building of the Palestinian State at both the political and the economic levels. We also support Palestine’s aspirations to assume its place among the nations of the world. We provide financial support to the Palestinian Authority in order to assist it in making its public administration and basic social services work, and we are also a reliable partner of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East. Under an agreement signed in February 2012, Luxembourg will provide assistance in the amount of €15 million to Palestine refugees throughout the period 2012-2015. Allow me to give a few other examples to illustrate how Luxembourg is contributing to the peaceful settlement of international disputes. First, as was recalled during the High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law, Luxembourg was one of the very first States to recognize the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice as compulsory. The Court elucidates and develops international law and thereby strengthens peaceful relations between States. Next, Luxembourg supports preventive diplomacy and mediation activities as well as the good offices undertaken by the United Nations. Our support in that area also benefits regional organizations, such as the African Union. Finally, Luxembourg also supports civil society, as it did in 2010, when it backed the mediation efforts by the Community of Sant’Egidio between political and civil society actors in Guinea and the Niger. Luxembourg, a multicultural and multilingual State by virtue of its history, its geographical location and the composition of its population, has often played the role of mediator between its large European neighbours and within the European Union. Building on a balanced foreign policy, free from the legacy of a colonial past and defined by an unwavering commitment to multilateralism, Luxembourg is at the service of the United Nations when it comes to playing the role of honest broker and assuming the responsibilities that come with that role. In 2009, moreover, Luxembourg had the honour of chairing the Economic and Social Council at a crucial juncture marked by the devastating effects of the global economic and financial crisis of 2008. My country has also been a linchpin of the Peacebuilding Commission since its inception in 2005. Since February 2011, the Permanent Representative of Luxembourg to the United Nations, Ambassador Sylvie Lucas, has chaired the Guinea configuration of the Peacebuilding Commission. Luxembourg is honoured to be able to marshal the efforts of the international community in support of the authorities in Conakry, who have asked to be assisted in three priority areas: national reconciliation, security sector reform, and youth and women’s employment. Our commitment stems from our conviction that we need to adopt a global approach towards peacebuilding and towards the maintenance of international peace and security — an approach that recognizes the intrinsic link between security and development. Indeed, to ensure lasting peace, one must tackle the root causes of conflicts. Luxembourg is concentrating on two of these: social inequalities resulting from persistent poverty, and the increasing scarcity of natural resources as a result of climate change. The fight against poverty is one of our stated priorities. Since 2000, Luxembourg has reached the goal set by the United Nations of dedicating at least 0.7 per cent of its gross national income to official development assistance. In 2009 and 2010, that assistance exceeded the threshold of 1 per cent of our gross national income. The Government of Luxembourg is determined to maintain that effort despite budgetary constraints. Our assistance is benefiting the least developed countries in particular. Here again, we exceed the goal set by the United Nations by dedicating more than 0.2 per cent of our gross national income to those countries, the majority of which are in Africa. Beyond simple statistics, those figures reflect our spirit of solidarity towards developing countries. That spirit drives not only our political decision-makers and our development cooperation experts but also the numerous citizens who are acting through civil society organizations. My family is proud to participate in that movement of solidarity. My wife, the Grand Duchess, invests herself fully in the social sector as a UNICEF Eminent Advocate for Children, notably in Burundi. She has been passionate about microfinance for many years and has completed numerous projects in that area. As the report of the Secretary-General (A/67/1) highlights, we have achieved, worldwide, some essential targets of the Millennium Development Goals ahead of time. However, the effects of global warming are catastrophic and are threatening to undo the progress that has been accomplished. In the least developed countries, the situation is particularly worrisome. It is therefore essential that we act resolutely in that area. Progress has been made at the Conferences of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Cancún and then in Durban. We now need further commitments to be made in terms of reducing carbon emissions. Another major challenge lies in the mobilization of adequate financial and technological resources to enable the most vulnerable countries, in particular, the least developed countries, the landlocked developing countries and the small island developing States, to adapt to the effects of climate change. Luxembourg is acting to meet that challenge. We have thus decided to join an important programme of support for renewable energy that would meet the specific needs of Pacific small island developing States. I personally attended the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Brazil in June in order to show how high a priority the sustainable development of our planet is for my country. None of us has the means to make it on our own. Our interdependence pushes us to act together. It is a matter of survival. And it is within the United Nations that we must organize our collective survival. I would be remiss if I failed to mention another priority for Luxembourg in terms of conflict prevention, namely, disarmament and non-proliferation. Luxembourg promotes the constant search for security at the lowest level of armaments. It is a party to all relevant global and regional treaties and conventions and, despite the setback that the international community suffered this year, we remain committed to working towards an arms trade treaty, which would help Member States to effectively combat the scourge of uncontrolled arms circulation. When conflicts break out despite attempts to prevent them, Luxembourg does not shy away from committing itself. My country participates quite regularly and actively in peacekeeping operations. At the present time, Luxembourg troops are contributing to efforts under the United Nations mandate in Kosovo, Lebanon and Afghanistan. Through its contributions to European Union missions, Luxembourg has also assumed responsibilities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in the fight against piracy off the coast of Somalia and in the Sahel region, where the international community must redouble its efforts to prevent terrorist groups linked to transnational organized crime from taking root. All the areas of action I have touched upon here show how indispensable the United Nations is. If we are convinced of the relevance of a multilateral approach founded on the United Nations, we must give the Organization the means to be a true centre of multilateral action. For that, we need to continue to press ahead with United Nations reform, including Security Council reform. We are all aware of the need to make the Security Council more inclusive and more representative of today’s realities and to make it more effective and transparent by continuing to improve its working methods. Africa should finally take its rightful place on the Council, in particular among the permanent members. It is also important to ensure adequate representation for small States, which represent the vast majority of the Member States of the Organization. Luxembourg’s action in the United Nations since 1945 can be summarized by three key words: commitment, solidarity, responsibility. Yet, although Luxembourg has consistently proved its solidarity and commitment and has taken on responsibilities at the United Nations, it has not ever had the honour of serving on the Security Council. Building on its commitment to peacekeeping operations and peacebuilding activities, Luxembourg declared its candidature 11 years ago for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the period 2013-2014. Luxembourg stands ready to share primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, which the States Members of the United Nations have conferred on the Security Council under the Charter. Commitment to effective multilateralism does not depend on size. During his official visit to Luxembourg on 17 April 2012, when he addressed our Parliament and thus our country, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon made the following eloquent pronouncement: “You have shown that it is not the size of a nation’s territory that makes the difference. It is the size of a nation’s heart. It is the breadth of a nation’s vision. It is the depth of a nation’s promise to the wider world.” That recognition honours us. It has further strengthened Luxembourg’s resolve to prove itself up to the task and to serve the United Nations. ﻿Allow me to congratulate Mr. Jeremić on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and also to commend his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for his effective leadership during the sixty-sixth session. The President can be assured of my delegation’s full support and cooperation during his tenure. This body was a very different place when Minister Paul-Henri Spaak, another presidential predecessor, opened the first session of the General Assembly. The world had just emerged from the most devastating carnage it had ever seen, and the United Nations had the enormous task of stitching civilization back together again. Finding common purpose among the original 51 Member States promised to be a Herculean effort — a similar endeavour had faltered only a decade earlier — but the stakes were far too high for failure to be an option. Accordingly, the Organization embarked in earnest on the long process of strengthening the rule of international law based on the principles of non-aggression and the sovereign equality of all nations. It is a testament to the success of those early efforts that the membership of the United Nations has swelled to 193 countries and the past 67 years have been a period of relative stability. While the benefits of multilateralism during this time were often shared unequally, as were the costs, the promise of a more stable and secure future for all imbued the United Nations with the legitimacy it needed to pursue its ambitious mandate. But we must never forget that the legitimacy underpinning our essential work here is not a birthright; we must earn it. When our words become hollow, that legitimacy is threatened. The work of our early predecessors was one of construction. The task at hand today, perhaps even more challenging, is one of restoration. We are awash in unfulfilled promises stretching back decades. Barring a brief resurgence in the early 1990s, multilateralism has for the most part deteriorated into a scramble for finite resources, a destructive fight for a bigger piece of the economic pie, sugarcoated with empty rhetoric. Look at the beginning of any international agreement and you will find reaffirmation upon reaffirmation of our non-binding commitments to live up to our lofty ideals. Perhaps their greatest value is as a reminder of how often very little has been achieved. Our words must have meaning if our multilateral institutions are to remain effective in addressing emerging global challenges. Once again, the stakes are too high for failure to be an option.That dynamic could not be more evident than it was in the climate change negotiations. This summer, we were treated to a new round of truly terrifying news. Arctic sea ice dropped to its lowest extent in recorded history, shattering the previous record by a jaw-dropping 18 per cent. Some scientists are now predicting that the Arctic Ocean could be ice-free during summer in as little as five years. The ice melt is already wreaking significant havoc on weather patterns around the globe and has probably contributed to the historic heat waves that struck many places this year. Just last week, a new study found that half of all coral reefs could be lost with a temperature rise above 1.2 degrees Celsius. The scientists further concluded: “There is little doubt... coral reefs will no longer be prominent within coastal ecosystems if global average temperatures exceed 2 degrees Celsius...” That would be devastating for the economies of small islands and coastal communities around the world, not to mention the staggering and irrevocable loss of biodiversity that would be incurred by our shared natural heritage. More and more studies are concluding that the door to limiting temperature rise to even 2 degrees is rapidly closing, if it has not closed already. Meanwhile, greenhouse-gas emissions continue to climb higher each year, with no end in sight. Small islands may be the canary in the coal mine, but we all are staring a global catastrophe right in the face. It is revealing just how much our ambition to address the crisis has been downscaled in just three years. The fifteenth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, held in Copenhagen, was the conference to save the world. The United Nations Climate Change Conference, held in Cancún, Mexico, was the conference to save the process. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, held in Durban, South Africa, it seems, was the conference to save the rest for later. Instead of increasing the urgency of our work to respond to the growing climate crisis, we have instead seen the steady dismantling of the international regime and a concerted effort to delay additional action until 2020. Such an outcome is unacceptable. If multilateralism is to have any credibility, then we must move to an emergency footing, and those countries with the greatest capacity must immediately begin mobilizing the significant resources necessary to remake the energy infrastructure that powers the global economy. That must begin at the eighteenth session of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Doha with the reprioritization of pre-2020 mitigation ambition and the mobilization of means of implementation, including finance, technology and capacity-building. Nauru’s delegation will arrive in Doha prepared to make its contribution to the global effort. We have adopted a very ambitious renewable energy goal of 50 per cent by 2015. We think we can achieve it, but we will need climate financing from international sources to do so. As with most developing countries, obtaining the means of implementation will be the key to unlocking our ambition. The ultimate objective of the Convention on Climate Change is to stabilize greenhouse gases at a level that averts dangerous interference with the climate system so that ecosystems can adapt naturally, food production is not threatened and economic development can proceed in a sustainable manner. We should stop pretending that this is still within reach. We must realize that we have polluted the atmosphere so much that many dangerous climate change impacts are now unavoidable. Therefore, the United Nations system must begin analysing and addressing the security implications of climate change. Climate change will become an increasing driver of conflict in the future if we do not take steps now. Increased competition over dwindling natural resources, food and water insecurity, and forced migration are just a few of the security issues that climate change is expected to exacerbate. For that reason, the Pacific small island developing States (SIDS) have called for the appointment of a special representative on climate and security, supported by adequate resources, to begin analysing the security threats of climate change and to work with interested Member States to build their resilience. In addition, the Secretary-General of the United Nations should be requested to conduct an assessment of the United Nations system’s capacity to respond to the various security implications of climate change. Member States, particularly the most vulnerable, must have confidence that the international community has the tools and resources to respond to the crisis. Some countries have been sceptical of Security Council involvement in climate change. That is understandable because the Council’s current composition does not accurately reflect the diversity of United Nations membership. The time has come for this to be remedied. However, reform should not be limited merely to membership. The Council must also provide a forum for addressing the security challenges of all countries, not just those of concern to the most powerful. The United Nations sustainable development initiatives have been graced with an abundance of lofty rhetoric but few resources. Many countries, including my own, are not on track to meet their Millennium Development Goals, and in some cases have suffered setbacks because of the recent global economic downturn. At the same time, the f low of official development assistance from some channels has diminished, further jeopardizing our ability to achieve our MDGs. We often forget that oceans cover 70 per cent of the Earth’s surface and that healthy marine ecosystems are vital to the sustainable development and sustainable livelihoods of small islands. For many of us, the only valuable natural resource we have is our fish. It forms the cornerstone of our efforts to eradicate poverty and provide livelihoods for our people. For us, fishing is not just another economic sector — it is often the only significant economic sector, and we must jealously guard our modest natural wealth so that it can provide for many generations to come. While the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio had few concrete deliverables, it did capture the Pacific SIDS vision of a blue economy. If fully implemented, the new provisions could help stem the steep decline in fish stocks. We welcome the recognition of ocean acidification as an emergent threat, and we must work collectively to build the resilience of marine ecosystems to climate change impacts. The commitments made in Rio must be backed by real resources so they can be translated into concrete results on the ground. Rio also infused new energy into making islands a model for sustainable development by agreeing to convene the third Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, which is to be held in the Pacific in 2014. The Conference will provide an opportunity for the international community to make good on the promises of the Barbados Programme of Action and the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation by setting specific goals and mobilizing real resources. We call on the international community to provide support for the Conference and to summon the political will necessary to make it a success. It was agreed at the first Earth Summit that the sustainable development of SIDS would be the first test of the global partnership. We must demonstrate to the world that this partnership means something. A central aspect of that work must be enhancing the international system to better target the unique combination of challenges faced by SIDS, which should include the creation of a formal SIDS category at the United Nations. It is clear from 20 years of experience that the current arrangements for improving the sustainabIe development prospects of SIDS are ineffective. We must demonstrate that the multilateral system is nimble enough to evolve in response to the shortcomings that have been identified. Nauru welcomes the attention that the theme of this year’s general debate brings to the need to address disputes by peaceful means, and it commends the efforts made by Taiwan and China to reduce tensions and increase cooperation. I call on Member States to support continuing dialogue between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait and the parties concerned in the East China Sea dispute to recognize Taiwan’s positive role in consolidating peace and stability in East Asia. Nauru urges a rapid and peaceful settlement of the situation in South Ossetia and Abkhazia in a manner that treats those affected with dignity and that respects their rights as a sovereign nation. Nauru continues to support the right of Israel to live free from the fear of terrorism. We also acknowledge Palestine’s right to statehood as part of a two-State solution, which can be achieved only through peaceful means. The challenges facing the international community are great and can be solved only by concerted multilateral action. President Jeremić’s task and ours is to begin the process of rebuilding the Organization. That process must restore the integrity of the institution entrusted with the protection of human dignity. It was accomplished once before in the aftermath of a catastrophe. This time, our goal must be to prevent one. I pledge Nauru’s full support in that endeavour.﻿I congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić and the people of Serbia on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty- seventh session. I would like to assure him of Liberia’s full cooperation and support as he carries out the responsibilities entrusted to him in steering the affairs of this session. I would also like to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser of the State of Qatar, for his capable stewardship of the affairs of the sixty-sixth session and the many bold initiatives undertaken in the interests of world peace during his tenure. My highest commendation goes to Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon, who continues to demonstrate sound leadership in the face of new and complicated challenges. He has begun his second term with renewed vigour and a clear articulation of the priorities that represent the major concerns of the international community. The selection of the theme for this session, which calls for the settlement of disputes by peaceful means, could not have been more appropriate. When we review the state of the world, we see an international landscape checkered with armed conflict, economic crises and environmental degradation. For those who have been through the painful experience of conflict, including my own country, Liberia, this year’s theme becomes very pertinent. The cost of conflict in lives and infrastructural destruction makes us doubly appreciative of the value of preventive action in averting conflict. The need for conflict prevention takes on added urgency, because most conflicts are internal, engendered by marginalization, inequity and injustice. It becomes imperative, therefore, to identify and remove those triggers of conflict before they cause explosions. Our Government’s efforts to achieve the twin objectives of conflict prevention and peace consolidation are being reinforced through our engagement with the peacekeeping and peacebuilding architecture of the United Nations. In an environment of peace, we have prioritized actions aimed at re-establishing the rule of law by building the capacity of our institutions and processes to deliver justice and security. We have formulated a road map for national reconciliation to ensure that peace is sustainable. Our development partners, including the United Nations and its specialized agencies, have remained faithful to our national agenda. They have supported our priority programmes for women’s empowerment, increased agricultural productivity and food security, roads and infrastructure, and job creation. All the United Nations agencies must be supplied with the capacity to provide support to Government programmes in those areas. That is particularly critical for the new gender entity, UN-Women, which is the youngest among them and whose viability must be assured. We have made strong strides in gender equality, but much more must be done for girls’ education and women’s empowerment. Tremendous progress has also been made in health-care delivery. We are particularly pleased by the recent UNICEF report, which shows a sharp reduction in the level of child mortality. However, there are still many challenges to overcome before we can ensure universal access to health care. Many developing countries, such as Liberia, have structured their economies around the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). While some countries have made considerable progress in reaching some of the Goals, many others will be unable to achieve them by 2015. There is an emerging consensus that efforts must be accelerated in order to achieve maximum progress in reaching the MDGs over the next three years. I am honoured and humbled to have been selected by the Secretary-General as one of the co-Chairs of the High-level Panel of Eminent Persons on the Post- 2015 Development Agenda. We are mindful of the difficulty of our task, which requires us to propose a framework that builds on but goes beyond the MDGs in the establishment of goals that are ambitious but achievable. We know that the results of our work must reflect the broad political consensus of the public and private sectors and civil society. We know that the defined goals should enable all people in all countries to be freed from the shackles of poverty through sustainable development. Liberia remains fully committed to the ideals and purposes of the United Nations. We believe that the Organization should continue to occupy the centre of global governance by leading efforts to meet our collective challenges to peace, security and development. To meet that objective, the intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council reform need to come to an early and logical conclusion. My Government is encouraged that an increasing number of Member States support the enlargement of the Council in both the permanent and the non-permanent categories. That would ensure a fairer and more equitable participation, ref lective of the world demography. In that regard, Liberia supports the African common position, based on the Ezulwini Consensus adopted by the African Union. In the same vein, we must ensure that the General Assembly is revitalized in order for it to fully assume all the responsibilities entrusted to it under the Charter. It remains, after all, the most representative body of the United Nations. The high-level United Nations Conference on the Arms Trade Treaty, which ended recently here in New York, sought to develop the highest possible international standards for the trade in conventional weapons. However, strong national positions on that sensitive global issue prevented an agreement on a binding arms trade treaty. Yet, nations of goodwill and countries like Liberia that have experienced devastation from the illicit trade in and diversion of conventional weapons must continue our strong advocacy, taking into account the full range of differences and disagreements. We would therefore encourage bilateral consensus-building ahead of a new round of negotiations. At the same time, we are convinced that the final draft text of the arms trade treaty, though imperfect and incomplete, contains essential elements, upon which future negotiations can succeed. We express our deep condolences on the death of the United States Ambassador and staff and the Libyan nationals in the attack on the United States consulate in Benghazi. All nations should be concerned about the spreading of violence in reaction to a film that demonstrates unacceptable insensitivity to the Islamic faith. Even in such circumstances, we must all be mindful that democracy requires freedom — freedom of ideas, freedom of association, freedom of religion and, more important, freedom of expression. That often results in statements and actions that may offend. Tolerance, not violence, is the appropriate response to prevent further violence. Liberia is a clear example, where, were it not for our own tolerance of our new- found freedom of expression, our country would be back in chaos. While the majority of the countries in our subregion are consolidating economic and social gains, underpinned by democratic processes, some are, regrettably, still dogged by serious challenges that risk undermining the peace and progress of the entire region. We in Liberia, like many other countries in the region and the world at large, were particularly appalled by the unconstitutional unravelling of the democratic Governments in Mali and Guinea-Bissau in the early part of this year. We unequivocally condemn such attempts to seize power through unconstitutional means. Accordingly, Liberia endorses the decisions of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), which sought the full restoration of constitutional order in both countries in the shortest time. Liberia enjoins the world community, particularly the Security Council, to buttress the efforts of ECOWAS in restoring peace in our region, most especially in Mali. As the current Chair of the four-nation Mano River Union, comprising Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea and Côte d’Ivoire, Liberia has committed itself to never allowing an inch of its territory to be used in order to destabilize its neighbours. In that context, we categorically condemn all attempts to undermine the peace and democratic gains in Côte d’Ivoire and are working closely with the Ivorian authorities and the United Nations peacekeeping bodies in both Liberia and Côte d’Ivoire to protect and consolidate the peace in our two countries. We call on all countries in our region to work in concert so that those intent on destabilizing some parts of our region are treated as enemies in all parts of it. We are all part of a rapidly changing world in which the forces of globalization cannot be reversed. Our farming systems must adjust to the unusual weather conditions. The places where we live and work will need, in some cases, to be relocated from traditional safe areas. Our societies must also find responses to the distractions resulting from the demonstration effect. Developing countries, such as my own, must make globalization work if we are to achieve our growth targets and lift our people out of poverty. That means greater commitment and effort on our part to create an environment that ensures economic growth based on mutual benefits and responsibilities. Since its founding, Liberia has been a complex nation, and the divisions that led to decades of war still run deep. Our experience clearly shows that success has its pitfalls. Displaced citizens returning from refugee camps in the subregion and deportees from around the world swell the ranks of the desperate unemployed, thereby intensifying our vulnerability. Communities long deprived of basic services demand instant attention to their individual needs, thereby straining our capacity. Civil servants lacking a decent wage for two decades rightfully clamour for raises, thereby undermining the budgetary process. As Liberia moves towards its tenth year of sustained peace, we can say with conviction that our country has turned the corner. Liberia is no longer a place of conflict, war and deprivation. We are no longer the country our citizens f led, our international partners pitied and our neighbours feared. Our stabilization efforts over the past six years have resulted in average annual growth of over 6 per cent, major foreign investment, expanded fiscal space and unprecedented debt cancellation. More important, we have earned our rightful place on an irreversible path to sustained peace, growth and development. Our Vision 2030, resulting from a robust nationwide consultation, is a long- term programme for transformation that prioritizes youth development, infrastructure, reconciliation and capacity development. Yet, our Government is keenly aware of the challenges to be faced over the next three years. United Nations peacekeeping forces are gradually being withdrawn from Liberia. In our discussions with various United Nations teams that have come to Liberia — the technical assessment mission in March and the Security Council delegation in May — we have emphasized the need for a responsible transition, through a gradual process occurring over a period of three to five years. We also seek the alignment of transitional activities with our budget cycle, reflecting Government priorities. We wish to express our appreciation to the United Nations, which has been a very committed and effective partner. We owe the Organization much gratitude for preserving an enabling environment for peacebuilding and State-building. In conclusion, I wish to note that today, for the first time in two generations, Liberia has a second successive democratic Government elected by the will of the people. Despite the distractions, local and external, our people are determined to take their destiny into their own hands, and determined that our ambitious goal of making Liberia a middle-income country by the year 2030 will be achieved.﻿I would like to congratulate President Jeremić on his election and to thank Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for having successfully presided over the General Assembly at its previous session. I also wish to express my deepest gratitude to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for having visited my country this past July. As we are marking the twentieth anniversary of our admission to the United Nations, his visit came as a recognition of the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina has travelled a long way since joining the Organization, having transformed itself from a recipient of security assistance into a contributor to global peace and security. I also want to commend the Secretary-General for his tireless efforts to advance dialogue and cooperation, and for his firm commitment to the core values and principles of the United Nations. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina recognize the importance of, and fully support, his action agenda, which identified five generational imperatives: prevention, a more secure world, helping countries in transition, empowering women and youth, and sustainable development. Today’s world is the scene of unfolding crises and mounting global challenges. The first and foremost of these is the disaster in Syria. As we stand here, our fellow Syrians are fighting against a brutal regime. They are fighting to take their destiny into their own hands. The regime of Bashar Al-Assad is answering their yearning for freedom and democracy with guns and bombs, just as his father’s regime did 30 years ago. That is revolting and morally reprehensible — but so is our collective failure to stop it. Once again, we are idly standing by while a human tragedy of dramatic proportions is unfolding before our eyes. We should do our part to help the Syrian people’s historic stand for freedom. We should do our part to save the people of Syria from tyranny. We should, but we are not. The images coming from Syria remind us of the tragedy of Bosnia. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina feel the pain of the Syrian people as our own because we went through the same horrors not that long ago. When Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon visited Srebrenica with me this July to pay his respects to the genocide victims, he said: “The international community must be united not to see any further bloodshed in Syria because I do not want to see any of my successors, after 20 years, visiting Syria, apologizing for what we could have done to protect the civilians in Syria — which we are not doing now”. His predecessor, Kofi Annan, stated in the report on the fall of Srebrenica: “Through error, misjudgment and an inability to recognize the scope of the evil confronting us, we failed to do our part to help save the people of Srebrenica ... The tragedy of Srebrenica will haunt our history forever” (A/54/549, para. 503) Today, those words about the Organization’s failure to respond to the tragedy in Syria ring true. The best way to honour the victims of the Srebrenica genocide would have been to learn the lessons of that failure and never commit the same errors again. Sadly, the United Nations, especially the Security Council, has failed to do that. The international community has chosen yet again to repeat the trial-and-error pattern of the policies that failed in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The resolutions, statements of concern, ineffective sanctions, observers, and missions with no mandate to protect civilians are actions that have deadly consequences, as demonstrated in my country. Make no mistake. Unless we act now, and act decisively, to help the people of Syria and put an end to the bloodshed there, that tragedy will haunt our history forever, just like Srebrenica. Developments at the beginning of the twenty-first century defy rational prediction. Indeed, who could have predicted such an explosion of freedom in the Middle East? In the last few years, we have witnessed a historic awakening in the Arab world. Profound social and political changes aimed at creating democratic societies are under way now — changes that have been fermenting for decades. They are the best confirmation that Muslims strive vigorously for freedom, dignity and human rights. A well-educated, free-thinking generation of young Arabs has finally broken the chains of dictatorship. No force can prevent that new generation from taking charge of its destiny. As a non-permanent member of the Security Council, Bosnia and Herzegovina strongly supported the Arab peoples’ aspirations for greater freedom and democracy. We acted to ensure that the international community supported those who wanted free societies instead of closed ones, the rule of law instead of the rule of one individual, democracy instead of dictatorship, justice and fairness instead of oppression and corruption. The stalemate in resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is also deeply troubling. The peace process is not moving forward, and the chain of violence has not been broken. A new impetus to negotiations is urgently needed, because there is no alternative to a negotiated solution. The Palestinians have every right — historical, moral and legal — to a State of their own, but Israel has every right to its security. The occupation of Palestinian territories must end, but so must the terror and violence. All attempts to create new realities on the ground in the hope that they will be accepted as a starting point for future negotiations must be rejected. The continuation of settlement activities in the occupied Palestinian territories continues to pose the most serious obstacle to peace. Israel should immediately end all settlement activities in the occupied Palestinian territories, because those activities are illegal under international law. Doing so is in Israel’s own best interest if it truly desires peace with the Palestinians. The state of affairs of 60 or 6,000 years ago is not the right point of reference. The right point of reference for a solution is the principle of the peaceful coexistence of two sovereign States — an independent Palestine and a secure Israel. That is the only realistic way to bring about a just resolution to the conflict and to ensure stability and progress in the Middle East. To achieve such a solution, a more sincere attempt at good-faith negotiations is needed, especially on the part of Israel. The road to peace does not include ignoring United Nations resolutions, squeezing the Palestinians onto bits and pieces of the land that once belonged to their fathers, and building settlements on those remaining bits of land. The Organization needs to send a strong message demanding that its resolutions be respected and that there be no double standards or chosen peoples when it comes to the application of international legal norms and human rights principles. Over the past few weeks, we have witnessed disturbing violence linked to intolerance. The video that sparked those developments is deeply insulting. It deserves the strongest condemnation, and we absolutely reject its content and message. There is no justification, however, for responding to that movie with violence. Violence in response to speech is unacceptable. There can be no debate about that. Violence is no way to honour religion. Responding to bigotry with violence only further fans the flames of intolerance. We must draw the line at violence, but we must also find a way to prevent hate speech and bigotry. Yes, there is the right to free speech, but there is also the right to dignity. We cannot impose our ideology or our religion on anyone else. We must promote tolerance, but we must also promote mutual respect. That is why, as responsible leaders, we should have a frank debate about the outer limits of free expression when that freedom is abused to incite hate and deliberately slander the dignity of others. There is no inherent contradiction between Islamic and Western values. On the contrary, those values are compatible. After all, they are derived from the same sources. Throughout history, interactions between those values have led to tremendous achievements. There need be no clash. There are only those who need to create a false perception of a clash in order to come to power or maintain their hold on it. So many societies in today’s world are in transition, yearning to find a balance between traditional and modern values. The relationship between the West and the Islamic world and between their respective value systems is going to be one of the most critical issues of our time. That relationship will go through crises and periods of misunderstanding and intolerance. In the modern age, we need to continue to seek a formula, which is to say a model, for how to reconcile Islamic and Western values, East and West. No matter how hard it may be, finding that formula is going to be essential in the time ahead of us. The human condition is one of diversity. Our human race is a mosaic composed of a rich variety of peoples, cultures and religions that shine together in a dynamic, sparkling pattern. Our responsibility is to nurture and protect that mosaic. I come from a country whose historical experience can offer valuable lessons in finding a model for peaceful coexistence within such diversity. The whole world can benefit from the lessons that my country has learned from constantly seeking to improve its understanding and management of diversity. For hundreds of years, its citizens lived in harmony, helping each other build houses of worship that are physically almost leaning on each other. The westernmost range of Orthodox Christianity and Islam, the easternmost range of Catholicism, Bosnia is a meeting point of civilizations, a bridge between East and West. Its unique multi-ethnic culture has been woven through a thousand years of tolerance and respect among its citizens, regardless of their ethnic and religious affiliation. That is why its preservation and success, as a specific microcosm, is crucial for the whole world. However, owing to our recent past, a great struggle is now under way in my country between the idea of coexistence and the idea of division. I believe that the outcome of that struggle will have a significant bearing on resolving one of the greatest challenges of our time, that of conflict versus cooperation. If the idea of coexistence and cooperation does not prevail in Bosnia, it can hardly prevail anywhere else in the world. If the unique social fabric of my country, which was torn by crimes and force, is not restored, that will be a defeat for the very idea of coexistence, which will produce a widening gap at one of the most delicate fault lines of the world. The growing power of humankind brings progress and prosperity. Yet the selfish side of that power cuts into the very substance on which our future depends, namely, our physical habitat and our spiritual essence. The world we live in is changing at a speed and in a direction that is rightfully worrisome. Inequality, injustice and intolerance are on the rise. There is more conflict and less cooperation. There is ever more violence and ever less compassion, solidarity, mutual care, healthy interpersonal relations and family life. People around the world are taking to the streets, which is a dramatic warning that there is less and less fairness in the societies in which they live. Those unsettling trends can be reversed only by decisive and coordinated global action. The future we desire will not be just a utopia if we join our forces to find the right solutions. Cooperative approaches are difficult to accomplish but are needed more than ever. We are not perfect, and we can be better. We can be wiser, more responsible, more willing to learn from our past mistakes. Too often we have been prisoners of our own mentalities. We perceive willingness to compromise as a weakness, but just the opposite is true — compromise requires courage. To build a future we must make compromises. To succeed we must stop indulging in manipulative kinds of populism. We must break out of the worn and frayed patterns of the past. We must turn to the future. Instead of having endless debates about what has been, we must devote ourselves to reaching agreements about what can be. We must more correctly interpret the interests of those we represent. We must listen to the views of others, no matter how different those views might be. We must understand each other better and respect each other more. Our most important mission in the time to come will be to build bridges between cultures, religions and civilizations — bridges of trust, understanding and respect, bridges to reach out to problems the true nature of which we have only begun to understand. That is hard work that requires daring leadership. The Organization has undergone difficult trials, but it has always been the best framework for building those bridges. Let us keep it that way as we go forward.﻿We are convening in this Assembly at a time when we are witnessing a worrisome phenomenon, namely, senseless violence spreading through an entire region as a result of a senseless offence to religious feelings. More than any other organization, the United Nations stands for the ideals of tolerance, understanding and mutual respect. A strong message should therefore emerge from this debate. The hateful slander of people on the basis of their culture or religion is unacceptable. It is an abuse of the right to freedom of expression. However, we must emphasize just as clearly that violence cannot be justified by insults, however understandable the outrage may be. Such ongoing events also tell us that we must reach many more people in our effort to promote the values of the United Nations around the globe. When we last met, a year ago, we heard many calls from this rostrum to bring an end to the crisis in Syria. Since then, the violence has turned into a civil war that puts the United Nations to shame. We have seen open division in the Security Council and little interest by the parties to the conflict in a United Nations-led mediation. Instead, the situation on the ground has further escalated. The entire region is now threatened with instability. The blatant disregard for the lives and rights of civilians, of women and children in particular, is simply shocking. It is a crisis with profound and lasting effects for the three main pillars of the United Nations: peace and security, development, and human rights. It is therefore also an existential challenge for this Organization. The United Nations is only as effective as its political organs allow it to be. The crisis must therefore make us think in general terms about the lessons we should learn. The situation in Syria is clearly of burning concern to the membership as a whole as a human security crisis and a threat to international peace and security. At the same time, the Security Council is unable to carry out its tasks under the Charter because of disagreement among its permanent members. It is therefore essential that the General Assembly step in and play a more active role, as it has done on some occasions. That is all the more important as we are confronted by the failure to fulfil the responsibility to protect a civilian population — a principle adopted in this Hall at the highest political level. The stalemate in the Council demonstrates that we must look at the way in which the veto power is and can be used. In that respect, there must be accountability vis-à-vis the membership of the Organization as a whole. After all, the Council carries out its work on behalf of us all. We call upon the permanent members to acknowledge that the United Nations Charter does not grant them the right to the veto without any strings attached. We ask them to acknowledge that the Council must at all times act in accordance with the purposes and principles of the United Nations. We therefore request that they pledge not to use the veto to block Council action aimed at preventing or ending genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes. Clearly, the main priority is to end the suffering of the Syrian people and to bring about a political solution that guarantees human security and stability for the region. However, we also have an obligation to ensure that there is no impunity for the worst crimes under international law and that those who have the greatest responsibility do not get away with murder. The evidence before us is alarming. The independent international commission of inquiry on the Syrian Arab Republic, established by the Human Rights Council, came to clear conclusions. The primary responsibility to ensure accountability falls, of course, on the Syrian judiciary. But we can be under no illusions as to whether it will deliver justice to the victims and due process to all accused. We therefore join Switzerland in the call to the Council to refer the situation in Syria to the International Criminal Court (ICC) (see A/67/PV.7). But we also ask the Council to fully support such a referral in order to ensure cooperation and not to put up any obstacles to the appropriate financing of the Court’s work. Without those two prerequisites, referrals are a mixed blessing and problematic for the ICC. This year, we also commemorate the tenth anniversary of the International Criminal Court. We are looking at the history of an astonishing success. Who would have thought that the Court’s membership would near two thirds of the membership of the United Nations in such a short time? Who would have predicted that the Security Council would make referrals to the ICC on two occasions — once even by unanimous vote? And who would have expected the Court to emerge from political controversy as a stronger institution? Those are remarkable achievements that we can be proud of. Nevertheless, the next decade is also fraught with challenges. We have been strongly united in setting up the Court and getting it under way. Now that it is fully operational, we must more than ever support it politically. I therefore launched a ministerial-level initiative to support the ICC earlier this week. I was very encouraged by the strong response to my call for coordinated action when needed. In adopting the Rome Statute, we have not just set up an international tribunal located in The Hague. We have also created a global system to fight impunity, which assigns a strong role to States. It also offers the Security Council an important role, if it chooses to play it. Political support is particularly required where investigations are based on referrals from the Security Council. The obligation for the State in question to cooperate is based entirely on the Security Council’s authority, not on the Rome Statute. The Council must therefore play a key role in ensuring that such cooperation is forthcoming. We as States are also responsible for ensuring that indicted individuals are arrested and transferred to the Court. Clearly, we must do better in that regard. We are also being given a historic opportunity both for the Court and for the United Nations: for the first time since the end of the Second World War, we can enable an international tribunal to prosecute the crime of aggression. The prohibition of the illegal use of force is at the core of the Charter of the United Nations, and aggression has been considered a crime under international law for decades. But the consensual adoption of the Kampala amendments to the Rome Statute allows us to put that principle into practice. Leaders that consider resorting to the illegal use of force will be put on notice, once 30 States parties have ratified the amendments and once we have activated them in 2017. I am proud of the fact that Liechtenstein, following its presidency of the Review Conference, was the first State to ratify the amendments, on 8 May this year. We chose the date as a tribute to the commemoration of the end of the Second World War in Europe. We have also launched an initiative to support the ratification process that is under way. I would therefore encourage all current and future parties to the Rome Statute to ratify the Kampala amendments as soon as possible. Together we can take this big step forward in the history of international law. Criminalizing the illegal use of force between States would be a very significant step forward in the promotion of the rule of law at the international level. The rule of law is rightfully moving to the centre of our attention. We have illustrated this fact by holding a high-level meeting on this topic earlier this week. The rule of law permeates many of the activities we pursue here at the United Nations. Indeed, there can be no lasting security, no sustainable development and no effective protection of human rights without the rule of law. We therefore look forward to a strong rule-of-law dimension in the sustainable development goals resulting from the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development. The Conference resulted in a number of important agreements. It also illustrated the value of inclusive and transparent multilateralism, especially when compared with other, more exclusive decision-making processes. This serves as a reminder of the need to reconcile seemingly competing interests in international decision-making: transparency and inclusiveness on the one side, and efficiency and effectiveness on the other. Multilateral decision-making is efficient when there is sufficient political will. It is effective when it has the legitimacy necessary to ensure full implementation. We must revert to considering the universality and openness of the General Assembly as key assets, not as a weakness. The Assembly must reaffirm its unique and central role in global governance, including in the economic dimension. I welcome the strong commitment of President Jeremić, expressed at the beginning of this session, to work for genuine multilateralism and, to that end, to reach a new level of engagement. I assure him of our full support in this endeavour. There must be accountability for decisions of global impact before the Assembly or before other relevant and universally accessible bodies. To achieve that aim, we will build on the progress made in recent years in the framework of the Global Governance Group. The Group has become a trusted bridge-builder in these matters. We hope that this issue will become one of the highlights of Mr. Jeremić’s presidency. Let me conclude with some remarks about an issue that is particularly dear to my heart. I am convinced that the inclusion of the whole population, men and women alike, is essential to the stability and peaceful and prosperous development of nations. Since becoming Foreign Minister, I have tried to make use of the relevant international platforms to promote the advancement women. I also hope to bring Liechtenstein’s expertise and passion for women’s issues to the Commission on the Status of Women during the term 2015-2019. I am grateful to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his leadership in this area. UN-Women, headed so charismatically by Michelle Bachelet, has given a much- needed additional boost to our efforts. If we continue on our path, then the United Nations can be the decisive driving force for gender equality worldwide. Until then, we can and must do much more, in particular in the area of women, peace and security. Stronger protection of women, both legal and otherwise, in situations where they are particularly prone to becoming victims is a key component. The United Nations, with its very strong field presence all over the world, can make a unique contribution to that end. But most importantly, the United Nations must lead by example when it comes to gender equality and the advancement of women. We must make the best use of their talents, skills and experiences as peacemakers, as agents for sustainable development and as advocates for human rights and the rule of law. As is well known, the future is female. Only when women are fully included will we, the United Nations, be successful in pursuing our goals.﻿At the outset, I would like to congratulate my good friend, Mr. Vuk Jeremić, on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, and to wish him every success in fulfilling his highly responsible duties. We are also grateful to Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for presiding ably over the sixty-sixth session. This is the fi rst general debate that I have addressed since Azerbaijan was elected to a non-permanent seat on the Security Council, and I would like to express our sincere gratitude and profound appreciation to the Governments of States Members of the United Nations for their valuable support for our candidacy and for their solidarity with Azerbaijan during 17 rounds of elections. The theme of the this year’s general debate, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, is timely and topical. It also represents a logical continuation of discussions we had during the previous session. Indeed, the peaceful settlement of disputes is one of the key and core principles of international law enshrined in the United Nations Charter. Its true value is to be able to commit States to respecting one another’s territorial integrity and political independence, refraining in their international relations from the threat or use of force and resolving their disputes in conformity with international law. At its sixty-fi fth and sixty-sixth sessions, the General Assembly adopted two resolutions on strengthening the role of mediation in the peaceful settlement of disputes, conflict prevention and resolution (resolutions 65/283 and 66/291), and the Secretary-General submitted a report on the subject that contains a Guidance for Effective Mediation (A/66/811, annex I). As a sponsor of those resolutions, Azerbaijan considers the process begun by their adoption to be an essential effort towards reinforcing the promotion of mediation in the peaceful settlement of disputes, conflict prevention and resolution, as well as providing useful guidance to existing and future mediation mechanisms. A crucial factor is that those resolutions, and the Guidance for Effective Mediation developed by the Secretary- General, reaffirmed the key importance of the United Nations Charter and of international law and justice, in particular the commitment to respect and uphold the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of States. During Azerbaijan’s presidency of the Security Council this past May, we organized an Arria-formula meeting of the Council to encourage a frank exchange of views, within a flexible procedural framework, on the role of mediation, judicial settlement and justice in promoting durable peace and reconciliation based on international law. We look forward to further initiatives on the topic in the General Assembly and the Security Council with a view to contributing to the development and implementation of comprehensive peace strategies within specific frameworks that provide that dispute settlement and conflict resolution must be based on respect for the rule of law and for justice. The world continues to face persistent, grave and systematic violations of the fundamental norms and principles of international law. There are still instances where archaic patterns of the use of force against the territorial integrity and political independence of States are used to achieve territorial gains. Hundreds of thousands of people throughout the world continue to suffer from aggression, military occupation, ethnic cleansing and a prevailing culture of impunity for the most serious crimes of concern to the international community. The ongoing armed conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan continues to represent a serious threat and challenge to international and regional peace and security. The conflict has led to the occupation of almost 20 per cent of the territory of Azerbaijan and has turned more than one million people in the country into internally displaced persons or refugees. The war has also led to the deaths and wounding of thousands of Azerbaijanis, including women, the elderly and children. In addition, the aggression against Azerbaijan has severely damaged the country in socioeconomic terms. Not a single Azerbaijani historic or cultural monument has been left undamaged, and no sacred site has escaped desecration in either the occupied territories or in Armenia. We sincerely believe that there is no alternative to peace, stability and mutually beneficial regional cooperation. As a country suffering from the occupation of its territories and the forcible displacement of hundreds of thousands of its citizens, Azerbaijan is the most interested party in the earliest possible negotiated settlement of the conflict. Without prejudice to its rights under the United Nations Charter, in particular those set forth in Article 51, Azerbaijan embarked on and remains committed to the conflict settlement process, confident that it will lead to the end of the illegal Armenian occupation, ensure the return of forcibly displaced people to their homes and guarantee the peaceful coexistence of the Armenian and Azerbaijani communities in the Nagorno Karabakh region within the Republic of Azerbaijan. Attempts by the Armenian side to misinterpret the norms and principles of international law and its insistence on unrealistic annexationist claims, which Azerbaijan will never accept, speak to the real intentions of Armenia’s leadership and represent an open challenge to the conflict settlement process, as well as a serious threat to international and regional peace and security. In f lagrant violation of the United Nations Charter, Armenia continues to use force to maintain its occupation of the Nagorno Karabakh region and seven other districts of Azerbaijan, as well as to prevent internally displaced Azerbaijani persons from returning to their homes. It is attempting to alter the demographic balance in the occupied territories and to remove any signs of their Azerbaijani cultural and historical roots. Additionally, regular ceasefire violations and deliberate attacks by the armed forces of Armenia against the inhabitants of towns and villages in Azerbaijan along the front line and the border between the two States have become more frequent and violent in recent times, resulting in the killing and injuring of many Azerbaijani civilians. We have no doubt that the Azerbaijani and Armenian communities of Nagorno Karabakh will one day live side by side in peace and dignity in that region of Azerbaijan. It is therefore essential and vital to continue efforts for peace and coexistence between the two communities. Azerbaijan considers that an important part of the whole reconciliation process and has therefore accepted invitations from a number of European non-governmental organizations to hold intercommunal meetings. However, those proposals have so far been blocked by the authorities in Yerevan. Moreover, the aggressive rhetoric of Armenia’s leadership and its blatant promotion of odious ideas of racial superiority, ethnic and religious incompatibility and hatred towards Azerbaijan and other neighbouring nations only deepen mistrust and make more elusive the prospect of a speedy negotiated settlement. The situation is further complicated by Armenia’s irresponsible and unacceptable behaviour in the highly sensitive domain of justice and reconciliation. The perpetrators of war crimes and crimes against humanity, including acts of genocide against the Azerbaijani people, not only remain unpunished in Armenia but are even promoted, venerated and officially rewarded with the title of hero. Schools, universities and streets are named after them and monuments are erected in their honour. War criminals who proudly avow their role in the mass killing of Azerbaijani civilians are reincarnated as highly placed politicians, military commanders and public figures. Armenia must finally realize that the irresponsible and provocative policy of territorial claims, animosity and hatred towards neighbouring countries and nations based on historical, cultural, racial and religious prejudices has no chance of success. The earlier it grasps that fact, the sooner our countries will be able to reach mutual understanding and enjoy peace, stability and cooperation. It is clear that both the conflict-settlement process and its outcome must be consistent with international law. The achievement of peace, security, stability and confidence therefore depends first and foremost on the removal of the consequences of Armenia’s illegal use of force. That will ensure that the occupation of the territories of Azerbaijan is at an end and that the right of internally displaced Azerbaijani persons to return to their homes and recover their property and possessions will be implemented. That is what international law and the relevant Security Council and General Assembly resolutions require, which means that this condition cannot be subject to compromise or used as a bargaining chip in the conflict settlement process. Armenia’s implementation of its obligation to withdraw its armed forces from the territory of Azerbaijan and to resolve outstanding issues of State responsibility for acts deemed wrongful under international law cannot be made contingent on addressing the aggressor’s unlawful and unacceptable claims. The fact that the situation has remained unresolved for so long does not speak well for the strength and efficiency of the international organizations that are deaing with the issue. It is obvious that the primary role in the resolution of the conflict lies with the States concerned. At the same time, when it comes to principles, it is everyone’s duty to defend them. In that regard, Azerbaijan highly appreciates the principled stance of Member States, as expressed in various forums, including the most recent summits of NATO, the Organization of Islamic Cooperation and the Non-Aligned Movement, on issues of vital importance to our country and pertaining to its sovereignty and territorial integrity. We count on the continued resolve of the international community to defend the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter, and on its strong solidarity with the just position of Azerbaijan. We would like to express our concern over the situation with regard to the Middle East peace process, which has been at a standstill with no substantive progress towards the resumption of direct talks between the parties. We call upon the parties to create the conditions conducive to the resumption of negotiations. In that regard, we share the concerns of the international community over settlement activity in the occupied Palestinian territories, which places a tremendous burden on civilians, seriously obstructs the peace process and, what is even more dangerous, threatens the two-State solution and the emergence of a viable Palestinian State. We reiterate our support for Palestine’s application for admission to membership in the United Nations and look forward to a solution to that issuebased on international law. Azerbaijan also remains deeply concerned about the escalation of violence and the worsening socioeconomic and humanitarian situation in Syria. We believe that the solution to the crisis lies in the hands of the Syrian people and in their desire for mutual reconciliation and an all-inclusive political process. We welcome the appointment of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi as the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria, and express our firm support for his efforts. We must once again express our deep concern over the recent escalation provoked by the blasphemy against Islam. We strongly condemn all assaults against religions. At the same time, attacks on civilians, in particular on diplomatic personnel, are unjustifiable under any circumstances. It is critical to foster global dialogue and cooperation to promote tolerance, peace and better understanding across countries, cultures and civilizations. We are confident that during the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly, Member States will be able to take successful steps towards a stronger and more effective United Nations. With its active participation in the work of the organs of the United Nations, most notably the General Assembly and Security Council, Azerbaijan will continue to be in the forefront of international efforts to that end.The events of recent months have illustrated once again the importanceof the United Nations as a multilateral forum for addressing today’s crises and challenges. The conflicts in Syria and Mali and the ongoing reform processes in many parts of the Arab world demonstrate that we can face such challenges only through concerted action. In Syria, thousands have lost their lives in their struggle for freedom and reform owing to crimes committed by a regime that denies them every basic human right in order to stay in power. Austria condemns the systematic human rights violations and bloodshed in Syria in the strongest possible terms. The more than 27,000 victims and some 2.5 million people in dire need of humanitarian assistance are a stark reminder for each and every one of us that it is high time for the United Nations to finally act. The Security Council, in particular, must assume its responsibilities in relation to the ever-worsening situation in the country. Violence has to stop immediately, and both sides have to engage in a meaningful dialogue facilitated by Joint Special Representative Lakhdar Brahimi. There will be no solution unless President Al-Assad steps aside and gives way to the forces of reason and reconciliation. Austria continues to fully support the ongoing transition processes in the Arab world. We welcome the efforts undertaken so far to lay the foundations for more open, inclusive and prosperous societies. We encourage the newly empowered authorities to fulfil their mandate for democratic change responsibly. The aspirations of the people for dignity and freedom must be satisfied, thereby contributing to peace and stability in the region. In that context, let me reiterate my strongest condemnation of the recent attacks on diplomatic missions and personnel, especially the murder of Ambassador Chris Stevens and three of his colleagues in Benghazi. Violence is never an acceptable response to the exercise of the fundamental right of freedom of speech. To attack an Embassy and its personnel is not only contrary to international law but an attack on the very ideals that the United Nations stands for, namely, the peaceful cooperation of Member States to build a better future together. The still unresolved Israeli-Palestinian conflict continues to gravely destabilize the Middle East. The terms of a negotiated and sustainable solution — two States with secure and mutually recognized borders — have been discussed over and over again and are broadly supported by the people and the international community, and yet we experienced a complete lack of progress in the last year. We therefore call on the leadership on both sides to finally assume their responsibilities and enable a lasting peace and security to be established for their children and future generations. The situation in Mali also continues to be a matter of grave concern. Austria has been dismayed by the political turmoil, with its disastrous effects on the Malian population. Growing insecurity and the continued deterioration of the humanitarian and human rights situation call for concerted action. The high-level meeting held on Wednesday was an important signal that we are moving in that direction. We fully support the efforts by the Economic Community of West African States and the African Union to try to find, together with the United Nations, a lasting political solution to the crisis in Mali and the Sahel region as a whole. Austria will advocate for increased support from the European Union to contribute to that end. In the light of the crises and challenges the international community is facing, Austria welcomes President Jeremić’s timely choice of theme to highlight the peaceful settlement of disputes in this year’s general debate. Prevention is always better — and cheaper — than a cure. The progress made in Sierra Leone, Kyrgyzstan, Nepal and Myanmar testifies how successful sustainable mediation efforts can be. The peaceful settlement of disputes can be achieved only through open dialogue, based on mutual respect. Austria has a long-standing tradition of promoting intercultural and interreligious dialogue. We are proud to host the fifth Global Forum of the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations in Vienna. It will take place on 27 and 28 February 2013, under the title “Responsible Leadership in Diversity and Dialogue”. Austria highly values the contribution of youth as a transformative force. Therefore, the day before the Global Forum will be dedicated to the Alliance of Civilizations youth event in order to benefit from their views. In that context, I am also pleased to inform that the King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz International Centre for lnterreligious and Intercultural Dialogue will be inaugurated on 26 November in Vienna. The Centre, a joint initiative of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Kingdom of Spain and the Republic of Austria, will certainly offer a significant contribution to the promotion of dialogue. We need to be clear that sustainable peace and development go hand in hand with respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. These are universal values that no human being should be denied. We must not falter until this goal is achieved. In 2011, Austria was elected to the Human Rights Council. We fully support the Council and its mechanisms, especially the universal periodic review. The Council is best placed to react swiftly in case of human rights emergencies. Its special sessions on Syria and Libya illustrated that the international community will not turn a blind eye on gross human rights violations and indiscriminate attacks against the civilian population. Human rights abuses must not go unpunished. Violations must be thoroughly investigated and perpetrators must be held accountable before credible judicial institutions, including the International Criminal Court. Our membership of the Human Rights Council is an opportunity to continue working on the key priorities that Austria pursued during its Security Council membership in 2009 and 2010: the protection of civilians, the safety of journalists, the implementation of resolution 1325 (2000) on women, peace and security, the freedom of religion and belief, and the protection of children from violence and abuse. The High-level Meeting of 24 September was an important opportunity to renew our commitment to the rule of law at the national and international levels. It now needs an adequate follow-up. As chair of the Group of Friends of the Rule of Law, Austria will provide concrete proposals for the upcoming report of the Secretary-General. The various United Nations headquarters in Vienna are a hub for promoting peace and security. The work of the International Atomic Energy Agency is more relevant than ever. I am pleased that we can now also draw on additional services from the new office of the Office for Disarmament Affairs established in Vienna. Austria is deeply concerned about programmes for weapons of mass destruction and proliferation activities in several regions of the world. The creation of a zone free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East is more urgent than ever. In that respect, let me underline that Iran must finally give credible evidence for the peaceful nature of its nuclear programmeme and engage in earnest in the talks with the European Union three plus one group. The continued inability to even initiate substantive multilateral disarmament negotiations is unacceptable. Austria is committed to working with other interested States to move forward on that crucial issue. I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his continued support in that matter. We need to move beyond a strictly military security approach that originates from the Cold War period. It is time to change the discourse on nuclear weapons. Any use of nuclear weapons would be devastating for the whole world in its humanitarian and environmental effects. In the twenty-first century, such an existential threat to humankind can no longer be handled exclusively by a few States as a national security matter. Austria is committed to strengthening and further developing international law and a humanitarian approach to advance the global disarmament and non-proliferation agenda. A lot has been achieved in the past two decades, as evidenced by the successful conclusions of the conventions to ban anti-personnel mines and cluster munitions. We hope that similar progress can be achieved on the arms trade treaty in the coming months. Other Member States should join the emerging consensus on regulating the trade in arms in a comprehensive manner. Vienna and its United Nations headquarters also serve as a platform for the discussion on sustainable development. We welcome the decision of the Secretary- General to establish an implementation office for his Sustainable Energy for All initiative. That will help to advance this important agenda. Universal access to energy and the improvement of energy efficiency, along with a higher share of renewable energy, are goals that will help bring electricity to the billion and a half people worldwide lacking access. Equally, it will help control greenhouse gas emissions and global warming, which threaten the very existence of many Member States. This year’s United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development marked the beginning of a new era, renewing the prospects for future generations via the sustainable development goals, as tailored to the needs of different countries or groups of States and regions. While implementing those new global goals, we should not cease our efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals by the target date of 2015. Austria remains fully committed to an effective multilateral system. Therefore we will support the efforts of the President of the Assembly and of the Secretary-General to further increase the effectiveness of our Organization in order to better enable us to face the challenges of our time.﻿I am honoured to address the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session on behalf of Mr. Tillman J. Thomas, Prime Minister of Grenada, and the people of Grenada. Grenada commends the work of the United Nations over the past year, with special commendation for the leadership and stewardship of the outgoing President, Qatari diplomat Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser. Looking ahead, we place our confidence in you, Sir, and your team, and look forward to your guidance of the work this year under the general theme “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. We extend Grenada’s full esteem and support to our able Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, whom we thank for his continued leadership and service to Member States. Grenada recommits unwaveringly to the principles of the United Nations, as embodied in the Charter. Our commitment in national and international life to the norms of peace, equality and justice, and to human rights and multilateralism, is clear. Over the past year, Grenada ratified and deposited instruments of ratification with the United Nations, including for the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. In ratifying the Rome Statute, Grenada became the Member State that brought that Treaty into force. That exemplifies our commitment to the principle of the rule of law, which resonates with every Grenadian as a result of our enthusiasm for justice and for ending impunity. Grenada welcomes the Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels (resolution 67/1) of 24 September, and expects to make a voluntary pledge. On the domestic front, in April Parliament passed the End Violence against Women Legislative and Policy Reform Bill. Aware that by itself the passage of a law is insufficient to change society’s entrenched cultural attitudes and practices, we are also embarking on public education and on strengthening the capacity of Government departments, among other things. We will continue on that path to secure the rights of people, for we are convinced that law and security are the sine qua non for the facilitation of the peaceful settlement of disputes, which is itself the foundation for an international environment of peace. Indeed, democracy, good governance, social inclusion, conflict resolution, development and sustained overall progress are all helped by the rule of law within our countries and in the international system. Grenada is a small island developing State. Nature has been especially generous to us, and our people are extraordinarily hard-working and big-spirited. Yet the fruits of nature and of our own efforts have been undermined by Hurricane Ivan in 2004, Hurricane Emily in 2005 and the advent in 2008 of the global financial and economic crisis. That notwithstanding, we remain confident that a pathway to success exists for us, based on our own efforts and the support of the international community and this great Organization. From Grenada’s perspective, the highlight of the past year has been the renewed international political commitment to sustainable development; indeed, interest continues to grow and to gain momentum. Sustainable development is one of our declared priorities in Grenada. It is a priority this year since the Secretary- General announced that sustainable development would be the number one item on his agenda during his second term, and you, too, Sir, declared it a priority. In June, more than 120 heads of State and Government endorsed the paradigm of sustainable development in Rio, and the outcome document, entitled “The future we want”, declares: “We resolve to take urgent action to achieve sustainable development” (resolution 66/288, annex, para. 12). Leaders agreed to articulate policies and programmes that would promote socially inclusive behaviour to quickly and equitably bring about prosperity and to do so in a manner that would instil hope and create livelihood opportunities for those yet to come. Because of our tremendous green and blue endowments and the fact that our people live intelligently with them, Grenada has long considered itself an island of sustainability. That describes a holistic policy framework that defines our consumption and production path as spelt out in our five strategic development pillars: energy development; education, health and wellness; information and communications technology; tourism and hospitality; and agribusiness. Grenada is committed, then, to a path of sustainability. Its determined efforts are led by our energy policy aimed at reducing fossil-fuel usage by 20 per cent by the year 2020 and at being completely carbon-neutral by 2030. The manufacturing sector is rapidly emerging as a producer of indigenous green and organic products, and the hotel sector is going green. It should be recalled that Grenada is building itself back from the World Bank-determined loss of 204 per cent of its gross domestic product as a result of the hurricane destruction we experienced in 2004 and 2005. We have made great strides with recovery due to the generosity of our neighbours and friends everywhere, for which we remain forever indebted and grateful. Since 2008, our situation has been compounded by the weight of the global financial and economic downturn, which is dwarfing development efforts due to loss of tourism and port receipts and even of remittances. However, we recognize with deep appreciation that, as our economy has slowed in direct response to the global economic crisis, our neighbours are again coming to our assistance. Grenada is defined as a middle-income country, and yet its stability and growth are challenged by serious socioeconomic predicaments. We are facing the high cost of fuel and food, costs associated with confronting the illicit trafficking in drugs and small arms and light weapons and related crime, and an increase in unemployment and poverty. What is consistent in that context is that, like so many of the Caribbean and small island developing countries, Grenada contributes least to the financial and economic crisis, greenhouse-gas emissions and the production of arms and illicit drugs, and yet those scourges have a disproportionate impact on us as compared to the countries that produce them, and of course our ability to respond effectively is far inferior. So what, then, is the way forward? The way forward lies primarily in improvement of the domestic environment. We continue to achieve this through laws, economic and social policies and our national spirit of perseverance. Among our many initiatives, in January 2013, for example, Grenada will be co-hosting a meeting in the Caribbean with business innovator Sir Richard Branson on ensuring the sustainable management of our marine and coastal resources. Yet small island developing States need a far more supportive international policy climate and affordable financing for a safe and secure way forward into greater sustainability. That will be the way we hold on to the hard-earned progress made so far with respect to the Millennium Development Goals and how we will be able to expand it. We hope then to be guided by the sustainable development goals and the post- 2015 development framework to further support our ambitious economic and social transformation agenda. We continue to believe that peace and security and a reduction in military spending in the international community will be good for a global economic recovery, which in turn will be good for the financing of sustainable development. Unless there is recovery in the large economies to which our own economic life remains tied, we will see no sustained recovery. We therefore call for commitments made to developing countries to be met, and we remain willing partners in South-South cooperation. The staggering loss of life in Syria must be brought to an end by all those responsible. We call for a politically negotiated and urgent settlement, and we reiterate Grenada’s support for the diplomacy work being carried out, inter alia, by the United Nations and the Arab League. We call for policies of inclusion and openness that will accommodate all just aspirations of all members of society in the Middle East and elsewhere. We reiterate our call for a State for the Palestinian people in a negotiated two-State agreement with Israel through a peace plan. The injustices meted out to the Palestinians, including widespread unemployment, poverty and displacement, must end now. The Palestinian people, led by their Government, the Palestinian Authority, have our strong support for their just aspirations. We are convinced that the two nations can coexist side by side in peace and harmony, like so many other countries. Grenada takes this opportunity to extend once again its heartfelt condolences to the Government and people of the United States of America and to the bereaved families of Ambassador Chris Stevens and his colleagues. We deplore those senseless acts and continue to call for the improvement of the protection of all diplomats serving abroad. Grenada calls for the cessation of the trafficking of weapons through our Caribbean region and for a firm and comprehensive, yet expeditious, agreement on small arms and light weapons. We also renew our call for the preservation of the Caribbean Sea as a zone of peace and development and for the bringing of an end to the passage of nuclear waste in our waters. Grenada looks forward to the third Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island States in 2014, and we call on the international community to lend its fullest and broadest support to that Conference. We further call on the General Assembly to designate 2014 as the International Year of Small Island Developing States so as to raise awareness of the special situation of small island developing States (SIDS) and to mobilize international support for their sustainable development. Support for SIDS from China in energy efficiency and from Norway in renewable energy is already forthcoming, as is support from Australia. Without a legally binding climate regime to uphold environmental integrity, Caribbean and other small island States would lose the opportunity for achieving sustainability soon, and some could even disappear. We therefore see the upcoming eighteenth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Doha, Qatar, as an opportunity to move decisively away from that scenario, and we welcome the commitment of the European Union to agreeing to an ambitious second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol and to climate financing. We call on other developed countries to do likewise, and on the Secretary-General to encourage States parties to move steadfastly towards finalizing a new binding climate treaty by 2015 and a gap-free period of climate financing starting in January 2013. If the United Nations is to continue to lead the way in sustainability, peace and security, it must be reformed. The centrepiece of that change must be reform of the Security Council, particularly so as to include a seat for small island developing States. Only a revitalized United Nations can continue to play its historic role in guiding the world, its international financial institutions included, through the geopolitical volatility that is destabilizing the global economic and financial order. Reorganization should not mean, however, the loss of vital country programmes, especially for small countries. The United Nations must continue its irreplaceable work on behalf of women, and Grenada is pleased to serve on the board of UN-Women and to contribute to its endeavours. Revitalization and reform must also take place in the Caribbean. To that end, we call for the complete removal of the economic, commercial and financial blockade of our sister Caribbean State of Cuba. The United States embargo against Cuba, now almost 50 years old, is in complete contradiction to the spirit of the United Nations Charter. Removal of the embargo has been specifically called for by the leaders of the Caribbean Community as well as by an overwhelming majority of States Members of the United Nations. Cuba plays a significant humanitarian and development role in the Caribbean and its economic liberation from the embargo will allow it to contribute even more through the dynamic of growing South-South cooperation. Furthermore, Cuba is now playing a facilitating and mediating role in one of the hemisphere’s longest political crises and thus making a major contribution to peace and security in the Latin American and Caribbean region. Two years after the unfathomable national disaster in our sister nation of Haiti in 2010, thousands of Haitians are nonetheless still homeless and suffering, as their Government remains without sufficient means to complete national rebuilding. Grenada extends its thanks, first and foremost, to all who have pledged and realized those pledges for the benefit of the Haitian people, for we are but one in the Caribbean. Grenada remains steadfast in its commitment to this imperative, and we renew our appeal to the international community to fulfil all its commitments and, where possible, to increase its contributions to the humanitarian and development needs of Haiti. Just some 100 days ago in the city of Rio de Janeiro, our Prime Minister, Mr. Tillman Thomas, said: “The United Nations is indispensable to the future we need. Grenada considers the United Nations to be best placed for decision-making affecting the international body politic. Indeed, the United Nations has the full legitimacy needed to command authority [and] secure consensus and the necessary trust among all global stakeholders. We recommit to the United Nations and support its reforms.” To conclude, on 6 August, Grenada made history, winning its first Olympic medal, a gold in the men’s 400-metre race, thus becoming, according to one calculation, the country with the highest medal per capita ratio in the world. Our people have not yet ceased to celebrate winning gold. Another enduring act celebrated around the world, however, was the graciousness demonstrated by the eventual winner, Kirani James, when he embraced and exchanged bibs with his co-competitor Oscar Pistorius, the outstanding double amputee from South Africa, who despite running an extraordinarily good race came in second behind the soon-to-be Olympic gold medallist. It was a simple Grenadian gesture of admiration, friendship and solidarity, but one that underscores that the human spirit must prevail in relations among individuals and, we dare say, among nations. That one simple act of recognition of the right and, far more important, the nobility of another human being transformed two runners into two brothers, one South African, one Grenadian, one shared humanity. We name that the Kirani spirit, and we charge this institution with the Kirani spirit — “charge” as in giving it energy; charge as in commanding to do likewise; charge as in holding the collective responsible for our humanity; charge as in charging each nation and each people with their own big-spiritedness.﻿Leadership is about making choices. It is about the ability to make the right decision at the right moment and to have the stamina to deliver accordingly. It is about the will to help shape the future of individuals, nations and the planet. And it is about the courage that comes with seeking peace with one’s enemies, as Yitzhak Rabin once told us. Leadership is also about creating the conditions for people to choose how to live their lives. Freedom is more than the mere absence of physical or legal obstacles. The very purpose of the United Nations is to promote freedom for all people — freedom from want, freedom from fear, and the freedom to live in dignity. People are only truly free when they are able to choose the way they want to live their own lives, regardless of race, gender or sexual orientation. It is the freedom of a woman to choose when to have children and also when not to have them. It is about her freedom from intrusion of her physical integrity, as well as her right to think and say what she wants. It is about the freedom that allows mother and child to survive birth, and the freedom that allows every child to live a healthy life, receive education and walk to school without fear of land mines or cluster munitions. It is about the freedom of every man and every woman to organize, to speak out and to have their say as society progresses. Those freedoms lay the ground for development and prosperity. They give men and women a chance to build a better future for themselves and for their families. Some people can only dream about those freedoms, but when they do exist they are often the result of collective action by families, communities, regions and States and at the global level. At the end of the day, that is why we are here in this Assembly. In Syria, mass atrocities are continuing. The crisis in Syria started with a call for freedom and dignity through peaceful protests. The Syrian Government bears the primary responsibility. The privileges of the few should no longer stand in the way of the aspirations of the many. The regime of Bashar Al-Assad has lost all legitimacy and must cede power. The violence in Syria must stop. Even in war, there are rules. All parties have clear responsibilities under international humanitarian law. To any party that commits violations of these principles, I say this: “You are all individually responsible. When justice prevails, you will be held accountable for the crimes you have committed. Do not expect to be pardoned by stating that your opponent committed the same crime.” When the United Nations was formed in San Francisco in 1945, we collectively decided to establish a Security Council to act on our behalf. The permanent members were then entrusted with the right of veto. My country’s delegation at the time was led by Mr. Trygve Lie, who would later become the Organization’s first Secretary-General. On behalf of my country, he cast his vote in favour of the right of veto for the five permanent members, as did many other small and medium-sized countries. They did so not only to reflect the world order of the day, but also to ensure that the Council would have genuine authority to make decisions and be able to act on our behalf. They did not do so because they held certain States to be superior to others. Therefore, and in the light of the Syrian drama, my message to the members of the Security Council is that people in the Arab world, in Europe, in Asia, in Africa and in the Americas are watching with horror how history is repeating itself. Once again, the permanent members of the Security Council are divided and unable to protect people on the ground. In its absence, extremists on all sides are free to kill, maim and rape. We now expect the members of the Council to act. We expect them to put away outdated ideas of zero-sum games or spheres of influence and to strive to seek a common position. Enough blood has been shed. The verdict is harsh against those who choose the wrong side of history. They must not allow narrow self-interest to block the winds of change that the vast majority of members of this Assembly applaud. President Al-Assad of Syria was not forced to take the path of conflict and confrontation; he could have opted for compromise and cooperation. Elsewhere in the world, quite different choices are being made. Today in this Assembly, we have heard how Myanmar’s reformist President Thein Sein is opening the door for a free and democratic Myanmar. I commend the courage shown by the Myanmar Government. I also commend the courage of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. She has chosen to talk to the very people who once held her in confinement. Earlier today in Addis Ababa, the leaders of the Sudan and South Sudan made the choice to end the bloody conflict that has marred their peoples’ lives for decades. The Sudan and South Sudan had again been on the brink of war, but by signing today’s agreements they have opted for peace. We salute the African Union, which has, in close partnership with the Security Council, helped make that choice possible. In Colombia, the Government and representatives of the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia have made the wise choice of entering into formal negotiations in order to end another age-old conflict. As Norway’s Foreign Minister, I am the Chair of the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee for the Coordination of International Assistance to Palestinians. We met on the eve of this session of the General Assembly. I want to take this opportunity to share with Member States my deep concern about the state of play in the Israel- Palestine relationship. Exactly one year ago, we agreed here in New York that the Palestinian State-building process had reached a level where the institutions of State were in place. Great expectations were created, only to be frustrated. Time is running short — shorter than many seem to understand. There is significant fatigue among the Palestinian population. They may become inspired to look for alternative options — options that would severely hamper the prospects of Palestinians and Israelis alike. I see a similar fatigue emerging among the countries that are funding the Palestinian authorities. The two-State solution is the only path to sustainable peace, but the prospect of realizing a Palestinian State based on the two-State solution is diminishing as the expansion of Israeli settlements continues. Those actions remain the main obstacle to peace and they must stop. To get the peace process back on track, we need to break the impasse and reinstall the trust in a political horizon based on the final status issues. Negotiations remain the key to achieve that; they must start now. Leadership is also about trust. To achieve our goals, we need a strong United Nations. I applaud the Secretary-General’s tireless efforts aimed at reforming the internal workings of the Organization. We have elected a Secretary-General to lead, but we must allow him to do so. Intergovernmental micromanagement of what would be the chief executive’s prerogative in any modern organization is nothing but the opposite of making the United Nations work. To conclude, leaders have real choices. Leaders have real responsibilities. Humankind shapes its own future. Failing to solve the most critical challenges of our time not only harms those who suffer under poverty, war or oppression; it also deprives people of the conviction that they too can shape their own future. And that very conviction, that belief in oneself and each other, is what will make freedom from want, freedom from fear and the freedom to live in dignity possible for all. That is the purpose of our leadership.﻿On behalf of the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, I congratulate Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. His proven skills and charming personality leave no room for doubt that under his able leadership we will achieve our goals for this session. Sri Lanka is also pleased to endorse the theme proposed by him for this year’s high-level debate. For 67 years, the United Nations has provided the premier forum for the resolution of international disputes and the negotiation of landmark global goals. In the conduct of international relations, Sri Lanka, a founding member of the Non-Aligned Movement, firmly upholds the tenets of peaceful coexistence, mutual respect for each other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, non-interference in the internal affairs of other States, equality and mutual benefit. Sri Lanka believes that, in the settlement of international disputes, action must be based on the fundamental principle of the sovereign equality of States, a principle firmly enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. The noticeable recent tendency to selectively and arbitrarily intervene in the internal affairs of States f lies in the face of this principle and dilutes the confidence so carefully nurtured in the United Nations system. The global financial crisis has posed a major challenge to the entire international community. In this context, it is of the greatest importance to ensure that any strategies employed to achieve recovery do not impose unjustifiable burdens on developing countries, as they strive to achieve better living conditions for their people. A recovery that does not simultaneously uplift developing countries will be, by its very nature, unsustainable. It is paradoxical that the very countries in which the financial crisis originated now seek to provide policy prescriptions for others. It has been noted that many countries of the South have weathered the financial storm successfully. Sri Lanka’s economy, which has been carefully managed during this period, is one of the Asian economies that has recorded impressive gains by any standard. A growth rate of 8.2 per cent was achieved in 2011. Following the end of the conflict in 2009, the areas formerly controlled by terrorists, namely the northern province, recorded a 27 per cent growth in gross domestic product in 2011. The exponential boom in agriculture and fisheries in particular has contributed substantially to this result. We are now at a significant juncture in human history, as climate change looms as the greatest challenge to the very existence of humanity. Many developing countries, including my own, are still struggling to regain lost opportunities and improve the livelihood of their people while staring global warming in the face. Our carbon footprint remains negligible. It is imperative that the developed world deliver on its solemn undertakings to assist developing countries, as we seek the common goal of arresting climate change, which is caused by human activities. The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), held in June 2012, demonstrated convincingly the efficacy of United Nations processes. The potential of the green economy, however, will be less attractive if we do not clearly understand its long- term consequences at the national level for sustainable economic strategies. The transition to a green economy must not generate negative externalities that retard economic growth and perpetuate societal inequity and poverty. Assistance to developing countries under North-South development cooperation mechanisms must take into account global initiatives to mitigate the adverse consequences of too rigid an application of green economic principles. The efforts of developing countries themselves in this regard must be recognized and further facilitated. As Member States, we must respect the principles patiently negotiated by the international community. These are, in particular, the equality of rights, the equal sovereignty of all States and the right to development, as underlined in the Rio+20 outcome document (resolution 66/288, annex). The interests of the developing world must be entrenched and protected. Hence, no constraining conditions should be applied to development models or approaches adopted by Member States that could prevent the achievement of sustainable development together with the eradication of poverty. The middle-income countries are the main driving force for strengthening our global economy. Sri Lanka’s balanced socioeconomic policy strategies propelled us to middle-income status a few years ago. As we have repeatedly emphasized, countries’ attainment of middle-income status does not by itself provide a solution to the issue of poverty and other development challenges. I wish to mention in particular that Sri Lanka employs a unique development strategy that empowers citizens, with special attention to social development needs. It has continued to achieve transformational change in the lives of its people by effectively mobilizing available resources and delivering sustainable and citizen-centred programmes. Sri Lanka has emphasized synergistic interactions between health care and education, public infrastructure development, including improved water and sanitation, transport and communications, especially under an integrated regional development approach, which we consider to be important. We also enjoy a 98 per cent literacy rate, with the score for girls being even higher. The success of this strategy is reflected in Sri Lanka’s high ranking on the human development index, of which we are legitimately proud. Sri Lanka has achieved many of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and is well on track to realize all of them by 2015, including the eradication of poverty. Eradicating poverty and improving the quality of life of our people has been the cornerstone of social development policies in Sri Lanka over many decades. Sri Lanka’s key policy document, “Mahinda Chintana —Vision for the Future”, has set specific targets to combat poverty within the MDG framework. A range of projects has been designed for the eradication of poverty by 2016. Through the Gama Naguma and Divi Naguma programmes, which deal with village awakening and the enhancement of livelihoods and incomes, we have been addressing rural poverty eradication and ensuring food security. These programmes continue to promote the concept of self-employment, directing financial and technical assistance to youth and women in rural areas, including those who suffered from the terrorist conflict. The contribution of women in Sri Lanka’s successful realization of most of the MDGs is of great significance. Women who are literate also encourage their children to focus on education and aspire to higher goals. It is through the participation of women that Sri Lanka has been recognized for its achievements in the World Health Organization breastfeeding promotion and immunization programmes. I note with great pride that Sri Lanka produced the first elected woman Prime Minister in the world in 1960. We have made genuine efforts to ensure that the fruits of economic development are equally distributed and are accessible, especially to the most vulnerable segments of society. We have ensured that social mobility is not confined to the privileged in the towns and cities of the island, but penetrates deep into the rural hinterland. Three years ago, our Government ended the terrorist challenge largely through its own efforts. Sri Lanka is firmly committed to redressing the grievances of all parties affected by the internal conflict. After the release of the report of the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission, a local mechanism set in place by the President of Sri Lanka, an action plan to give expeditious effect to its recommendations was adopted. A comprehensive national action plan for human rights with specific timelines has been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Government has also proposed a transparent and democratic process under a parliamentary select committee to address post-conflict reconciliation issues. That initiative has, regrettably, been delayed by the failure of some opposition parties to nominate their representatives. Sri Lanka exemplifies the challenges faced by a society emerging from the shadow of a sustained conflict that spanned three decades; the country is now entering an era of peace and tranquillity. The gradual diminution of the challenges and the brevity of the period that has elapsed since the end of the conflict leave no room for doubt as to the degree of success achieved by the Government of Sri Lanka with respect to a wide range of issues relating to development and reconciliation. It has only been about three years since the conflict ended. Prioritization was a central feature of the Government’s plan of action. The progress on the ground during the last three years with regard to the resettlement of internally displaced persons; the reintegration into society of thousands of ex-combatants after exposure to programmes of livelihood skills training, which equipped them to earn their living with dignity and independence; the rapid completion of the mine-clearance process; and the unprecedented focus on infrastructure development leading to very visible invigoration of the economy of the island as a whole, and the Northern province in particular, are quite apparent. The experience of Sri Lanka demonstrates that, with the dynamic leadership of high quality and the unwavering commitment that President Mahinda Rajapaksa has provided, along with an effective political and military strategy and strong rapport with all sections of the public, it is possible to prevail against the most ruthless forces of terror. No one has a greater commitment to reconciliation in an all-inclusive spirit than our Government. Unhelpful external pressures that support narrow partisan interests could easily derail initiatives that have produced very substantial results and peace on the ground, as we begin a new and exciting chapter in our country’s history. In the international community’s quest to bring some semblance of equity to economic development across the continents, we must maintain increased focus on the continent of Africa, especially through South- South cooperation. Sri Lanka is vigorously expanding its engagement with the region, especially in matters relating to trade, investment, tourism and technical assistance. All of our current endeavours should have a stronger focus on children and youth, who are the custodians of our future. We have continuously supported resolution 66/6 and the need to end the unjust economic, commercial and financial embargo against Cuba. Unilateral sanctions of that nature, which harm ordinary people, have no place in modern international intercourse. Terrorism remains a scourge in the contemporary world, threatens our societies and impedes the socioeconomic progress of our people. As a country that has emerged from ruthless and brutal terrorism, Sri Lanka continues resolutely to support all multilateral efforts to enhance peace and security and eliminate all forms of terrorism, without discrimination. In our collective quest to eradicate terrorism, the selective application of principles and double standards must be scrupulously avoided. Terrorism from whatever source must be unequivocally condemned and countered. It has been established that terrorism has developed close links with transnational organized crime in the form of cybercrime and identity theft, environment- related crime, maritime piracy, the smuggling of migrants and trafficking in persons and drugs. Maritime piracy has emerged as a major threat to international sea lanes and has added an additional economic burden to global trade. Sri Lanka, which has been a trading nation for centuries, eagerly supports multinational efforts to counter that threat. But it must be remembered that piracy originates on land and that any solution to piracy must also address its causes and developments on land. The illicit transportation of migrants to greener pastures overseas by criminal networks requires our collective attention. Sri Lanka also continues to cooperate closely in that regard with our bilateral and multilateral partners. As a member of the Bali Process, we are committed to cooperation in capacity- building, the exchange of best practices and law enforcement cooperation. At the same time, we believe in the necessity to share information in good faith, acknowledging that action on the part of a variety of Member States, with their various national interests, is essential to counter the sophisticated human smuggling rings. One long-standing issue that weighs on the conscience of the international community and which needs our sustained collective attention is the restoration of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people. Sri Lanka fully supports the implementation of all relevant United Nations resolutions on Palestine, which will pave the way for the achievement of Statehood for the Palestinian people and bring lasting peace to the region. Sri Lanka fully supports Palestine in its efforts to achieve full membership in the United Nations. Sri Lanka unreservedly condemns the defamation of all religions and religious leaders. While the right to free speech is fundamental to our value system, that right should not be abused in order to hurt the feelings of the faithful, whether they be Buddhists, Muslims, Christians, Hindus, Jews or followers of other faiths. All available mechanisms must be employed to prevent the defamation of all religions and the exploitation of religious symbols for commercial purposes. In conclusion, Sri Lanka is currently in the process of making arrangements to host the World Youth Conference in 2014. The primary objective will be the strengthening of youth inclusion in national decision-making processes in relation to the development and implementation of the post-2015 development agenda. I cordially extend an open invitation to all fellow Member States to join hands with us to make that global event a success.﻿As we speak today, the world is being shaken by the depravity of fanatics who have committed acts insulting the faith of more than 1.5 billion Muslims. We strongly condemn such offensive acts, whether they involve the production of a film, the publication of cartoons or indeed any other insults and provocations. Such acts can never be justified as manifestations of freedom of speech or expression. Equally, they cannot become a reason for genuine protests to be used to incite violence and terrible losses of innocent lives. It is a matter for grave concern that our world remains strewn with daily outbreaks of violence, hatred and injustice. In particular, the menace of Islamophobia is a worrying phenomenon that threatens peace and coexistence among cultures and civilizations. I call on leaders in the West, both among politicians and in the media, to confront Islamophobia in all its many forms and manifestations. It is incumbent on us all to advance the cause of dialogue and cooperation, to fight the forces of division and hatred and to fulfil the promise of a better and brighter future for future generations. We must work to defeat the forces that foment conflicts among civilizations, and to support the voices of tolerance and understanding. My country, Afghanistan, is testament to the benefits of multilateral cooperation and international solidarity. It was a little over a decade ago that many countries from around the world joined the Afghan people in our struggle for peace and against the forces of extremism and terrorism. At the time, Afghanistan was a country decimated in every way. For decades we had suffered, unnoticed, from violence, deprivation and sinister foreign intervention. Long before terrorism became a security threat to the whole planet, Afghans were victims of atrocities inf licted by terrorist networks from various parts of the world that had made Afghanistan their haven. Looking back 10 years, Afghanistan has undergone a remarkable transformation. Democracy has taken root; health services are accessible to the majority of the population in every corner of the country; millions of students, boys and girls, are enrolled in primary and higher education. Our achievements have not come about easily, though. The aspirations of the Afghan people for security and peace have yet to be realized. As the global fight against terrorism continues unabated, the Afghan people continue to pay a bigger price than any other nation, in both life and treasure. Terrorism is not rooted in Afghan villages and towns; it never was. Its sources and support networks all exist beyond Afghanistan’s borders. Thus while the security of the international community is being protected from the threat of terrorism, the people of Afghanistan must no longer be made to pay the price and endure the brunt of the war. It is in deference to the immense sacrifices of the Afghan people, and to the precious lives lost from the international community, that the campaign against terrorism must be taken to the sources of terrorism and be results-oriented. Today in Afghanistan, we are pursuing the cause of peace and an end to violence as a matter of great urgency. Since peace is the greatest desire of the Afghan people, and since we are convinced that military efforts alone are not an adequate strategy for ensuring security, we have initiated a peace and reconciliation process, which aims to induce all elements of the armed opposition to take up peaceful lives in our country. At this time last year, my visit to the General Assembly was cut short by the tragic assassination of Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani, the then Chairman of the High Peace Council. A terrorist posing as a peace emissary took his life, and by doing so dealt our peace process a serious blow. This year, however, and fortunately, the late Professor’s son, Mr. Salahuddin Rabbani, who stepped up to take the Chair of the High Peace Council, is part of the Afghan delegation and present in the Assembly today. I have often said that our hand of peace and reconciliation remains extended not only to the Taliban but also to all other armed opposition groups who wish to return to dignified, peaceful and independent lives in their own homeland. What we ask of them in return is simple: bringing an end to violence, cutting ties with terrorist networks, preserving the valuable gains of the past decade and respecting the Constitution of Afghanistan. To help facilitate the peace process, I am asking the Security Council to give its full support to our efforts. In particular, I urge the Security Council Committee established pursuant to resolution 1988 (2011), the Taliban sanctions committee, to make more active efforts to delist Taliban leaders, as a step towards facilitating direct negotiations. In pursuing the path of peace, we remain hopeful about the critical role that our fraternal neighbour the Islamic Republic of Pakistan has to play. Over recent years, we have engaged our brothers in Pakistan in a close dialogue in support of the Afghan peace process. It is a dialogue that we believe is critical for Pakistan’s own security and for the security of the wider region and beyond. We are deeply committed to our brotherly relations with Pakistan, but we are aware of the challenges that may strain our efforts to build trust and confidence. Such incidents as the recent shelling of Afghan villages risk undermining the efforts of both Governments to work together in the interest of our common security and prosperity. For the past two years, our national priority has been to have Afghanistan’s own security forces assume full responsibility for the security of our country and our people. The transition process will be completed by mid-2013 and NATO and International Security Assistance Force forces withdrawn from our country by the end of 2014. Apart from advancing transition and pursuing the peace process, the past year has been one of significant progress for consolidating international commitment and partnership. In Chicago in May, we received the long-term commitment of NATO and other countries to training, equipping and ensuring the sustainability of the Afghan National Security Forces. In Tokyo this past July, the international community reaffirmed its strong commitment to Afghanistan’s social and economic development during the transformation decade, for which we are grateful. The Mutual Accountability Framework adopted in Tokyo sets in place a clear structure for a more results- oriented partnership and cooperation. We welcome the international community’s readiness to align aid with our national priorities and channel assistance through the Afghan budget. For our part, we have reiterated our determination to improve governance and to collaborate with our international partners to wipe out the cancer of corruption, whether it is in the Afghan Government or the international aid system. We recognize that Afghanistan’s destiny is tied to the region that surrounds it, with respect both to our common threats, such as terrorism, extremism and narcotics, and to the opportunities we must grasp to grow and prosper. In that context, the Istanbul Process presents a new agenda for security, confidence-building and cooperation across the region of which Afghanistan is the centre. We will spare no effort to build strong and lasting relations with our neighbors near and extended. Turning to the international arena, Afghanistan views the situation in Syria with much concern. Over the course of the past year, thousands of our Syrian brothers and sisters have lost their lives due to an escalating cycle of violence. We welcome the appointment of the new Joint Special Representative for Syria of the United Nations and League of Arab States, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi. We know him very well. Mr. Brahimi is well respected in Afghanistan, and he brings vast experience and a unique ability to the task before him. Here, I say to the people of Syria that we Afghans have experienced violence ourselves, and we know what it takes to rebuild a country. I hope very much, on behalf of the Afghan people, that the Syrians will sit down together as soon as possible and find a way to end the violence, since it will be not easy to repair. The continuing plight of the Palestinian people has been a source of deep distress for Afghanistan and the rest of the international community. The people of Palestine have suffered immensely for far too long. We remain in full support of the realization of the rights of our brothers and sisters in Palestine, including their right to an independent Palestinian State. The time has come for an end to the occupation and for realizing the just aspirations of the people of Palestine. Finally, reform of the United Nations remains an important item on the international agenda. Since its inception in 1945, the United Nations has exercised a key role in promoting a safer and more secure world, improving the lives of citizens worldwide, and safeguarding and promoting human rights. Nevertheless, in view of our ever-changing world, we cannot deny the fact that the Organization is in dire need of comprehensive reform, enabling it to better reflect the new challenges and realities of our time. The reform of the Security Council is long overdue. Achieving a reformed Council that is more inclusive, representative and transparent must remain a priority. We welcome the ongoing progress within the framework of the intergovernmental negotiations.﻿On behalf the delegation of Guinea, which I have the great honour to lead, I would like first of all to congratulate the President on his election to guide the work of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session at a time when our Organization is facing multiple challenges. That mark of trust placed in him is a vibrant tribute to his country, the Republic of Serbia, as well as to his recognized diplomatic qualities, which augur well for the success of our deliberations. His predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, of Qatar, deserves our gratitude and thanks for his excellent work. I should also like to express my Government’s highest appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his dynamism and determination in the exercise of his mandate. The theme of this session, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, lies at the very heart of the uncertainty that weighs on the future of humanity. The emergence of new forms of violence at the hands of numerous actors and non-State groups, international terrorism, and above all the proliferation of small arms and light weapons, all constitute grounds for concern. While inter-State conflicts have decreased in recent years, intra-State conflicts in certain regions of the world have led to political instability, general insecurity and human tragedies, with their attendant economic, social and environmental crises. It follows that the peaceful settlement of disputes, as a fundamental principle of international relations, is becoming more indispensable than ever for the maintenance of international peace and security. That principle requires sustainable preventive strategies and concerted efforts on the part of regional and subregional organizations along with international development partners. The critical need for States to promote and defend the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and of international law is the bulwark par excellence against attempts against the territorial integrity and sovereignty of States. International mediation as a means of prevention or a way to end violence through dialogue, along with negotiation and the achievement of final agreements, should be given pride of place. In that context, the Guinean delegation encourages the rapid deployment of mediators and experts. It also wishes to offer its emphatic support to the Secretary-General’s initiative encouraging the role of women in the mediation process. In developing States, especially in Africa, mediation and settlement mechanisms should be strengthened through capacity-building and the allocation of sufficient resources to assure a holistic and effective approach. The institutionalization at the national, regional and international levels of a culture of peace that includes dialogue between civilizations and religious tolerance is the irreversible path towards a world of solidarity and peace. In West Africa, where the northern part of our neighbour, Mali, has been occupied for months by terrorist and rebel groups, the strengthening of democratic institutions and the restoration of territorial integrity constitute the primary challenges of note. Guinea reiterates its support for the initiatives of the Economic Community of Western African States and the African Union in their search for a solution to that crisis, whose effects on the countries of the subregion could well be devastating. In that regard, Guinea joins the Government of Mali in urgently demanding the Security Council to deploy an international contingent to restore the territorial integrity of that brother country. In Guinea-Bissau, the consolidation of peace and stability requires the restoration of all democratic institutions. With respect to the Great Lakes countries, we support the efforts of the international community and the Central African Economic and Monetary Community, which seek to restore peace and security in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which is fundamental for the stability of that country and the region. In the Horn of Africa, there has been encouraging progress with respect to the peace process in Somalia. The implementation of a new federal Parliament, the adoption of a new interim Constitution and the election on 10 September of Mr. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud as President of the Republic, all demonstrate the commitment of the Somali people, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, the African Union and the United Nations to support peace, democracy and reconciliation in that country. The Government of Guinea would like, at this time, to express its warmest congratulations to the African Union Military Observer Mission in Somalia. Guinea also supports the ongoing negotiations between the Governments of the Sudan and South Sudan regarding post-independence issues, in accordance with the African Union road map of 24 April 2011, as approved by the Security Council in its resolution 2046 (2012). We welcome the agreement reached by the parties on sharing petroleum revenue. In the Middle East, the restoration of lasting peace in the region must of necessity depend on the creation of an independent Palestinian State, living in peace and security side by side with the State of Israel. The situation in Syria increasingly cries out to the international community. We urge the concerned parties to spare no efforts to halt the violence, protect the population and restore peace. My Government reaffirms its support for the declaration on Syria of the recent extraordinary session of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation. The adoption on 21 June of the outcome document (resolution 66/288, annex) of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) offered the international community an opportunity to renew its political commitment to sustainable development in all its dimensions — economic, social and environmental. The priority of the international community today should be the effective implementation of the commitments made to take into account the legitimate concerns of all countries, in particular in Africa. To that end, Guinea remains convinced that defining a post-2015 development agenda must take into account the complementarity of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the sustainable development goals resulting from Rio+20 in order to ensure maximum benefit from the subsequent synergy. In consideration of Africa’s post-2015 development agenda, at the proposal of my country, the fifth Joint Annual Meetings of the African Union Conference of Ministers of Economy and Finance and the Economic Commission for Africa Conference of African Ministers of Finance, Planning and Economic Development, held in Addis Ababa in March, and the seventeenth session of the High-level Committee on South-South Cooperation, held in New York in May, agreed to promote South- South and triangular coalition. South-South and triangular cooperation is now becoming a new modality for international cooperation in order to deal with the debt and financial market crises and the lack of traditional official development assistance and implement international development goals, such as the MDGs and the Istanbul Programme of Action, among others. From this rostrum, I would like to launch an urgent appeal to all Member States and development partners to support that innovative initiative of solidarity by the international community towards Africa. The continent remains the weakest link in the international development mechanism despite its vast potential and its economic performance in recent years. Since the election in 2010 of President Alpha Condé to the highest office, the Government has undertaken an vast programme of democratization and political, institutional, economic and social reforms. At the political level, a law on the fair reconstitution of the Independent National Electoral Commission, adopted by the National Transition Council, was approved by the President. We hope that that will open the way for the holding of legislative elections by the end of the year. I would like to reiterate the Government’s commitment to continuing to promote human rights and to ensure public freedoms. To meet the various challenges facing the country following the 2010 presidential election, the Government has submitted to the Peacebuilding Commission a request for support and assistance in three priority areas, namely, national reconciliation and unity, security sector reform and youth and women’s employment. Those priorities resulted in a statement of mutual commitment, adopted here in New York on 23 September 2011 in the presence of our Head of State. A year later, the implementation of those mutual commitments has produced encouraging results thanks to the significant efforts of the Government, the United Nations and other partners. I would especially like to welcome the significant progress in security sector reform, in particular the biometric census of troops and the retirement of nearly 4,000 soldiers. In order to build on those achievements, we believe that Guinea and its partners should benefit from the momentum and trust created by those initial steps to continue the reform by extending it to all components of the security sector, in particular the police and the judiciary. We are convinced that strengthening the security and stability of the country and of the subregion depend on that. In the economic and social field, there has been significant progress in combating the macroeconomic imbalances and in improving prospects for growth and people’s living conditions. Those policies enabled Guinea to reach the completion point of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative a few days ago, following meetings of the Executive Boards of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. The subsequent foreign debt relief will make it possible to release significant financial resources to investment in basic social services to alleviate poverty. The normalization of relations with creditors, restoring the State’s credibility, will promote access to new foreign financial resources. However, the Government of Guinea is aware that reaching the completion point is only a first step and that many challenges must be overcome to launch the country on the path of sustainable growth. Our objective is to rapidly raise the country to the ranks of an emerging economy through the exploitation of its natural resources. I would like to conclude by reiterating Guinea’s firm support for efforts to reform the General Assembly and the Security Council so as to strengthen the effectiveness and democratic governance of our universal Organization.﻿First of all, let me congratulate His Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, I wish him every success in carrying out his important functions. It is also a great pleasure to express my gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for his successful, fruitful leadership of the work of the Assembly’s previous session. It would be difficult to say that the overall situation in the world has improved. We have not yet fully recovered from one of the most serious global economic crises in the past 65 years. Yes, the overall economic situation is gradually normalizing. Proof of that is the improving forecasts for world economic growth by key international organizations for this year. However, we should point out that risks remain and that the recovery process is still very uncertain. It is unfortunate that the world has not become any safer. We are seeing a rise in confrontations and tension in various parts of the world. Global climate change, population growth against the background of a deteriorating environment, the scarcity of natural resources and of access to drinking water, and many other problems are in the aggregate stoking tensions and the potential for conflict in areas of cooperation on the international arena. Traditional ways of life are changing fast under the impact of globalization processes. States are finding it increasingly hard to tackle modern challenges by themselves because of the transborder nature of those challenges. Terrorism, separatism, extremism, drugs, information wars — these are a kind of tumour for humankind and cannot be eradicated at the local level alone. Sadly, there are forces at work in the world that wish to drag humankind to the brink of the precipice, to kindle the flames of hostility wherever they go. One glaring example is the video Innocence of Muslims, which symbolically appeared on the eve of the General Assembly session. Kyrgyzstan condemns the provocative nature of its content. It is unacceptable to insult anyone’s religious sensibilities, regardless of their faith. Humanism, tolerance and mutual respect make the world better and safer. Therefore, we also reject the use of force against diplomats — envoys of peace and a symbol of cooperation — of any country. Humankind is developing and changing fast. Regional, and even local, events can impact on global processes. In 2011, we observed with sympathy and solidarity the events in the Middle East and North Africa. The situation in Syria that we have seen this year can only be a cause of serious concern for the international community. All attempts to resolve the military conflict and restore stability to that county have, sadly, failed. With regard to the thousands of civilian victims, the Kyrgyz Republic strongly advocates a speedy end to the violence in that country, the opening of a broad national dialogue between the political forces and a continuation of political and socioeconomic reform and participation of all Syrian citizens. The Afghan factor continues to be a source of threat to international security. There are concerns that a full, swift drawdown of coalition forces could open the way for destructive forces and the emergence of various extremist and terrorist groups in neighbouring countries. Every stakeholder in the world can make a contribution to the issue of security by reviving Afghanistan’s economy and developing trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian ties with the country, as well as its communication infrastructure. Since 2001 Kyrgyzstan has played its part in that process, rendering assistance to the counter-terrorist coalition in Afghanistan through the cargo Transit Center at Manas International Airport. It is clear that the counter-terrorist coalition, with the withdrawal of the military contingent from Afghanistan, must bring its mission to a logical conclusion to create the foundation of a national administrative system for that country so that all branches of power can be fully functional throughout the territory of Afghanistan. We must do our utmost for the economic rehabilitation of Afghanistan by engaging it in the development of regional cooperation and implementing joint socioeconomic projects between international organizations and financial institutions. In that regard, Kyrgyzstan is ready to expand trade and economic ties to export electricity to Afghanistan as part of the CASA-1000 project, with the support of donor countries and the international financial institutions. The peaceful development of Afghanistan is impossible without eradicating the systemic, ubiquitous cultivation of opium in that country. For many years Afghanistan has been the biggest producer and exporter of drugs. The growing penetration of that deadly crop is harming the countries of Central Asia. Not only are they on the northern transit route towards the countries of Europe and Asia, they are also progressively becoming consumers. Drugs are the enemy of civilized humankind. Where there are drugs, there are international organized crime groups and transborder challenges. Easy money earned at the cost of people’s lives has no productive basis. It brings destruction and the degradation of human value. Drugs also spawn corruption and erode State systems from the inside. Criminal proceeds are used to bribe law enforcement bodies and the judiciary. They fund corrupt politicians who seek power. The international community must provide technical, economic and other support to Afghanistan’s neighbours, including the Central Asian countries, to build an effective shield to neutralize and localize drug trafficking from Afghanistan. We believe that the mission of the United Nations, as the single universal multilateral Organization, is to be on the front line in tackling all modern challenges and issues. We should recognize that the global prevention architecture, the international and regional security system of today, does not reflect the requirements of our time. It is unfortunate that despite the search for universal methods for mediation and peaceful conflict resolution, the international community still has not resolved those issues. The need to reform the United Nations architecture and adapt it to the realities of the modern international situation has not abated. A top priority is the reform of principal organs of the United Nations, namely, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council. We should point out that the tasks of those structures, in the light of the current international situation, require serious transformation and integration of fundamentally new approaches. In terms of the reform of the United Nations, we propose the expansion of the membership of the Security Council to make it more representative, transparent and democratic. The reform should be based on principles of universality, efficiency and broad geographic representation, particularly for those countries that have not yet had the chance to take part in its work as non-permanent members. At the same time, we need to strengthen the coordinating role of the Economic and Social Council as a global governance mechanism on issues of sustainable development, food security, humanitarian assistance, environmental cooperation and achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by the 2015 deadline. The current global situation dictates the need to consolidate the efforts of all countries to develop tangible action based on objective, fair ref lection of their interests and needs. On that basis, the Kyrgyz Republic has submitted its candidature for the Economic and Social Council for the period 2013-2015. If elected by Member States to that organ with such enormous potential, the Kyrgyz Republic intends to play its part in tackling problems on the global agenda. The problems of sustainable development and global climate change have presented serious challenges in recent years, and the attention of the international community must not slacken. In supporting the global discussions on a green economy model that took place at the Rio+20 Conference on Sustainable Development, Kyrgyzstan chose its future path towards long-term sustainable green development and an environment-minded economy. We would like to confirm our commitment to developing our economy through complying with requirements to protect our environment and with a safe approach to national resources, which are a national asset. At Rio+20, the importance of development issues concerning mountainous areas was acknowledged with regard to managing global natural resources, as was the need for support for the sustainable development of mountain regions in developing countries. It should be noted that despite the assistance of the international financial institutions, developing mountain States continue to suffer difficulties. High levels of poverty and isolation, increasing transport costs and large foreign debts comprise the main problems facing mountain countries. In that situation, it will be difficult to achieve the MDGs and attain the status set out in the United Nations documents on sustainable development. In that respect, I wish to call attention to the importance of the launching of international discussions on the question of exchanging Kyrgyzstan’s foreign debt for sustainable development projects. We call on the United Nations and its entities to render support on that matter. By the will of God, we gained independence 21 years ago. Previous leaders were unable to cope with the task of building a truly independent Kyrgyzstan. They could not build an effective, transparent State system for governing that would work for the benefit of the people. Most of the important issues were tackled behind closed doors, without informing society. For the sake of personal enrichment and gain, some State decisions were even taken to the detriment of national interests. The former Kyrgyz leaders declared a course for democracy that in fact did not take place. The former regimes established a clan-like system of governance that f louted the principles of a free society and usurped power. They not only attempted to hand power down to their children, but brought the people to their knees merely for the sake of their personal enrichment. The freedom-loving people of Kyrgyzstan therefore carried out two revolutions, in 2005 and 2010, in response to the unjust, tyrannical and authoritarian power. The latest choice has proved a difficult one for our people, despite our commitment to democratic values, which is almost hard-wired in the Kyrgyz people, part of their very heritage. Over 100 glorious sons of our country laid down their lives for democracy during the April revolution of 2010. Their memory lives on. Also, 1,500 people were injured. Over the past two years, our country has begun to implement new, democratic governance. The Kyrgyz people have chosen a parliamentary, presidential form of governance. We believe that was a just decision. According to impartial observers, our country has made significant progress during the past year in terms of building a democratic State. We began under difficult conditions. In the years of independence in Kyrgyzstan, industry virtually ground to a halt. No new jobs were created. Labour migration grew. One third of the working population was forced to find employment abroad. We were left with ineffective public administration institutions, low per-capita income, a reduced budget, rampant corruption and organized crime, as well as unhampered drug-trafficking from Afghanistan to the north, east and west. Currently, we are waging an uncompromising struggle against the corruption that is wearing away the State system from within. Civil servants who are found to be involved in corruption are being prosecuted under the law. In modern Kyrgyzstan, there will be no caste of those whom the law does not touch. The battle against corruption is already seeing tangible results. Senior State officials under investigation have been arrested, including members of Parliament, ministers, their deputies and others. Leaders of organized crime groups are either in prison or on the run outside of the country. We are determined to extradite for prosecution those people for whom international warrants have been issued. In the name of fairness, the former leaders of Kyrgyzstan, who have taken shelter in neighbouring countries along with their inner circle, must be sanctioned in strict compliance with Kyrgyz legislation. Kyrgyzstan stresses that they are being prosecuted not for politically motivated acts, but for specific crimes punishable by law. They gave the orders to open fire on peaceful civilians and to destroy innocent people. They pillaged their own people and the country’s budget and took enormous financial assets out of the country. They have used criminal gains to buy villas, land and other costly material goods. In such issues, punishment must be just and inevitable so as to deter future leaders from repeating such actions. Therefore, we still hope that the Byelorussian authorities, partners of ours in the Collective Security Treaty Organization and the Eurasian Economic Union and who have assumed responsibilities under the Minsk and Kishinev Conventions, will show their commitment to their international legal obligations and extradite the relatives and the retinue of the former President of Kyrgyzstan, Kurmanbek Bakiyev, who have been hiding in their territory and even have Byelorussian passports. The United Nations needs to establish clear standards and procedures to ensure justice at the international level, and especially for the return of illegally gained assets. Kyrgyzstan is steadfastly building a parliamentary democracy, a direct authority that represents the people, their wishes and their needs. At present, there are processes in place that are gradually bringing our society to a healthy state. Today, Parliament is engaged in political processes. Gradually, polemics and arguments are transitioning from street democracy to a civilized form for resolving any significant controversial issues within the walls of Parliament. Under the national Constitution, the Kyrgyz Parliament is the highest representative body, carrying out the functions of legislative authority and control. The Government is fully accountable to the Parliament. A major test, and at the same time an indicator, is the fact that since the adoption of the new Constitution in 2011, we have seen the peaceful launch of all institutions of authority in accordance with the letter of the law. The members of Parliament have been elected. At the end of 2011 we saw, for the first time in Kyrgyzstan’s history, a peaceful transfer of power from the President to the newly elected Head of State, Almazbek Atambayev. A functioning coalition Government is in place. We are reforming the judicial system, which must be equitable and fully independent. Despite strong opposition from certain quarters who are not interested in seeing the successful conclusion of that issue, we have, in the space of two years, launched a new, transparent mechanism for the selection of judges. In mid-September, the Parliament approved the 25 judges of the Supreme Court. The selection of judges to the Constitutional Court and local courts is also under way. The establishment of an independent judiciary is extremely important for us. It will allow us to achieve a just public administration in which every citizen will be equal before the law. We are working effectively with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and other agencies on the legal system and on improving legislation to ensure everyone’s equality before the law. With the participation of the Parliament, the country has undertaken planning and reforms in all spheres of the State system — in the justice system, law enforcement, taxation, oversight and others. All of that requires stronger legislation. Kyrgyzstan is taking its first steps in the new format of a parliamentary republic. Sustainable development depends on the level of governance, on the rule of law and on human rights. We believe in the bright future of our country and that very soon all our countrymen will be able to say with pride that they are the citizens of a strong, prosperous Kyrgyzstan. One can more clearly see the sanctity of our fatherland and our true values of independence from afar. I would like to appeal to my countrymen from the highest podium in the world. Twenty years ago, God granted us the independence that our ancestors had dreamed of for centuries, for which they had shed their blood and sacrificed their lives. The freedom that was sent down to our people as a blessing should be strengthened without division, by tireless effort and labour united in harmony. Regardless of provocation by two-faced forces, we need to continue to strengthen the path on which we set forth. Let us build a strong, united beloved Kyrgyzstan. To reach a bright future we need to continue to move forward. Life is a struggle between light and dark, good and bad. We need unity. We need work and welfare, not animosity and discord. May the Creator bless our nation as it moves towards bright goals. Unfortunately, our country is still weak and economically dependent. We are not free in the choice of our foreign sources of energy, but that problem is gradually being tackled with the assistance of our strategic partners. Kyrgyzstan needs the help of the international community to tackle the problem of our foreign debt, which is hampering the process of economic growth of the State and the implementation of fundamental reforms. We fully share what Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said here in his opening statement at the Assembly’s sixty-seventh session, namely, that developing States need support (see A/67/PV.1). We believe that developing democracies in particular need support from countries of the democratic club and from economically developed States. To consolidate parliamentary democracy, Kyrgyzstan vitally needs the support of our principal partners for the complex reforms undertaken in restructuring or in writing off of Kyrgyzstan’s State debt. I wish to stress that we have a clear vision of how to conduct reforms and how to achieve development of the State. However, in the light of the high deficit, we need significant additional resources, which we will certainly return once we have achieved development and prosperity in the country in the coming years. We are open to mutually beneficial, trusting partnerships and cooperation with all States. Kyrgyzstan has great economic potential. We are an open country, willing to engage in mutual dialogue. We have great industrial and metallurgical potential. In Kyrgyzstan you can find most of the elements on Mendeleev’s table of elements. Critically important for many energy projects, we have a highly qualified labour force and cheap electricity. In the modern world, energy is the driver of progress. Kyrgyzstan has huge hydroelectric potential, which we have begun to exploit. Every year we develop around 14 billion kilowatts per hour of electricity, which is not enough to satisfy the hydro-energy demand of Kyrgyzstan, which is around 142.5 billion kilowatts per hour. On 20 September, Kyrgyzstan and Russia concluded an agreement that is vital for the entire Central Asian region on building and operationalizing the Kambar- Ata and the Naryn Cascade power plants. Participation in building one of the biggest hydroelectric projects in Central Asia will include our neighbours in the region and allow Kyrgyzstan not only to increase the development of cost-effective, environmentally clean electricity but also to preserve the water in the foothills that is currently supplying our neighbours during the growing season. The benefit of the effective implementation of such projects is clear. It will enhance our hydroelectric export potential and protect drinking water for our neighbours. We invite all investors to take part in building those projects. To conclude, I would like to note that the international community is undergoing a difficult period. Political and social upheavals are creating numerous obstacles on the path to human development. We are seeing a new era for the world order, combined with new historical challenges and changes. At this critical stage the Organization must continue its lofty mission to build peace and to achieve sustainable development throughout the world. Kyrgyzstan, in the spirit of solidarity and cooperation with the United Nations, is prepared to play its part in tackling the major challenges of this day.﻿It is a happy coincidence — and one that gives me great pleasure — that my fellow countryman, who is presiding at this meeting, has given me the f loor. Despite progress in the field of knowledge and forecasting, the evolution of humankind remains subject to uncertainties. In that connection, the work of the United Nations, which is the appropriate forum for seeking collective solutions to the many challenges that make up our world, is markedly affected by those uncertainties. The persistence and resurgence of hotbeds of tension of all kinds pose a serious threat to peace and international security, jeopardize the implementation of all projects for sustainable development and pose a dangerous threat to the promotion and protection of human rights. In that context, it is appropriate that the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly has opened under the banner of the theme, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. My delegation welcomes that choice, which is also in line with the theme of the previous session on mediation and reflects in a timely manner the concerns of the day and aspirations of our States. A year ago, speaking from this rostrum, I asserted the importance and necessity of mediation as an essential tool for the prevention and settlement of conflicts, a tool that has proved itself, not only in Africa but around the world. Having endured the horrors of armed conflict for years in the 1990s, the Congo chose the path of mediation and dialogue. Thanks to that commitment, my country has been able to overcome the sociopolitical upheavals of its recent history, and today, the peace that reigns throughout the country has cleared the way for the impetus needed to strengthen our democratic process and economic development. Two rounds of legislative elections were conducted in an atmosphere of calm on 15 July and 5 August, followed by the peaceful celebration on 15 August of the fifty-second anniversary of our independence in Kinkala, city seat of the Department of Pool, which had endured violence for a long time; those events serve as additional examples of positive developments. Strengthened by that experience, the Congo would like to voice its deep concern about the continuing crises threatening peace and security, regionally and internationally. For many years Africa has been the theatre of choice for conflict. Today a number of African countries — indeed, in some cases an entire region, like the Sahel — are still at the mercy of instability and increasingly complex crises. Several meetings dedicated to conflicts in Africa are listed on the agendas of high-level meetings during the General Assembly’s current session, which is unquestionably an indicator of instability in the world. However, we can agree that the conflicts and crises that have marked the African continent for the whole of its post-independence history have also enriched it with the experience of mediation initiatives and have mobilized efforts aimed at settling the conflicts by peaceful means. The Democratic Republic of the Congo is dealing with a serious crisis in the eastern part of the country, characterized by repeated violence that has resulted in an intolerable humanitarian tragedy produced by small armed groups of the Mouvement du 23 mars and other opposition forces. That situation is a serious threat to peace and security and to the integrity and development of our brother country. Furthermore, the political, security, socioeconomic and humanitarian consequences can be felt throughout the Great Lakes region. The heads of State and Government of the region, meeting at the International Conference on the Great Lakes region, are fully committed to seeking peaceful solutions. I would like to take this opportunity, as I did this morning, to commend again the initiative of Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon to organize a high-level meeting on 27 September on the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which will certainly provide a stimulus to the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region, supported by the African Union. The Congo, which is committed to that effort as a neighbour, a State member of the Conference and a member of the Peace and Security Council of the African Union, concurs with the conclusions of that important meeting, hoping to see them realized as soon as possible, so as to enable the Democratic Republic of the Congo to regain its stability and play the role expected of that great country. Our region will continue with its efforts to achieve the objectives we have sought and will use every mechanism we have to attain them. In December the Congo will host the thirty-fifth ministerial meeting of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, which will allow us to celebrate the twentieth anniversary of that General Assembly body and continue our cooperation on settling crises in the subregion. The collapse of democracy in Mali, which was once a fine example of democracy in Africa, represents a relapse that my country has condemned, while calling for a return to constitutional order. The deteriorating humanitarian situation, combined with the risk of spreading terrorism, calls for urgent implementation of the decisions of the Economic Community of West African States, together with the support of the African Union, the United Nations and the international community, so as to ensure that that dangerous precedent is not repeated anywhere else and that any impulses towards destabilizing and partitioning States by terrorist groups are quashed. My delegation can only welcome the positive developments in the political process established by the African Union in Somalia, which culminated in the election on 10 September of the new President of the Republic, Mr. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud. Many challenges remain, of course, particularly those of security, unification and reconciliation and establishing the rule of law, to name only a few. In that regard, we must support Somalia by helping that country to strengthen the gains of recent months, focusing everything we do on working within a global strategy for the reconstruction and development of the entire Somali territory and maintaining a coordinated, organized and coherent approach on the part of the international community, in support of the efforts of the African Union Mission in Somalia. Regarding the dispute between the young Republic of South Sudan and the Republic of the Sudan, my delegation urges both countries to demonstrate the necessary political will and to spare no effort to successfully and implement sign the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, as called for by the African Union in envisioning the existence of two viable States and a lasting peace. We support the African Union’s negotiations in Ethiopia on that issue. Outside the African continent, particularly with respect to the Middle East, the ongoing violence in certain countries continues to erode the prospects for peace in the region, not to mention the blocked peace process between Israel and Palestine, now deadlocked for several decades and, even worse, 10 years after the adoption of the Arab Peace Initiative. The Arab spring has apparently not bloomed there, to the detriment of the interests of a people who have the same right as any other to live in peace with its neighbours in a viable State. The Palestinian State has a rightful place in this body. The situation in Syria is particularly troubling, as speakers before me have emphasized. Faced with the risks of the general destabilization that that situation presents for the subregion and the world, we call for a coordinated and negotiated settlement that takes into consideration the interests of the various parties, so as to put an end to the escalating violence and serious violations of human rights. Regarding the nuclear issue, which represents a serious threat to humankind in general, it is essential that the nuclear-weapon States take responsibility, as they should, to implement specific measures that will enable progress towards genuine nuclear disarmament, while monitoring the ban on nuclear proliferation with regard to military purposes. We reaffirm the importance of respecting the three pillars of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, that is, nuclear disarmament, non-proliferation and the right of every State to develop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes under the supervision of the International Atomic Energy Agency. The development agenda of the United Nations is struggling to give sustainable support to our countries in their unceasing efforts to improve their economic development and their peoples’ well-being. The commitments made by industrialized countries at the major international conferences under the auspices of the United Nations have still not been met. The global economic and financial crisis continues to weaken the economies of developed as well as developing countries around the world. We are also concerned about the ongoing crisis in the euro zone and its effects, which are having a considerable impact on the achievement of social development objectives at the international level, including the Millennium Development Goals. Areas such as the fight against poverty, employment, education and health are affected by the crisis. In that light, my delegation reaffirms the responsibility and central role of the United Nations in forging the spirit of solidarity and cooperation that can enable the commitments made in the areas of aid and financing of development to be respected. Climate change remains a serious threat to the equilibrium of mankind. Sadly, we have to admit that we have not done enough to reverse its negative effects on the environment. It is therefore important to waste no more time and work to find solutions that will ensure a better future for coming generations. Along those lines, my delegation took an active part in June at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), a high-level exchange on the challenge of sustainable development. The President of the Congo, Denis Sassou Nguesso, brought Africa’s voice to the Conference, in his role as spokesperson for the continent. While we welcome the analysis and the reaffirmation of shared positions that the Conference yielded, my delegation remains concerned about the lack of real progress on the important issues of an institutional framework for sustainable development and for global environmental governance, as well as plans for their implementation. Although not all of Africa’s concerns were addressed, Africa’s common positions are nevertheless well represented in the Rio+20 final document (resolution 66/288, annex), thanks to the dogged perseverance and resolve of the African Group, which maintained unity and strove throughout the negotiation process to keep the African point of view in the fore. I want to take this opportunity here in New York to convey President Sassou Nguesso’s words of appreciation to the African Group and to extend his special thanks to the group of experts led by Kenya and its Permanent Representative. The sixty-seventh session of the Assembly is an important forum for a follow-up to Rio+20. I once again urge African delegates to speak with one voice in defending African interests in the vital matter of sustainable development. Especially important is the intergovernmental process for developing proposals for effective sustainable development financing strategies to mobilize resources and put them to effective use. I could well have raised many other issues, such as Security Council reform and the need for genuine global governance that takes into account people’s desire for multilateralism. But I will limit myself to a few words about certain concerns that should be taken into account. First is the need for global governance of political and security issues through the necessary reform of the Security Council. We also need to address global economic management by granting greater authority to the Economic and Social Council. Finally, there is the need for global environmental management through an international institution with real power to protect the environment and promote sustainable development. Our times demand the pursuit of those legitimate goals, shared by the majority of Member States of our world Organization. Its credibility and credit in the world will increase if we meet the challenge of global governance with a unified drive to create a more peaceful, prosperous and just world for the benefit of all.﻿Samoa commemorated the fiftieth anniversary of its independence this year, at home and abroad. The Headquarters of the United Nations was one of the venues, and for good reason. Our aspirations to be a sovereign State founded on democratic principles, Christian beliefs and our cultural values were ably facilitated by the United Nations. New Zealand, as the administering Power, was sympathetic and supportive, which hastened the attainment of our independence. Our people were given the choice to decide the future of our country. The United Nations and the administering Power supported the process and paved the way. As we also heard from the President of the United States, people everywhere must ultimately long for the freedom to determine their destiny. Half a century later, there still remain territories today, even in our Pacific region, where people have not been able to exercise their right to self-determination. In the case of French Polynesia, we encourage the metropolitan Power and the territory’s leadership, with the support of the United Nations, to find an amicable way to exercise the right of the people of the territory to determine their future. The outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (resolution 66/288, annex) provides a blueprint for the future we want. It is a future we all signed on to, a partnership of shared responsibilities, commitments and undertakings among all Members, big and small. For all the goals to be achieved, every country must deliver on its pledges in good faith and not try to negotiate a way out. For Samoa, the gains include the reaffirmation that small island developing States (SIDS) are a special case in the area of sustainable development, owing to their unique and particular vulnerabilities. But acknowledging the vulnerabilities of SIDS without the attendant resources for strengthening their resilience makes that achievement only a hollow victory. The oceans and seas are resources that most members of our group have access to. The call to conserve and harness the marine biodiversity beyond national jurisdictions, including taking a decision on developing an international instrument under the Convention on the Law of the Sea, is a major achievement, worthy of support. The decision to hold a SIDS review meeting in 2014 is important and timely. Samoa’s offer to host that meeting is a matter of record. Coincidentally, 2014 holds special significance for our country. Barring any natural catastrophes, we will graduate from the category of least-developed countries (LDCs) on 1 January of that year. That was one of the motives for our bid to host the SIDS review meeting. We want to underscore that, through genuine partnerships with development partners, our small island developing State, which is also an LDC, has been able to markedly raise our country’s socioeconomic situation and our people’s standard of living. It is important that every Member State be afforded the opportunity to host United Nations meetings, and the success of meetings should be measured on the quality of the decisions and commitments agreed to, not merely on considerations of costs and numbers of participants. The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are not merely aspirations of what might be, but tangible outcomes of what should be. By their very nature, they are a restatement of our peoples’ development needs and hopes. Thus for us, the achievement of the MDGs by 2015 is not just a matter of pride but one of necessity, and we will continue to do everything possible to bring about the desired result. Success would also mean that we would start the post-2015 sustainable development goals framework at higher thresholds, which would help spur greater effort to improve the lives of more and more of our people. The sustainable development goals that will succeed the MDGs are already a major focus of attention in some quarters. From Samoa’s perspective, clear, time-bound, targeted and measurable global benchmarks are critical. We must ensure that the post-2015 development agenda builds on the important progress made in the MDG process and is expanded to cover broader sustainable development issues, as agreed on in Rio. We must also ensure that the important priorities identified in the outcomes of the 2014 SIDS meeting are integrated into the post-2015 global development frameworks and comprehensively addressed in order to respond to the needs of SIDS. Climate change is the world’s most urgent problem, requiring a decisive global response. It is a challenge that should unite and not divide us. Entrenched positions that ignore today’s realities and pursue unrelated agendas have no role in our collective effort. All countries are affected to varying degrees by climate change. No one should be detached or unconcerned about our common plight. We must work together, with a sense of urgency and commitment, to address climate change — today, not tomorrow. It should not be only science that recommends what we should do, but also our consciences and the political will to follow through. We clearly want leaders who view the world as a single constituency where everyone works together within the limits of their capacity and capability to be part of the total solution. The climate change negotiating process has been a long and frustrating journey, especially for small island developing States, which contribute the least to the causes of climate change yet stand to suffer the most, and are least able to effectively adapt to its adverse impacts. Climate change cannot be wished away. Even those countries that have been in denial to date must surely now accept the weight of scientific evidence. Climate change, facilitated largely through human activity, poses one of the gravest threats to humankind and to the continuation of life in our world as we know it today. Samoa’s unwavering support for United Nations peacekeeping work is underscored by its 12 years of uninterrupted police deployment in service of missions in Liberia, the Sudan, Timor-Leste and South Sudan. Our commitment is rooted in our firm belief in the role that United Nations peacekeeping plays in helping to eliminate the causes of conflict and in bringing about peace and stability. A peaceful environment helps to improve the lives of those who have been affected by conflict and, ultimately, to achieve our common goal of peaceful coexistence for our peoples and nations. We are determined to gradually increase over time the level and number of our officers in peacekeeping duties. Regionally owned and coordinated solutions to regional upheavals can be quite effective and successful. The Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands, under the umbrella of the Pacific Islands Forum, demonstrates the effectiveness of that approach very well, and Samoa will continue to provide strong support to regionally owned solutions when required. Samoa reaffirms its unequivocal condemnation of terrorism in all its forms. Our continuing determination to work with other Member States to fight terrorism using all possible means is consistent with human rights and the rule of law. The horror of terrorist atrocities is a common and almost daily occurrence. Terrorist acts committed under whatever pretext or purpose are deplorable and morally unjustified. In its various forms and manifestations, terrorism is responsible for the permanent scars of horror and fear that have gripped international attention in recent years. Those attacks have underlined the fact that when terrorists are able to infiltrate national borders, no peoples or countries will ever be immune to the threat of terrorist violence. So many innocent lives have been lost indiscriminately and unceremoniously. More than ever, terrorism is a major threat that must be confronted by a collective international response at the national, regional and international levels. It must be condemned in the strongest terms possible in order to send out an unequivocal message that it is neither accepted nor condoned and that perpetrators should not expect any sympathy for their actions. The tragic events in Benghazi recall and underscore the importance of all nations working together, including through the United Nations, to implement practical and effective measures to provide for the protection, security and safety of diplomatic and consular missions and representatives worldwide. Samoa will continue to work with like-minded countries towards that goal. Samoa’s membership of the United Nations is grounded on the promise of the hope, equality and justice that the United Nations offers its Member States, irrespective of their economic, political or military strength. States in leadership positions and those aspiring to that status must lead responsibly and by example. Every Member State, irrespective of its size or strength, should be able to contribute appropriately to decisions and actions of the United Nations in order to make our Organization an agent of change during challenging times. The United Nations continues to play an important role in our collective effort to achieve its objectives, whether in the areas of peace and security, the environment, poverty alleviation, the fight against terrorism and many other challenges that threaten our world. This week, at the treaty event, I deposited Samoa’s instrument of ratification for the Kampala amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. We ratified those amendments because we place great faith in the rule of law and the vital protection that the law offers to all States, especially to the weak and small. Lately, serious disputes have arisen among bordering States, with the potential to escalate into confrontation with far-reaching consequences. We would encourage the parties concerned to resolve their differences through appropriate peaceful settlement arrangements. Clearly, Member States can do only so much. We need a committed Secretariat that is aware and sensitive to the needs of the peoples it exists to serve. That is why Samoa supports the Secretary-General’s vision to create a flexible and mobile professional career service to allow for quick and positive responses to the diverse demands of Member States. The need for the United Nations to deliver as one entity cannot be overemphasized. It adds value and quality to the process, eliminates waste, minimizes duplication, and ensures that the scarce resources entrusted to its care are used optimally to supplement Member States’ hard- earned contributions. The United Nations remains the only viable institution that draws all the nations of our world together. The need to revitalize the General Assembly and reform the Security Council has been obvious for many years. In the case of the Security Council, as long as its composition and rules ignore today’s global realities, it will continue to struggle for legitimacy and strain to effectively carry out its intended tasks, as has been witnessed over many years. Samoa remains firm in its position that the permanent and non-permanent membership categories of the Security Council should be expanded. Member States with appropriate credentials and the disposition to contribute to the Council’s work and resources should be encouraged to apply for membership of that important organ of our Organization. Importantly, the intergovernmental process should continue in earnest during the current session to bring finality to an issue that has taxed Member States’ patience and endurance for over a decade and a half. If the United Nations is to be truly reformed, we also need a strengthened and revitalized General Assembly as the primary policy and decision-making organ of the Organization. Moreover, we encourage the efforts under way to streamline the work of the different United Nations agencies to eliminate the wasting of resources and unnecessary duplication of time and effort. We often congregate around points of commonality, finding legitimacy and safety in numbers. It is diversity, however, that has historically ensured human adaptability, resilience and true dynamism. Our own Pacific region is going through a process of maturity, where subregionalism is evolving and the uniqueness of capacity and comparative advantages are coming to the fore. The same can be said of our United Nations family and its dynamic leadership. Diversity can create a platform for collective progress if, in the words of President Obama, “we ensure that we are strengthened by our differences, not defined by them”. As we heard from other leaders, including the Secretary-General and the President of the United States, it is of critical importance that the Palestinians be allowed to realize their right to a viable State of their own, existing alongside a secure and safe Jewish State of Israel. That has also been and continues to be Samoa’s long-standing position on the issue. We remain hopeful that current efforts to secure a peaceful, durable and fair settlement in the Middle East will be successful. All efforts towards that goal rekindle hope and should be supported. A peace deal is central to providing conditions conducive to the achievement of a two-State solution. We wish the President well as he leads the work of our General Assembly. We also wish to place on record our appreciation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for the leadership he brings to the work of our Organization, and to wish him success in the discharge of his key responsibilities in the challenging times ahead.﻿I wish to begin by extending my appreciation to the heads of all the delegations who in their statements to the Assembly stressed the urgency of progress towards the realization of a just peace in our region, one which would allow the Palestinian people to enjoy their inalienable national rights. Developments over the past year have confirmed what we have persistently drawn attention to and warned of: the catastrophic danger of racist settlers moving into our country. During the past months, attacks by terrorist militias of Israeli settlers have become a daily reality, with at least 535 attacks since the beginning of the year. We are facing relentless waves of attacks against our people, our mosques, our churches and monasteries, and our homes and schools. They are unleashing their venom against our trees, fields, crops and properties, and our people have become fixed targets for acts of killing and torture, with the complete collusion of the occupying forces and the Israeli Government. The escalation of settler attacks should not surprise anyone, for it is the inherent byproduct of the continuation of the occupation and a Government policy that deliberately fosters the settlements and settlers and deems their satisfaction to be an absolute priority. And it is the inherent byproduct of the racist climate fuelled by a culture of incitement in Israeli curriculums and extremist declarations and fatwas, which are rife with hatred and are rooted in a series of discriminatory laws created and enacted over the years against the Palestinian people by the Israeli security apparatus and courts. Those entities provide excuse after excuse for the settlers’ crimes and for their accelerated release should one of them happen to be arrested. Official and military commissions of inquiry fabricate justifications for soldiers who have committed what are clearly considered war crimes and have perpetrated acts of murder, torture and abuse of peaceful Palestinian civilians. Over the past year, since the convening of the General Assembly’s previous session, the occupying Power has persisted with its settlement campaign, focusing on Jerusalem and its environs. It is a campaign clearly and deliberately aimed at altering the city’s historic character and the glorious image of the Holy City as etched in the minds of humankind. It is a campaign of ethnic cleansing against the Palestinian people of Jerusalem via the demolition of their homes and prevention of their reconstruction, the revocation of residency rights, the denial of basic services, especially with regard to the construction of schools, the closure of institutions and the impoverishment of Jerusalem’s community via a siege behind walls and checkpoints. That chokes the City and prevents millions of Palestinians from freely accessing its mosques, churches, schools, hospitals and markets. The occupying Power has also continued its construction and expansion of settlements in different areas throughout the West Bank and has continued its suffocating blockade, as well as raids and attacks against our people in the Gaza Strip, who to this day suffer from the disastrous impact of the destructive war of aggression committed against them a few years ago. Nearly 5,000 Palestinians remain captive as prisoners and detainees of conscious in Israel’s jails. In that regard, we call upon the international community to compel the Government of Israel to respect the Geneva Conventions of 1949 and to investigate the conditions of detention of Palestinian prisoners and detainees, and we stress the need for their release. They are soldiers in their people’s struggle for freedom, independence and peace. At the same time, the occupying Power continues to tighten the siege and impose severe restrictions on movement, preventing the Palestinian Authority from implementing vital infrastructure projects and providing services to its citizens, who are also being prevented from cultivating their land and deprived of water for irrigation. The occupying Power is also obstructing the establishment of agricultural, industrial, tourism and housing projects by the Palestinian private sector in vast areas of the occupied Palestinian territory, which are classified as areas subject to the absolute control of the occupation, areas that encompasses approximately 60 per cent of the West Bank. The occupying Power continues to deliberately demolish what the Palestinian Authority is building — projects funded by donor brethren and friends — and is destroying the Authority’s building projects involving roads, simple homes for its citizens and agricultural facilities. In fact, over the past 12 months, the Israeli occupying forces demolished 510 Palestinian structures in those areas and displaced 770 Palestinians from their homes. Those measures have caused great damage to our economy and impeded our development programmes and private-sector activity. They compound the socioeconomic difficulties of our people under occupation, a fact confirmed by international financial institutions. Israel’s overall policy is ultimately leading to the weakening of the Palestinian Authority, undermining its ability to carry out its functions and projects and to implement its obligations. This threatens to undermine its very existence or cause its collapse. All of that is taking place in the context of an Israeli political discourse that does not hesitate to brandish aggressive, extremist positions. In many aspects and in their practical application on the ground, they incite religious conflict. That is something we firmly reject, based on our principles and convictions and due to our understanding of what it means to fuel such fires in this sensitive area, which is full of explosive f lashpoints, and how that can fuel the action of extremists from various quarters, especially those trying to use tolerant, monotheistic religions as an ideological justification for their terrorism. For our part, as proof of our seriousness and our sincere intention to create an opening in this impasse, we conducted exploratory talks with the Israeli Government at the beginning of the year, at the initiative of the brotherly Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. We have also encouraged the expressed desires of several countries to contribute to efforts to break the cycle of deadlock and have ourselves undertaken initiatives to create favourable conditions for the resumption of negotiations. Unfortunately, however, the result of all those initiatives has been very negative. There can be only one reading of the Israeli Government’s actions and practices in our homeland and of the positions it has presented to us regarding the substance of a final status agreement to end the conflict and achieve peace: that the Israeli Government rejects the two-State solution. The two-State solution — namely, the State of Palestine coexisting alongside the State of Israel — represents the spirit and essence of the historic compromise embodied in the Declaration of Principles, which was agreed to in Oslo and was signed, 19 years ago, by the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of Israel under the auspices of the United States of America and on the White House lawn. It is a compromise by which, for the sake of making peace, the Palestinian people accepted to establish their State on only 22 per cent of the territory of historic Palestine. Recent years have actually witnessed a systematic acceleration and intensification of Israeli measures aimed at gutting the Oslo Accords of their meaning, while simultaneously building facts on the ground in the occupied Palestinian territory that are making the implementation of the Accords extremely difficult, if not completely impossible. The Israeli Government aims to continue its occupation of East Jerusalem, to de facto annex large areas of the rest of the occupied Palestinian territory and to continue occupying a large portion of the territory under different designations. It refuses to engage in any serious discussion of the issue of the Palestinian refugees. It wants to continue its occupation of Palestinian aquafers and its control over the most fertile agricultural areas in our land, as well as over our air, skies,water, borders and our life in its entirety. The final map and borders that can be drawn in accordance with Israel’s official positions reveal to us small Palestinian enclaves surrounded by large Israeli settlement blocs and walls and checkpoints, and vast security zones and roads reserved for settlers. The enclaves would therefore remain subject to the full dominance of military and settler occupation, only packaged under new names, such as the unilateral plan for a so-called State with provisional borders. I repeat — a State with provisional borders. That is a project that we categorically reject from A to Z because it will not bring about peace. Israel refuses to end the occupation and refuses to allow the Palestinian people to attain their freedom and independence. It rejects the establishment of the State of Palestine. Israel is promising the Palestinian people a new catastrophe — a new Naqba — a new setback. I speak on behalf of an angry people who feel that while they demand their right to freedom, adopt a culture of peace and adhere to the principles and rules of international law and resolutions of international legitimacy, rewards continue to be illogically bestowed upon Israel, whose Government pursues a policy of war, occupation and settler occupation. Israel continues to be permitted to enjoy impunity, and some continue to obstruct the adoption of a decisive position regarding its violations of international law and covenants. That represents a licence for the occupation to continue its policy of dispossession and ethnic cleansing and encourages it to entrench its system of apartheid against the Palestinian people. Despite our genuine feelings of anger, we — in the name of the Palestine Liberation Organization, the sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people — will not allow our country to be divided in two. We are the sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people. I reaffirm without hesitation that we are as committed — equally and by the same measures — to peace and international legitimacy and its covenants and resolutions as we are to upholding our inalienable national rights and aspirations. And we reaffirm that we are committed to non-violence and reject terrorism in all its forms, particularly State terrorism. Despite our disappointment, we continue to sincerely extend a hand to the Israeli people to make peace. We realize that ultimately the two peoples must live and coexist, each in their respective State, in the Holy Land. Furthermore, we realize that progress towards making peace can be achieved through negotiations between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel. Despite all the complexities of the prevailing reality and all the frustrations that abound, we say before the international community that there is still a chance — maybe the last — to save the two-State solution and to salvage peace. However, this urgent task must be pursued via a new approach. Whoever rushes to advise us to repeat an experience that has proven to be futile, such as negotiations with the Israeli Government without clear terms of reference, must understand that this will result in the reproduction of failure and again provide cover for consecrating the occupation and will deal the final blow to an already dying peace process. Whoever advises us to wait must realize that the hotbeds of tension and the festering situation in our country and our region have their own timing and cannot withstand further procrastination and delay, nor are they amenable to being relegated to the bottom of the global agenda. The approach required for salvaging the chance for peace must, first and foremost, be predicated on the understanding that the racist settler occupation must be condemned, punished and boycotted so that it is completely halted and eliminated. That approach also requires a reaffirmation of, and adherence to, the terms of reference and the foundations of the solution to the conflict, which have been endorsed by all here. We do not need to belabour the core components of a just solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. Rather, what is needed is the will to implement those components. Marathon negotiations are not required to define them, rather it is the genuine and sincere intention to reach peace that is needed. Those components are by no means a mysterious puzzle or intractable riddle; they are the clearest and best-known secrets in the world. They include, in brief, the establishment of an independent State of Palestine, with East Jerusalem as its capital, over the entire territory occupied by Israel since 1967, and the realization of a just, agreed solution to the Palestine refugee issue, in accordance with resolution 194 (III), as prescribed in the Arab Peace Initiative. The fundamental components of the solution to the conflict exist in the documents and resolutions of the United Nations. Member States already have them. The components of the solution are also endorsed in resolutions of regional organizations, beginning with the League of Arab States, the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, the Non-Aligned Movement and the African Union. They can also be found in the statements of the European Union and the international Quartet. However, what is the use of all those terms of reference if Israel continues to refuse, and is encouraged by others to continue to oppose the terms of reference? The international community, embodied in the United Nations, is required now more than ever to uphold its responsibilities. The Security Council is called upon to urgently adopt a resolution comprising the pillars and foundations for a solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict that would serve as a binding term of reference and guide for all if the vision of two States, Israel and Palestine, is to survive and if peace is to prevail in the land of peace — the birthplace of Jesus, peace be upon him, the ascension of the Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, and the final resting place of Abraham, peace be upon him — Palestine, the land of the three monotheistic religions. All things considered, the establishment of a free and independent State of Palestine is a sacred right of the Palestinian people and an entitlement that must be realized, for it has been overdue for too many decades. It is not a grant to be bestowed upon us by anyone. It is a right, and the Palestinian people are entitled to that right. At the same time, the Palestinian Authority has affirmed, through the implementation of its State institution-building programmes, the ability to create an advanced model for an effective, modern State through the development of the performance of its institutions and public finance management and through the adoption of standards for transparency, strict accountability and rules of good governance. Those achievements have been deemed by the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee for the Coordination of the International Assistance to Palestinians, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to constitute an impressive undertaking and success story. Those achievements were again commended in the latest report just a few days ago, which confirmed the Palestinian Authority’s total readiness for the transition to an independent State while at the same time stressing that the Israeli occupation remained the only obstacle to the realization of the State of Palestine. During the previous session of the General Assembly, we submitted our application for consideration by the Security Council to allow the State of Palestine to assume its rightful place among the community of nations as a full Member of the United Nations. A major and hostile uproar was raised by some against that political, diplomatic, peaceful step par excellence aimed at saving the peace process by asserting its principles and foundation. Despite the fact that the overwhelming majority of the countries of the world supported, and continues to support, our application, our endeavour was aborted. I do not see even a single reason for opposing that request. Yet when the countries of the world had the opportunity to declare their stance without any restrictions or veto during the previous autumn, they voted, despite enormous pressure, in strong support of the acceptance of Palestine as a member State of UNESCO. A year has passed, and Palestine, the homeland of Mahmoud Darwish and Edward Said, is playing its role in UNESCO with a high level of responsibility and professionalism. Palestine is committed to international conventions and is cooperating with all member States in order to advance the objectives of the organization and providing a model of what its positive, constructive contribution in international organizations would be. In order to enhance the chances for peace, we will continue our efforts to obtain full membership for Palestine at the United Nations. For the same reason, we have begun intensive consultations with various regional organizations and Member States aimed at the General Assembly’s adoption during this session of a draft resolution considering the State of Palestine as a non-member State of the United Nations. We are confident that the vast majority of the countries of the world support our efforts to bolster the chances for a just peace. In our efforts we do not seek to delegitimize an existing State, that is, Israel; but rather to establish the State that must be realized, that is, Palestine. We are not trying to delegitimize them; they are trying to delegitimize us. More than 64 years have passed since Al-Nakba and a large number of those who were its immediate victims and witnessed its horrors have died. They died with memories, preserved in their minds and hearts, of their beautiful world that was devastated, their warm homes that were demolished and their peaceful villages that were erased from existence, and of the renaissance that was undermined, and their loved ones, dear men, women and children, who were killed in wars, massacres, attacks, raids and incursions, and of their beautiful country that was a beacon of coexistence, tolerance, progress and a crossroads of civilization. They died displaced and in refugee camps to which they were expelled following their uprooting from their homeland, as they awaited the moment in which they would resume their suspended lives, complete their interrupted journey and repair their shattered dreams. They died while they clung to their legitimate human right to justice, freedom and redress for the historically unprecedented injustice inf licted upon them. Has the time not come to undo that injustice? At present, 77 per cent of the Palestinian people are under the age of 35. Although they did not experience the horrors of Al-Nakba, they know very well all its horrendous details from the accounts of their parents and grandparents who endured it. They continue to suffer from its ongoing effects today and every day as a result of the practices of the occupation and of the settlers on a land that is diminishing in size. The horizon before them is closed to their simple, ordinary dreams. They see their homeland and their present and future vulnerable to continued usurpation and they say firmly: we shall not allow a new Al-Nakba to happen. I say to the Assembly that the brave Palestinian people will not allow themselves to be the victims of a new Al-Nakba. We will not allow that. We will stay on our land. My people will continue their epic steadfastness and eternal survival journey in their beloved land, every inch of which carries evidence and landmarks affirming their roots and unique connection to the land throughout ancient history. There is no homeland for us except Palestine and there is no land for us but Palestine. We shall not accept an alternative homeland, nor an alternative land. Palestine is our homeland and shall remain our homeland. Our people will continue to build the institutions of their State and strive to achieve national reconciliation to restore the unity of our nation, people and institutions via resorting to the ballot box, which will confirm our people’s pluralistic democratic choice. Our people are also determined to continue peaceful popular resistance, consistent with international humanitarian law, against the occupation, against the settlements and for the sake of freedom, independence and peace. Let us prevent the occurrence of a new Al-Nakba in the Holy Land. Let us support the realization of a free, independent State of Palestine now. Let peace be victorious before it is too late.﻿Last year, Mongolia observed the fiftieth anniversary of its joining this important body. Thanks to the choice of our free people, this son of a herder is here today, happy to report on Mongolia’s progress in building a strong and free society. More than 20 years ago, Mongolia stood at a crossroads. The f lag of democracy was firmly planted in our rich and historic soil when, in the cold winter of 1989 and in the spring of the White Horse Year of 1990, decades of rule without the consent of the governed were swept aside. Individual rights and liberties prevailed. Our revolution did not break a single window, and not one drop of blood was shed. More than two decades later, Mongolia is a stable beacon of self-governance, a moving force behind the Asian Partnership Initiative for Democracy and the current President of the Community of Democracies. We are proud to chair that world movement for freedom. Mongolia has demonstrated a firm commitment to transparency, accountability and the rule of law. We have recognized that that is the only way that our democracy can succeed. Therefore, we cannot tolerate public corruption at any level, from the highest officials to the ordinary citizen. Corruption is like an infectious disease, growing in the dark, eating away at the public trust, scaring away investors, robbing average citizens of opportunities and attacking the vital immune system of a nation. We must shine a light on corruption and attack it head-on. Additionally, our track record of free and fair elections and the peaceful transfer of power from one party to another can serve as an example to our sister democracies around the world. Mongolia is moving towards more direct and participatory democracy. We are empowering our people, not the Government. Mongolia is proud to be the democratic anchor in the East. No democracy is ever perfect. We have experienced challenges similar to those experienced by other young democracies. Democracy does not end with the casting of a ballot. That is just the beginning. Mongolia is uniquely situated on many levels, democratically, economically and geographically. Our drive for democracy, transparency and hope for peace makes our nation a vital regional player. Economically, we are blessed by extraordinary growth — nearly 17 per cent last year. Keeping up with our high rate of growth is a very real challenge and one that we are prepared to meet directly. We are very focused on balancing two goals — first, sharing the opportunities created by our economic success with all Mongolians, and secondly, demonstrating clearly and firmly that Mongolia is open for business and a fully engaged member of the international community. Our nation’s needs are significant — improved infrastructure, better health care and world-class education. We have much to do to meet the immediate and long-term needs of our people. Our people are the key to our success. We need to invest in their future. We need to invest in both social and economic infrastructure. We are committed to making the investments needed to give our children the bright futures they deserve. As an emerging leader of the global community, Mongolia also has important international priorities. None is more important than protecting our environment. All nations must work to preserve our planet as our economies expand and mature. I was honoured and humbled to be recognized by the United Nations Environmental Programme this year for the work we are doing in Mongolia to preserve our precious environment. We are committed to doing even more. Another priority for Mongolia is expanding human rights. Mongolia has established an effective moratorium on capital punishment. We are seeking to permanently abolish the death penalty in Mongolia by legislative action very soon. A Government is created by its people; therefore no Government has the right to take the life of those who have created it. Let me be clear: capital punishment is ineffective and barbaric. Mongolia cares deeply about safeguarding global peace. We must preserve our planet by eliminating nuclear weapons across the world. We are also firmly opposed to storing nuclear waste on Mongolian soil. We are celebrating 20 years of enjoying nuclear- weapon-free status. I am grateful that on 17 September, the five permanent members of the Security Council — the People’s Republic of China, France, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the United States — signed a joint declaration reaffirming that status for Mongolia. The dialogue on Mongolia and its nuclear- weapon-free zone, which was initiated and has been led by Mongolia, has continued to make progress. We will host an event in 2015 to make even further progress. While nuclear power may remain a viable energy option for some, any nuclear energy programme in development must submit to the permanent supervision of the United Nations and the International Atomic Energy Agency. Any nation seeking to build nuclear power must not endanger the peace and security of its independent neighbours. The solution to those challenges is engagement, not isolation. The solution is more diplomacy, more dialogue and more action. Now more than ever, it is clear that words alone are not enough. We must be united in taking action to preserve peace. That goal is even more imperative in light of the conflicts that have grown ever more tense in areas such as the Middle East. I was saddened by the death of the United States Ambassador and others in Libya. The mission of diplomacy is peaceful. Attacks on diplomatic compounds violate both the letter and spirit of international law. Today, I join with Mongolia’s allies in condemning the needless violence and bloodshed in Syria. Last year I urged action. The protest had started peacefully, but was met with violence from the Syrian Government. Each day, each hour and, indeed, each minute, the situation grows worse. In dealing with crises such as that in Syria, we must remember that those dying are not just citizens of that nation. They are also citizens of our planet. They are therefore also our brothers and sisters. The world should be unified and direct in bringing the bloodshed to an end before another life is needlessly lost. Young girls and boys should be in school, studying for their future, building their dreams. Young girls and boys, as well as their mothers and fathers, should not be dying in the streets and living through nightmares. That crisis is not just a subject for television programmes. We Members of the United Nations are not spectators. The Organization was not created merely to watch a show unfold on our televisions. We have to act. We have to move. Too many mothers suffer when their children struggle, whether it is for a lack of human rights or economic opportunity. Mothers want their children to be free. They want their children to have a job. They want a better life for their children. My 92-year-old- mother reminds me daily to serve all people with respect, especially women, children and the elderly. Women are the backbone of the family and the bedrock of a nation. They bring life into the world. They sense the cries of an infant. Their instincts are to care for the old, the sick and those in need. Our mothers, sisters and daughters share a core value of caring for others. We need more women leaders. Women tend to see the whole picture. For society to advance, we need more women in public service at all levels, local to global. They bring a unique perspective that is often missing in global challenges. Has anyone ever heard of a female bloody dictator or tyrant? I think not. If there were more women in power, I think we would have more harmony, more engagement, less suffering and less conflict. I am proud to report that in our last elections, we tripled the number of women in Parliament. The way to empower women is to ensure that girls share the same educational opportunities as boys. Education is the most basic human right. It is the fundamental building block for human development and free society. We owe our children — all of them — the opportunities that a strong education can offer. Instead of weapons, we should invest more in education, which unlocks the potential of every child. The return on such investment will be higher, both for the young men and women of tomorrow and for the world. Educated nations are more secure economically, respect human rights and have greater political freedom. In conclusion, I am happy to report Mongolia’s incredible forward movement and to renew our commitment as a part of the community of nations. We accept both the rights and responsibilities that come with that honour. Eight hundred and fifty years ago, our great king, Chinggis Khan, was born. He built the largest land empire in the history of the world. Yet that great king did not erect a single statute to himself. Chinggis Khan famously noted, “It was easier to conquer the world on horseback than to dismount and try to govern.” Let us be frank. It is not easy to be a diplomat in a troubled world. It is not easy to fight for equal opportunity for all. It is not easy to shine a light on corruption. It is not easy to govern by the rule of law. It is not easy to build real democracy. It is easier to build statues. It is easier to destroy. It is hard to govern well. But we all must dismount and govern, and govern well. That is vital in order to build a world where our children feel safer, a world where our families are stronger, a world where all nations can prosper. That is the legacy that real leaders need to build — not statues, but opportunities for all humankind. Let us, together, build opportunities for all.﻿On behalf of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, I would like to congratulate my friend Ambassador Vuk Jeremić on his election to preside over the work of the General Assembly during its sixty-seventh session. His experience, competence and reliability will be crucial in ensuring that the most representative body of the United Nations effectively fulfils its duties. We assure him of the full support of Uruguay. The focus of the General Assembly this year on the promotion of the rule of law at national and international levels is extremely relevant, and I take this opportunity to welcome the declaration adopted by the General Assembly on Monday on that matter (resolution 67/1). Respect for and promotion of the rule of law at the national and international levels are two sides of the same coin, which has the well-being of the individual as its raison d’étre. It means also that neither individuals nor States are above the law, but are subject to it. Uruguay considers rule of law a constitutive element of the social contract that sustains its democratic system and that stands out as a pillar of its foreign policy. It is important to stress that this was not motivated by foreign influence, nor did it come through the adoption of an abstract political model from outside. Rather, it was the result of a profound internal process of building and organizing the free coexistence of our people. The principle of juridical equality of States, like equality among individual people, is one of the fundamental principles of our Organization, guaranteeing to all the same right to participate in the responsibilities of the international community, independent of the power possessed by each nation. It is precisely in respect of this principle that our country rejects any coercive unilateral or extraterritorial measure that contravenes the rules of international law and the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. The clearest contemporary example of such a measure is the embargo unfairly set against the Republic of Cuba. The principle of the self-determination of peoples — understood as a collective right that must be observed in a manner analogous to respect for freedom of the individual at the domestic level — is also an essential pillar of the rule of law. That freedom, which includes freedom of expression and other fundamental freedoms, is closely related to the effective operation of democratic institutions. In that respect, and without prejudice to reaffirming that any attempt at the partial or total disruption of the national unity or territorial integrity of a country is incompatible with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, Uruguay has always defended the right to self-determination of peoples as a key principle for the international coexistence of States. It reiterates its desire for a peaceful, just, sustainable and mutually accepted solution of the question of Western Sahara, based on international law and resolutions of the General Assembly and Security Council and respectful of the human rights and the will of the Saharan people. An independent judicial system, to which all persons have access on the basis of the principle of equality before the law, is necessary for the genuine rule of law. Projecting this concept of the State and of the law beyond our borders is a vocation for peace and the peaceful settlement of disputes, of which my country was an early promoter. My country showed its firm commitment to those values and principles already at the Hague Conference of 1907, where it tried to introduce compulsory international arbitration, and also in 1921, when it became the first country to legally accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the Permanent Court of International Justice, under only the condition of reciprocity. The strenuous efforts of the international community to build a fair system and to achieve greater balance among countries and greater well-being for their societies have not yet achieved the necessary ethical and policy solutions. Recently we have seen what appears to be an era of change in some regions of the world. Peoples are seeking their freedom with the means they have at hand, with a legitimate desire to achieve democracy and greater well-being. Political actions of peoples seeking new alternatives of power have come up against those who are better organized politically and who thus will prevail, as they have always prevailed. Those who have now assumed power must be aware of their responsibilities towards those peoples. Eradicating tyranny, consolidating peace and making social benefits available to everyone are enormous challenges. The task is to build real democracies, and to build them with all of the contradictions, differences and difficulties that exist within a society. Even in our region we have received threats with a major ideological component. The attempted coup d’état in Ecuador and the breakdown of the democratic order in Paraguay have shown that Governments of change have been affected in the development of their policies. The rule of law and democracy are not acquired values; rather, they must be defended each day as precious goods. Recent events such as what happened in Paraguay demonstrate that the rule of law is still threatened and that despite progress in terms of democratic institutions in all our nations, threats to the full exercise of fundamental rights and democratic values persist. That represents a great challenge to our aspiration to strengthen the integration and development of our countries, making the defence of the rule of law and the democratic order a necessary and unavoidable condition. Despite the great changes that have afflicted humanity, the international system continues to work hard, yet it does not resolve the problems, or resolves them unfairly. It has been unable to create equal financial or commercial opportunities. Even today, it is not a priority to invest in countries’ human resources according to their specific needs. The political system has acted to control or decide political destinies, rather than to ensure the security or well-being of the people. Those who suffered before are suffering now. Powerful countries still threaten or intervene in other countries. We have written about values and principles and have incorporated them in our constitutions. We have preached in many ways about what is good for everyone. But we have not succeeded in meeting the basic needs of billions of poor people, nor have we guaranteed them programmes for health, education, housing or employment. The basis of social justice has not changed. It is peace, it is freedom, because without that we cannot be actively aware of noble causes that require that one not be dominated or oppressed — and without that, there is nothing. It is dignified housing that protects a family, work with dignity at a fair wage, the right to education and the responsibility of each individual. It is the health care that can save the 7 million children under 5 years of age who die each year around the world and that cares for the elderly, for women and for the destitute. What is truly revolutionary is to change the conditions of life for those who cannot fully enjoy their rights, because our political ideal must be, essentially, the human dimension. The solution requires that the system provide each person the greatest guarantees of his political rights and that it be fair with regard to the obligations and responsibilities in that respect. The greatest freedom implies the greatest responsibility. Each person, as both an individual and part of the community, must receive, possess and enjoy the rights that are fundamental to ensuring the well-being of all as a way to transform solutions into reality. The struggle for transformation determines the struggle of each person to find a solution for his problems. Resolving the issues inherent in poverty, lack of freedom or impediments to the enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights requires concrete, urgent and immediate action. Almost 200 years ago, someone declared that the most unfortunate would be the most privileged. His thinking was truly revolutionary, but there was something in it even more revolutionary, because he took on the task of orchestrating and executing the changes that would provoke the redistribution of resources. He took his solutions to the most needy: widows with children, children, and poor blacks, zambos and creoles. Development requires change. The present day has given us, as a fundamental condition of our projects, insoluble problems such as poverty, malnutrition, overcrowding, unemployment, child mortality and other socioeconomic scourges that still afflict most of humanity. Therefore, this system requires a change, and the only way to carry it out is to transform reality. Our responsibilities as a community of nations cannot be avoided, as some of those problems occur as a natural result of the conditions and characteristics of relations among States. The international context tends to concentrate wealth, efficiency and competitiveness and has no mechanisms to redistribute the resources in a fair and efficient manner that would provide a roof to every homeless person, a plate of food to every hungry person or break the chains of the oppressed. The international system is based on the struggle of national interests for a more powerful position, and that means that the concentration of power becomes ever greater. Everyone is aware that countries such as ours operate within highly competitive international markets, that we do not determine prices, that commodity prices f luctuate thus altering our national export matrix, and that we are exposed to successive financial crises. Continuing with this line of thought, it is essential to prioritize Uruguay’s involvement in the international community, integrating international aspects of the country’s issues in the areas of agriculture, industry, commercialization and financing, all with the purpose of eliminating poverty, achieving social justice and firmly establishing primary education. Among other things, this requires reducing or eliminating the distortions that pose obstacles to commercial exchange, particularly agriculture subsidies, internal supports and other protectionist measures that prevent international trade from becoming a factor that contributes to solving the financial crisis that is currently affecting the global economy. Economic and social development requires the stability and predictability that the rule of law ensures. The United Nations has grasped that reality, and it is encouraging to see that strengthening the rule of law, and the institutions whose job it is to implement that rule of law, is central to the tasks of the Organization’s various peacekeeping, peacebuilding and special political missions, including the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti, to which Uruguay is a principal contributor. Our historical belief that a national society must be ruled by law means that we believe that the community of sovereign nations should regulate itself in conformity with international law. In that context, it is Uruguay’s hope that the international community can take effective steps towards eliminating nuclear weapons and focus its efforts on eliminating this terrible threat still hanging over humankind. Similarly, we call for redoubled efforts to enable us finally to conclude a treaty regulating the arms trade, which has a serious impact on Latin American and Caribbean countries and other developing regions of the world. Regarding the promotion and protection of human rights, Uruguay’s coordination with the international system has reached a very high level. Our country is party to all legal instruments relating to human rights and international humanitarian law. It offers an open invitation to all universal and inter-American special procedures to visit the country and recognizes the binding jurisdiction of all monitoring committees for receiving individual complaints and communications. At the same time, Uruguay has expressed its preference for establishing international jurisdictional bodies and institutions. Our country’s longtime goal in this area was realized at the regional level through the establishment in 1969 of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights under the San José de Costa Rica Pact. Uruguay has been a member of the Human Rights Council since its creation in 2006 and is its President for the period 2011-2012. During our mandate, we have advocated for a new culture of dialogue, for the progressive and incremental utilization of special procedures and other instruments for action before resorting to coercive or confrontational measures, for a two-way cooperative model between States and the United Nations system, for greater regional coordination and for the importance of civil society’s participation. We have promptly, clearly and constructively expressed our position on situations involving serious violations of human rights, ethnic cleansing, crimes against humanity and war crimes. Uruguay has been a party to the Rome Statute since 2002 and has enacted a law that can be seen as a model of cooperation with the International Criminal Court. Seven years ago, when the Assembly was considering the concept of the responsibility to protect, we committed to ending mass atrocities, giving priority to prevention and aiding States that so requested to comply fully with their responsibilities to protect their peoples from such scourges and to respond speedily and decisively in accordance with the provisions of the United Nations Charter. We firmly condemn the serious violations of human rights that are taking place in Syria. The situation has deteriorated and the suffering of the civilian population has become intolerable. We support the work of the independent international commission of inquiry established by the Human Rights Council, which in its most recent report (A/HRC/21/50) states that there is reason to believe that Government forces are committing crimes against humanity. All violence in Syria must cease immediately; it is essential that we establish a process of dialogue aimed at reaching a peaceful solution. Uruguay supports the mediator role of the United Nations within a framework of a strict respect for international law and the principles of the Charter. The protection of civilians is a multifaceted task, of which the most sensitive and important aspect is protecting those facing imminent danger of physical violence. Through its firm commitment to peacekeeping operations, Uruguay has played and will continue to play a proactive and constructive role both at Headquarters and on the ground. Nevertheless, we must make greater efforts and work for better coherence among all the actors involved in order to eliminate or minimize as far as possible the numbers of civilian victims of armed conflicts. Human rights are universal, interdependent and indivisible. Ensuring that they are enforced, protected and promoted is possible only through a firmly established rule of law and well-functioning democratic institutions, democracy, good governance and a more effective multilateral system. It is essential that the United Nations adapt to global challenges, guarantee its presence on the ground and respond to all the challenges faced by developing countries in accordance with their priorities and needs. It is thus imperative that development processes emphasize one of the greatest threats to the rule of law and democracy — poverty, particularly extreme poverty, which causes instability and insecurity. Our country has given absolute priority to combating that scourge purposefully and head on. In the past year alone, Uruguay was able to reduce the percentage of people living in poverty from 18.6 to 13.7 per cent, and of those in extreme poverty from 1.1 to 0.5 per cent. Combating the adverse effects of climate change, a key challenge to achieving sustainable development, is also one of our priorities. Now more than ever, we must revitalize our global alliance for development and increase international cooperation. Finally, if the strength and sustainability of the rule of law at the national level depend on the active participation of citizens in defending the standards that ensure every society’s continued coexistence and development, at the international level it requires full compliance with the principles of international law and the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and strong commitment to the causes of peace, the peaceful settlement of disputes and multilateralism. That is the main goal that Uruguay has pursued during the process of building the United Nations, both as a founding Member and through its participation in the activities of the General Assembly. It is our ambition to continue those efforts from within the Security Council should our country be elected, as we hope, to that body as a non-permanent member for the period 2016-2017.﻿It is a great honour to address the General Assembly. I would like to join other speakers in congratulating His Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election to preside over the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I am sure that his diplomatic experience will contribute to the success of the work of this session. I assure him of the full commitment of the Mozambican delegation to contributing to the success of this session. I equally congratulate his predecessor, His Excellency Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser of Qatar, for his commitment and dedication in leading the Assembly at its most recent session. I would also like to share with the Assembly our satisfaction at the progress made during the most recent session’s debate, held under the theme “The role of mediation in the peaceful resolution of disputes”. That theme merited special attention by the international community in various forums and was highlighted by the adoption, last May, of the Helsinki final document, which defines the principles regarding the role of the States in the mediation of disputes. The Helsinki document and the Manila Declaration on the Peaceful Settlement of International Disputes, adopted in 1982, which set a precedent for the peaceful resolution of international disputes, represent a strengthening of the principles that guide States’ actions in the search for solutions to disputes through peaceful means. We salute the timely choice of the theme “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means” for this session, at a time when various factors are hastening the advent of conflict. Those factors, both internal and external in nature, are due to political and/or economic factors. They include the quest for self-determination, socio- political exclusion, the use of natural resources, wealth distribution, border disputes and cultural and religious intolerance. Therefore, we believe that conflict resolution processes should prioritize a holistic approach to resolving conflict, through a free and ongoing dialogue among the parties to a conflict, thereby following universally accepted principles such as dialogue based on truth and the responsibility of the major stakeholders at the national, regional and international levels; participation aimed at reaching real solutions and sustainable development based on an understanding of the need to strengthen the synergies between peace, development and democracy; and the fight against poverty and promotion of sustainable development. The importance we attribute to these principles stems from our experience in a process of reconciliation and peacekeeping, in which a constant and interactive dialogue within Mozambican society has allowed for the consolidation of national unity, peace, development and the fight against poverty so as to further participatory democracy. It is therefore with pride that, on October 4, Mozambique will celebrate 20 years of peace in an atmosphere of stability and economic growth, accomplishments that are the result of an inclusive dialogue, a process of national reconciliation and our observance of the principles of democracy, freedom and justice. The failure of preventive measures leads us to resort to mechanisms for conflict management and resolution. For those mechanisms to be successful, we need to re-evaluate the mandates of, and conventional approaches to, peacekeeping operations, given the underlying changes that have come about in the actual nature of conflict itself since the establishment of the United Nations. Given the multidimensional nature of current conflicts, efforts aimed at their prevention, management and resolution require the cooperation of various stakeholders at the national, regional and international levels under Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter. We believe that success in the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts is directly linked to an understanding of their nature. The scope and facilitation of mediation should be extensively informed by the nature and dynamic of the particular conflict, so as to allow for a better analysis and effective action and to ensure that all parties to the conflict take an integral role in its resolution. In order to pursue these objectives, focus should be placed on cooperation with regional and subregional organizations. We note with concern the persistence of an environment of tension and instability in Africa, in particular in Madagascar, the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Guinea-Bissau, Somalia, the Sudan, South Sudan and Mali. In the Southern African Development Community (SADC) region, the various conflict resolution processes are based on a regional architecture for the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts. This is substantiated within the SADC organ for cooperation in the political, defence and security areas by instruments that create the conditions for dialogue. To facilitate its intervention in this area, the SADC organ created a mediation unit that is based on the participation of a group of elders who, through their deep knowledge of the internal dynamics of the countries referred, have been contributing to peacebuilding, security and stability in the SADC region. The SADC Summit of Heads of State and of Government recently held in Maputo in August thoroughly examined ways to improve the organization’s intervention in the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts. SADC thus reiterated its commitment to working with the parties to the conflicts in the Republic of Madagascar, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Republic of Zimbabwe while at the same time reinforcing its partnership with the international community. The mediation efforts of SADC for the resolution of the political deadlock in Madagascar and the SADC facilitation of the implementation of the comprehensive political agreement in Zimbabwe, continue to make progress towards the establishment of conditions for free, fair and credible elections to take place in both SADC countries. With regard to Madagascar, the efforts of the mediation team led by the former President of the Republic of Mozambique, Joaquim Chissano, resulted in the signing by 10 of the 11 political groups in Madagascar of the SADC road map to end the political crisis in that country. In Zimbabwe, the political situation is generally stable, as the inclusive Government has made tremendous progress in the socioeconomic and political areas. The process for the establishment of a new constitution, which will guide future elections, is at an advanced stage. SADC reiterates its appeal for the complete lifting of the economic sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe in order to contribute to the country’s economic recovery and that of other countries in the region, with which Zimbabwe maintains close economic ties. However, SADC and the international community continue to be concerned with the prevailing climate of instability and the subsequent humanitarian crises in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Cooperation mechanisms among SADC, the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region, the African Union and the United Nations and, above all, extensive comprehensive internal dialogue among the Congolese are needed in seeking lasting solutions to the instability in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. With regard to Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, as Chair of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries, continues to be committed to seeking a viable solution in order to restore constitutional order to that country through internal dialogue and the coordinated intervention of the international community. The people of Guinea-Bissau yearn for peace, stability and development. They want to be the masters of their own destiny, which was why they fought for liberation. That culminated in the country’s independence, whose thirty- ninth anniversary was celebrated on 24 September. Regarding Somalia, the Sudan and South Sudan, Mozambique is delighted by the progress in the respective political processes. We are confident that such achievements will contribute to lasting peace and stability in those countries. We follow with concern the lack of progress in seeking viable solutions to the political process in the Middle East. That process is a challenge not only for the countries involved and for the region, but also for the world at large, owing to its implications for international peace and security. We therefore appeal to all relevant actors to engage in a constructive dialogue and to work towards a peaceful solution that guarantees peace, security and stability. We reiterate our belief in the importance of the ongoing commitment of the United Nations towards the prompt implementation of the relevant resolutions of the Organization. We further reiterate that internal dialogue, regional cooperation and the realistic intervention of the United Nations must be the priorities. We reaffirm our unequivocal support for the cause of the Palestinian people, who have been denied their inalienable right to self-determination. We fully support the principle of establishing the two States of Palestine and Israel living side by side in peace. Similarly, we reaffirm our support for the international community’s engagement in seeking a sustainable solution to the issue of the Western Sahara’s self-determination. We cannot understand or accept the delays in conducting the referendum already agreed on by all parties under the auspices of the United Nations. Mozambique continues to follow with concern the maintenance of the unjust economic embargo against Cuba, which impedes the economic and social development of that sisterly country. Mozambique therefore reiterates the call of the majority of Member States for the immediate lifting of the embargo. The nature of the challenges that we face in the area of international peace and security lead us to affirm before the Assembly the increasing relevance of multilateral mechanisms for the peaceful resolution of disputes or situations of conflict. We note with satisfaction that, throughout more than a half a century of its existence, the United Nations has made undeniable achievements in the maintenance of peace and in the prevention and resolution of conflicts. In order to more effectively respond to the growing challenges to resolving conflicts, we must pursue more resolutely the reform agenda of the United Nations system, in particular Security Council reform and the revitalization of the General Assembly. In that task, we believe that those two organs must adopt the following approach. The steps should include a comprehensive strategic plan of action and a detailed programme to address conflict situations; strengthening the capacity of resource mobilization for peacekeeping missions; the negotiation and implementation of sustainable political solutions; and engaging in a long-term perspective. The Security Council must play a more proactive role in the solution of conflicts by, inter alia, fully implementing the resolutions that it adopts. We therefore reiterate the validity and relevance of the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter and of other international instruments. Such values must remain the main source of inspiration in the pursuit of political and lasting solutions to conflicts. Mozambique thus believes that multilateral organizations, such as the United Nations, the African Union and other subregional organizations, play a fundamental role in the pursuit of peace and development. The resolution of conflicts is a crucial condition for the achievement of internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals, in particular by African countries and least developed countries. In that context, as part of the ongoing discussions on establishing a post-2015 development agenda, Member States must act jointly in seeking points of convergence that will make it possible to adopt consensus and sustainable solutions for the well- being of our people. In that connection, we would like to express our optimism over the consensus understanding reached at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development. We are aware of the fact that the success of such an agreement depends on an integrated approach towards the economic, social, cultural and environmental components, as well as on defining a comprehensive framework for resource mobilization under the terms of the common vision of resolution 66/288, entitled “The future we want”. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate Mozambique’s commitment to continuing to cooperate with the United Nations in seeking peaceful solutions to conflicts and to peace, stability and sustainable development.﻿I congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. His election represents one more important step in an already illustrious career, as well as a historic moment for Serbia, one that recognizes its courageous efforts to overcome a difficult recent past and to proceed with determination towards European integration. Allow me also to express a word of recognition to Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for his successful leadership of the Assembly in a particularly demanding year. We also offer praise and support to our Secretary-General for his commendable work, in particular for his efforts made to promote peace in a time of great challenges. As Portugal is three months away from the conclusion of our mandate in the Security Council, to which we were elected by a significant majority of the Member States present in this Hall, we consider it appropriate to present an assessment to the General Assembly. We fulfilled our mandate with both rigour and transparency, always seeking to strengthen the credibility and efficiency of the principal organ entrusted with the protection of international peace and security. We were guided by the same principles that have always oriented our foreign policy and which have merited the trust of the Assembly, namely, the defence of the primacy of international law, the search for effective multilateralism and the central role of the United Nations in the international architecture. With equal coherence and firm resolve we have defended the promotion of human rights, the role of women, the protection of civilians, the strengthening of action defending children against violence and the protection of children in the context of armed conflict. Sustainable development, the fight against poverty, food security and the particularly devastating effects of climate change on small island developing States, which threaten their very existence, remain, for Portugal, fundamental pillars for our action within the United Nations. With equal perseverance, we have sought to strengthen the role of the Security Council in the fight against new challenges to international peace and security, such as organized crime; the proliferation of illicit trafficking, terrorism and pandemics; the Council’s capacity to prevent conflicts and to bring mediation into play; and its efforts to improve coordination with regional and subregional organizations. We have played an active role, and continue to do so, in the collective efforts to overcome crises, such as those that emerged in Côte d’Ivoire, Libya and Yemen, or the current challenges in Syria, Guinea-Bissau and Mali. Our actions have always been driven by openness to dialogue and a constructive and balanced attitude, embodying our vocation to build bridges and generate consensus without abdicating our values and principles. We hope to have lived up to the high expectations and trust placed in us. As Chair of the Informal Working Group on Documentation and Other Procedural Questions, we sought to improve the internal working methods of the Council and its communication with the General Assembly, with a view to making it more effective and open and more in harmony with our times. We will present a report to the Assembly on the work undertaken on that issue. It is important, however, to recognize that the credibility of the Security Council is also underpinned by a need for its composition to reflect the current geopolitical reality, one that is quite different from the dynamic that was in place in 1945. It is increasingly difficult for us, as it is for many others, to see that the increasing role of Brazil and India in the international scene has not yet been acknowledged with permanent seats on the Security Council, or that Africa is the only continent without a permanent seat on the Council. The Security Council continues to confront serious obstacles. The number of victims in Syria is exponentially increasing day by day. We remain impotent witnesses before a true humanitarian catastrophe and a generalized systematic violation of the most basic rights of the Syrian people. In addition, the catastrophe could have been avoided had the Syrian Government not chosen military force and brutal repression in response to the legitimate protests by its people, which systematically excluded any possibility of a politically negotiated outcome to the crisis. However, there is no alternative to a political solution, one that supports the legitimate aspirations of the Syrian people and allows for a democratic transition driven by the Syrians themselves, one in which they see their wishes reflected. Increased militarization of the conflict will undoubtedly lead to even more suffering for the civilian population, threaten the territorial integrity of Syria and increase the risks of destabilization for its neighbours and indeed for the region as a whole. The appointment of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, a diplomat whom we greatly respect, as the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria should be seen as a new opportunity for the parties to revisit their options, cease the violence and seriously engage in a process of political transition. For the Joint Special Representative’s mission to be a success, the Security Council will finally have to exert joint, continued and effective pressure on all parties and most certainly on the Syrian authorities, who bear primary responsibility for the current situation. The impasse in finding a lasting solution to the Israeli-Arab conflict is also of great concern and an increasingly urgent issue in the light of the recent developments in the Middle East and North Africa and the fight of the people of those regions for liberty, democracy and dignity. There will be no lasting peace, no stability and no security in the Middle East without a solution to the question of Palestine. We understand and share Israel’s legitimate security aspirations. Yet we also understand and share the frustration of the Palestinian people, for whom an independent Palestinian State is not simply an inalienable right, but also a straightforward question of justice. Only a comprehensive deal that is negotiated directly by the parties on the basis of United Nations resolutions and internationally recognized parameters and which solves the pending questions and is dedicated to the two-State solution of Israel and Palestine living side by side in peace will meet both the security concerns laid down by Israel and the aspirations of the Palestinian people for independence, liberty and dignity. We appeal to the Israelis and Palestinians to quickly restart direct negotiations. Another regional issue still at an impasse and of serious concern in the Middle East is the question of a nuclear Iran. We regret the absence of any positive developments on the issue despite the significant diplomatic efforts under way and the application of mechanisms of international pressure. The onus of the situation is on Tehran. In Africa, we are faced with a grave situation in the Sahel, particularly in Mali, which threatens the whole region and could spread throughout Western Africa, putting both stability and development at risk in a number of countries. As a result of a tapestry of historical, economic and social influences, we are witnessing an exponential growth in terrorism, with increasing links to organized transnational crime, drugs and other sorts of illicit trafficking. In that regard, the international community should be more active. Accordingly, we support the outcome of the recent High-level Meeting on the Sahel, which contributed to the creation of an integrated international strategy for the region. It is against that grave regional background that the crisis in Guinea-Bissau is unfolding. The military coup of 12 April interrupted a democratic electoral process, violating the principles defended by the United Nations, as was clearly recognized in Security Council resolution 2048 (2012). It is imperative that the constitutional order in Guinea-Bissau be restored. That requires the appointment of an inclusive Government that includes the African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde, which is the party holding the majority in the National Assembly; permission for the legitimate leaders to return without restrictions on their civil and political rights; and the organization of free and credible elections. Any and all solutions to the present crisis will have to respect international legality and the constitutional order of Guinea-Bissau, and must be translated into an internal, inclusive, and credible political process capable of creating national stability. To that end, coordinated action by the international community — the United Nations, the African Union, the Economic Community of West African States, the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries (CPLP) and the European Union — is essential. Portugal is fully engaged and available to work with all interested parties in the process. It is inconceivable that, in the twenty-first century, democratically elected African leaders are pushed aside by force and are made to live outside their countries. It is up to all of us to defend the principles of the Charter and to apply, without any ambiguities, the principle of zero tolerance in such situations. In that context, I note the increasingly relevant role of the African Union, which has been working in close coordination with the United Nations for the promotion and protection of peace and security on the African continent. I also take advantage of this opportunity to congratulate Mrs. Dlamini-Zuma on her election as President of the Commission of the African Union. That also represents a milestone in the strengthening of the role of women in Africa, which we also welcome with great satisfaction. Allow me also to refer to a successful case and a good example, Timor-Leste. It is a successful example thanks, first of all, to the Timorese themselves, but also owing to the efficient support of the United Nations. The United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor- Leste will conclude its mandate at the end of the year. It will do so with the sense of having accomplished its purpose, thanks to the maturity shown by the Timorese people over recent years, as exemplified in the successful presidential and legislative elections held just a few months ago. A new cycle of cooperation between the international community and Timor-Leste is now opening in line with the priorities defined by that country’s Government. In that context, Portugal will continue to support Timor-Leste on its path to economic and social development, including the strengthening of its institutions and democratic values, as well as the rule of law and the promotion of the human rights of the Timorese people. Timor-Leste, like Guinea-Bissau, is a member State of the CPLP, along with Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde, Mozambique, and Sao Tome and Principe. Within the CPLP we share a common language and history, but we have also developed shared efforts towards the defence of universal values, through active multilateralism within the framework of the United Nations and the regional organizations to which we belong. The significance of the Portuguese language as a language of global communication, business and culture, with about 250 million speakers, should be taken advantage of by the international community. For that reason, we will continue to work together to have Portuguese recognized as an official language of the United Nations. I referred at the beginning of my statement to Portugal’s commitment to multilateralism as the most effective means for finding common solutions to the global challenges that we face. I specifically noted our efforts in the defence of human rights and in the promotion of sustainable development. In that context, we support the outcomes achieved at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, in part thanks to the notable efforts of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and the Brazilian Government. We continue to defend the universal, indivisible and interdependent rights of all human beings, be they political, economic, social or cultural. We have a solid commitment to humanitarian law and to the excellent work of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. In that context, with the commitment to defend and promote human rights and with the same sense of responsibility with which we undertook our current mandate in the Security Council, Portugal has announced its candidacy for the Human Rights Council for the years 2015 to 2017. We hope to be able to merit, once again, the trust of the Assembly and to serve, for the first time, in that body. The changes in today’s world call for the promotion of a culture of dialogue on a global scale based on tolerance and the respect for human dignity. The United Nations should remain in the vanguard of those efforts, namely through initiatives such as the Alliance of Civilizations. I would like to congratulate the High Representative of the Alliance of Civilizations for his leadership and work in the defence of peace and of a better understanding among peoples. Indeed, the dialogue among different cultures, civilizations and religions is at the very heart of the work of the United Nations. In conclusion, today, as in the past, the United Nations has to reflect on what it is and what we collectively want it to be. It should translate the indispensable convergence of the common will of States into actions that contribute to a better world. Its central objective should be the maintenance of international peace and security and greater prosperity for all. Portugal stands steadfast in its commitment to those efforts.﻿We have gathered here to ponder and work together in order to build a better life for the entire human community and for our nations. Coming from Iran — the land of glory and beauty, the land of knowledge, culture, wisdom and morality, the cradle of philosophy and mysticism, the land of compassion and light, the land of scientists, scholars, philosophers, masters of literature and writers, the land of Avicenna, Ferdowsi, Hafiz, Maulana, Attar, Khayyám and Shahriar — I represent a great and proud nation that is one of the founders of human civilization and an inheritor of respected universal values. I represent a conscious nation that is dedicated to the cause of freedom, peace and compassion, a nation that has experienced the agony and bitter times of aggression and imposed wars and that profoundly values the blessings of peace and stability. I am now here for the eighth time in the eighth year of my service to the noble people in this Assembly of sisters and brothers from across the world to show to the world that my noble nation, like its brilliant past, has a global vision and welcomes any effort intended to provide and promote peace, stability and tranquillity, which can be only realized through the harmony, cooperation and joint management of the world. I am here to voice to the Assembly and to the whole world the divine and humanitarian message of the learned men and women of my country, a message that Iran’s great orator and poet, Saadi, presented to humanity in his eternal poetry: “Human beings are members of a whole, In creation of one essence and soul, If one member is afflicted with pain, Other members uneasy will remain.” I have talked over the past seven years about the current challenges, solutions and prospects of the future world. Today, I want to raise and discuss such issues from a different perspective. Thousands of years have passed since the children of Adam — peace be upon him — started to settle down in various parts of the Earth. Peoples of different colours, inclinations, languages, customs and traditions persistently pursued their aspirations to build a noble society for a more beautiful life, blessed with lasting peace, security and happiness. Despite all of the efforts on the part of righteous people and justice-seekers and the sufferings and pains endured by masses of people in the quest to achieve happiness and victory, the history of humankind is marked, except in rare cases, with unfulfilled dreams and failures. Imagine, for a moment, that there had been no egoism, distrust, malicious behaviour or dictatorships, with no one violating the rights of others. Imagine that humanitarian values had been viewed as the criterion for social dignity instead of aff luence and consumerism Imagine if humankind had not experienced the Dark Ages and if the centres of power had not hindered the flourishing of knowledge and constructive thoughts. Imagine if the Crusades and the ensuing periods of slavery and colonialism had not happened, and if the successors of the Dark Ages had followed a course based on humanitarian principles. Imagine if the First and Second World Wars in Europe, the wars in Korea, Viet Nam, Africa, Latin America and in the Balkans not happened, and if, instead of the occupation of Palestine and imposition of a fake Government, displacement and genocide of millions of people around the globe, the truth behind those wars based on justice had been revealed. Imagine if Saddam Hussein had not invaded Iran and the big Powers had supported the rights of the Iranian people instead of siding with Saddam. Imagine if the tragic incident of 11 September and the military actions against Afghanistan and Iraq that left millions killed and homeless had not happened, and if, instead of killing and throwing the culprit into the sea without trial or without informing the world and people of America, an independent fact-finding team had been formed to make the general public aware of the truth behind the incident and to prepare the way for the perpetrators to be brought to justice. Imagine if extremism or terrorism had not been used to secure political goals, if arms had been turned into pens, and if military expenditures had been used to promote well-being and amity among nations. Imagine if the drums of ethnic, religious or racial conflicts not been beaten, and if differences had not been used for the purpose of advancing political agendas. Imagine if the right to criticize the hegemonic policies and actions of world Zionism had been recognized so as to allow the world media to report freely and shed light on the realities, instead of making deceitful gestures of seeming to back freedom but in a way that offends the sanctities and most sacred beliefs of human beings and divine messengers, who, as the purest and most compassionate human beings, are the gift of the Almighty to humankind. Imagine if the Security Council had not been under the domination of a limited number of Governments, thus preventing the United Nations from carrying out its responsibilities in a just and equitable manner. Imagine if international economic institutions had not been under outside pressures and were allowed to perform their duties and functions by using their expertise based on fairness and justice. Imagine if world capitalists had not weakened or victimized national economies in order to make up for their own mistakes. Imagine if integrity and honesty had prevailed in international relations and if all nations and Governments were treated equally and justly in global efforts to build and expand happiness for all humankind. And imagine if tens of other unfavourable situations had not occurred throughout history, how beautiful and pleasant our lives and how lovely the history of humankind would have been. Let us take a look at the state of the world today. With regard to the economic situation, poverty is on the rise and the gap between the rich and the poor is widening. The total foreign debt of 18 industrialized countries exceeds $60 trillion, while the repayment of half of that amount would be sufficient to eradicate poverty in the world. Economies dependent on consumerism and the exploitation of people only serve the interests of a limited number of countries. The creation of worthless paper assets through influence and control over the world’s economic centres constitutes the greatest abuse in history and is considered a major contributor to the global economic crisis. It has been reported that $32 trillion in paper assets were printed by one Government alone. Development planning, based on a capitalist economy, which runs in a vicious circle, triggers unhealthy and devastating competition and is a failed practice. With regard to the cultural situation, from the standpoint of the politicians who control the centres of world power, concepts such as moral principles, purity, honesty, integrity, compassion and self-sacrifice are typically rejected as defunct and outdated notions and an impediment to the accomplishment of their goals. They openly talk about their disbelief in the relevance of ethics to political and social affairs. Authentic and indigenous cultures, the product of centuries — old national efforts, the common denominator of which reflects profound human feelings and love towards beauty and is the force that breeds diversity, cultural life and social dynamism, are under constant attacks and risk extinction. A specific lifestyle, devoid of individual or social identity, is being imposed on nations by the organized and systematic destruction and the humiliation of identities. The family, the most noble social institution and a centre emanating love and humankind, has been seriously weakened and its constructive role is on the decline. The sublime role and nature of women as heavenly beings, manifestations of the divine image and beauty and the main pillars of every society, have been damaged and abused by the powerful and the wealthy. The human soul has become frustrated and the essence of humankind humiliated and suppressed. With regard to the political and security situation, unilateralism, the application of double standards and the imposition of wars, instability and foreign occupation in order to ensure economic interests and expand dominance over sensitive centres of the world have become the order of the day. The arms race and intimidation by nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction by the hegemonic Powers have become prevalent. Testing new generations of ultra-modern weaponry and the pledge to disclose those armaments in due time is now being used as part of a new language of threat against nations to coerce them into accepting a new era of hegemony. The continued threat by the uncivilized Zionists to resort to military action against our great nation is a clear example of this bitter reality. A state of mistrust has cast its shadow on international relations, while there is no trusted or just authority to help resolve world conflicts. No one feels secure or safe, even those who have stockpiled thousands of atomic bombs and other arms in their arsenals. With regard to the environment, which is a common resource and heritage of all humankind that ensures man’s survival, it has been seriously damaged and devastated as a result of the irresponsible and excessive use of resources, particularly by capitalists across the world. That situation that has caused massive drought, flood, and pollution, inf licting irreparable damage and seriously jeopardizing human life on Earth. Despite advances in scientific knowledge and technology, the aspirations of Adam’s children have not yet been fulfilled. Does anybody believe that the continuation of the current order is capable of bringing about happiness for human society? Today everyone is discontented and disappointed with the current international order. Human beings do not deserve the continuous sufferings brought about by the present situation. The God of wisdom and compassion, who loves all human beings, has not ordained such a destiny for humankind. He has ordered humans, as the supreme creatures, to make the best and most beautiful life on Earth along the lines of justice, love and dignity. We must therefore think of a solution. Who is responsible for all the sufferings and failures? Some people try to justify it by saying that everything is normal and a ref lection of divine will, thereby putting the blame on States for all prevalent vices and evils. They are of the opinion that it is States that succumb to discrimination and tyranny. It is States that surrender to dictatorship and greed. It is States that submit to the hegemony and arrogance of expansionist Powers. It is States that are influenced by the propaganda tactics of other Powers, and most of the evils in our world are the result of their passivity and willingness to live under the sway of the world Powers. Such are the arguments raised by those who tend to blame States for the unfavourable conditions that prevail around the world, with the aim of justifying the attitudes and destructive behaviour of the ruling minority. Such supposedly genuine claims can in no way justify continuing with the current oppressive international order, because in fact poverty is being imposed on States, and the Powers’ are pursuing their ambitions and goals either by deceit or by resort to force. To justify their inhuman actions, they promote the theory of the survival of the fittest. Yet in principle, what most Governments and States and their peoples are seeking is fairness; they submit humbly to what is right and what they want is to foster dignity, prosperity and constructive relations. The vast majority of people have no interest in expanding their territories, nor do they seek enormous wealth. They have no disputes among themselves on matters of principle and have never played a part in unleashing the disastrous events of history. I do not believe that Muslims, Christians, Jews, Hindus, Buddhists or others have any problems among themselves, or are hostile to one another. They get along comfortably and live together in an atmosphere of peace and amity. They are all devoted to the cause of justice, purity and love. The general tendency of States has always been to work towards positive common aspirations to the qualities that reflect great beauty and nobility, divine and human. The current abysmal state of the world and the bitter incidents of its history are due mainly to iniquitous management by the self-proclaimed centres of power, which have dedicated themselves to the Devil. The order that is rooted in the anti-human concepts of slavery and colonialism, old and new, is responsible for poverty, corruption, ignorance, oppression and discrimination in every corner of the world. The current world order has certain characteristics. It is founded on materialism and thus is unmoored from moral values. It has been shaped by selfishness, deception, hatred and animosity. It believes in labelling human beings, humiliating other nations and dominating and trampling on the rights of others. It seeks to expand its domination by spreading discord and conflict among ethnic groups and nations. It aims to monopolize power, wealth, science and technology. The policies of the world’s main centres of power are based on the principles of domination and conquest. Such Powers seek only supremacy; they do not desire peace and they definitely do not promote it in the service of their nations. Are we to believe that those who spend hundreds of millions of dollars on election campaigns have the interests of the peoples of the world at heart? Despite what the big political parties in the capitalist countries claim, the money that goes into election campaigns is usually nothing but an investment on the part of the ruling parties. In such countries, people have to vote for parties that represent only a small percentage of voters. The will and views of the masses have little impact or influence on big decisions, especially those concerning major domestic and foreign policies in the United States and Europe. Their voices go unheard even when they constitute 99 per cent of their societies. Human and ethical values are sacrificed in order to win votes, and any willingness to listen to the demands of the people has become merely a tool to be used at election time. The current world order is discriminatory and based on injustice. What should be done, and what is the way out of the current situation? There is no doubt that the world is in need of a new order and a fresh way of thinking. We need an order that recognizes man as God’s supreme creature, possessing both material and spiritual qualities and a pure and divine nature, filled with the desire to seek justice and truth; that aims to restore human dignity and believes in universal happiness and the possibility of perfection; that seeks peace, lasting security and welfare for everyone, in all walks of life, around the globe; that is founded on trust and kindness and brings our thoughts, hearts and hands closer together and in which rulers love their people; that is just and fair, makes everybody equal before the law, and has no double standards; that allows world leaders to see themselves as committed servants of their people, not their superiors; and that sees authority as a sacred gift from a people to its rulers, not an opportunity to amass power and wealth. Can such an order exist without the contribution of all to the way the world is run? It is abundantly evident that when all peoples and Governments start to think, commit themselves to the aforementioned principles, focus on internationally important issues and participate in decision-making, it will be possible for their desires to be realized. In raising collective awareness, the possibility of governing the world jointly becomes more real and the chances of putting it into practice increase. Together, therefore, we must trust in God Almighty and stand up to the rapacious minority with all our strength in order to isolate them, so that they can no longer decide the destiny of other nations. We must believe in the bounty of God’s blessing and mercy and seek it within the integration and unity of human society. Governments that are born of free national will must believe in their own unlimited capabilities and know that they can achieve victory if they fight fiercely to combat an unjust world order and to defend human rights. We must lay the ground for united world rule by insisting on justice in all its aspects, strengthening unity and friendship and expanding economic, social, cultural and political interaction in independent and specialized organizations. We must care about the interests of all the people of the world and join hands to reform the current United Nations entities with joint efforts and cooperation. The United Nations belongs to its Member States, and therefore the existence of any discrimination among those Members is a great insult to all. Any discrimination or monopolization of power in the Organization is unacceptable. We must make a more coordinated effort to create, promote and firmly establish the language needed to enable us to design the bodies needed for a united world rule that is imbued with justice, love, freedom and amity. Participation in global management is the basis of lasting peace. The Non-Aligned Movement, the second largest transregional group after the United Nations, held its sixteenth summit in Tehran with the motto of “Joint global management”, cognizant of the importance of this issue and of the shortcomings of the current mismanagement in the emergence of crises and problems afflicting the world today. During the summit, participating Heads of State and representatives of more than 120 countries underscored the necessity of more serious and effective participation of all nations in global management. Fortunately, we are now at a historic juncture. On the one hand, Marxism is no longer around; it has been practically eliminated from management systems. On the other hand, capitalism is bogged down in a self- made quagmire. Indeed, it has reached a deadlock and appears to be unable to come up with any noteworthy solutions to the world’s various economic, political, security and cultural problems. The Non-Aligned Movement is proud to again emphasize the rightfulness of its historic decision to reject the power polarities and unbridled hegemony ruling the world. On behalf of the members of Non-Aligned Movement, I would like to invite all the countries in the world to play a more active role in making it possible for everybody to contribute to global decision-making processes. The need to remove structural barriers and to encourage the process of universal participation in global management has never been greater. The United Nations lacks the efficiency to bring about the required changes. If this inefficiency persists, nations will lose hope in the ability of global structures to defend their rights. If the United Nations is not restructured, international interactions and the spirit of collective global cooperation will be tarnished, and the standing of the United Nations will be damaged. The United Nations, which was established with the purpose of expanding justice and reinstituting universal human rights, has in practice been engulfed by discrimination, preparing a supportive ground for domination by a few powerful countries. Consequently, United Nations inefficiency has increased. Moreover, the existence of the veto right and monopolization of power in the Security Council have made it nearly impossible to defend the rights of the nations. The issue of United Nations restructuring is vital; the need has been emphasized time and again by State representatives. That goal that yet to be accomplished. I would like to urge the States Members of the United Nations and the Secretary-General and his colleagues to place the issue high on their agenda and to devise an appropriate mechanism to make it happen. The Non-Aligned Movement stands ready to aid the United Nations in that essential endeavour. Creating peace and lasting security with a decent life for all, although a great and historic mission, can be accomplished. Almighty God has not left us alone in that mission and has said that it will surely happen. If it does not, then that will contradict his wisdom. God has promised us a man of kindness, a man who loves people and absolute justice, a man who is a perfect human being, named the Imam Al-Mahdi — a man who will come in the company of Jesus Christ and the righteous. By using the inherent potential of all the worthy men and women of all nations — I repeat, the inherent potential of all the worthy men and women of all nations — he will lead humanity into achieving its glorious and eternal ideals. The arrival of the ultimate saviour will mark a new beginning, a rebirth and a resurrection. It will be the beginning of peace, lasting security and genuine life. His arrival will be the end of oppression, immorality, poverty and discrimination and the beginning of justice, love and empathy. He will come, and he will cut through ignorance, superstition and prejudice by opening the gates of science and knowledge. He will establish a world brimming with prudence, and he will prepare the ground for the collective, active and constructive participation of all in global management. He will come to grant kindness, hope, freedom and dignity to all humankind as a gift. He will come so that humankind will taste the pleasure of being human and being in the company of other humans. He will come so that hands will be joined, hearts will be filled with love, and thoughts will be purified and will be at the service of the security, welfare, happiness, well-being and peace of all. He will come to return all the children of Adam, irrespective of their skin color, to their innate origin after a long history of separation and division, linking them to eternal happiness and joy. The arrival of the ultimate saviour, Jesus Christ and the righteous, will bring about an eternally bright future for humankind, not by force or by waging wars but through thought-awakening and developing kindness in everyone. Their arrival will breathe new life into the cold and frozen hearts and bodies of the world. He will bless humankind with a spring that puts an end to our winter of ignorance, poverty and war with the tidings of a season of blossoming. He will end the winter of ignorance for humankind. Now we can sense the sweet scent and the soulful breeze of the spring, a spring that has just begun and that does not belong to a specific race, ethnicity, nation or region, a spring that will soon reach all the territories in Asia, Europe, Africa and the Americas. He will be the spring of all the justice seekers, freedom lovers and the followers of heavenly prophets. He will be the spring of humankind and the greenery of all ages. Let us join hands and clear the way for his eventual arrival, with empathy and cooperation, in harmony and unity. Let us march on this path to salvation for the thirsty souls of humankind to taste immortal joy and grace. Long live this spring, long live this spring — again and again, long live this spring.﻿I should like to begin by extending my congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, and I wish him every success. I would also like to commend Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of the Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, for his positive contribution to the proceedings of the Assembly. I would like to reiterate to Secretary-General Ban Ki- moon the encouragement and support of Senegal in the conduct of his delicate mission at the head of our Organization. On 25 March 2012, in a two-round, keenly contested presidential election, the Senegalese people, inspired by its values of democracy and freedom, calmly and serenely voted massively, by more than 65 per cent, for change and the respect of republican norms. We were supported by friendly countries and organizations in that great undertaking, which was aimed at the consolidation of our democratic tradition, especially through the improvement of our electoral institutions and the monitoring of the various stages of the process. I would like to express here my deep gratitude to all those who supported that process. In my capacity as Senegal’s newly elected President, let me reiterate our faith in our shared values and in the mandate of the United Nations to promote, through cooperation, the advent of a better and friendlier world for all. Building a better world entails, undoubtedly and above all, working together for peace to reign among and within our peoples, as suggested by the theme of this session: “Adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. Born out of the ashes and ruins of war, the United Nations is the expression of the dream of and hope for a world free from the spectre of antagonism and of any Manichaean view whereby the good are on one side and the bad on the other. Sixty-seven years on, through mediation efforts and good offices, conciliation, arbitration and peace missions, the United Nations has made a considerable contribution to the pacification of international relations. Yet, although commendable progress has been achieved, threats to peace and security remain worrisome and have radically evolved. That is the case in northern Mali, where organized and heavily armed terrorist groups, living off trafficking of all kinds, are occupying, in complete illegality, two thirds of the country, sowing despair among the population and destroying symbols of the world’s cultural heritage. Northern Mali has become a lawless area, used as a safe haven for recruitment and training by the international terrorist nebula, which wrongly uses Islam as a pretext to disguise its criminal activities and seeks to attack foreign interests as well as extend its reach to other countries of the subregion. As the guarantor of the collective security of Member States under the Charter of the United Nations, the Security Council has an obligation to act in order to bring an end to such a situation. If it does not do so, it will have failed to live up to its responsibilities. Therefore we call once again on the Council to authorize all actions required to combat those terrorist groups and restore the country’s territorial integrity. In addition, I reiterate our firm rejection of any partition of Mali and our condemnation of the 22 March 2012 coup d’état. It is our conviction that in Africa as elsewhere, the place of the army is in the barracks, under the command of a civilian authority. As for Guinea-Bissau, we, like other Economic Community of West African States member States, appreciate the efforts made by the transitional Government towards national reconciliation, the re-establishment of the country’s institutions, the holding of credible elections and the definitive withdrawal of the army from the political arena. Already ravaged by years of institutional and economic instability, Guinea-Bissau also faces the issue of foreign drug traffickers. The country deserves the attention and support of the international community. The same holds true for Palestine. In its capacity as Chairman of the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, Senegal restates its support for the creation of a viable and independent Palestinian State, with East Jerusalem as its capital and with a seat here among free nations. A viable and independent Palestine, living in peace with the State of Israel, each within secure and internationally recognized borders, is one of our longest-standing unfulfilled promises, even though its fulfilment is the only guarantee for a peaceful, fair and lasting settlement of the Middle East crisis. In the interest of all the peoples of the region and the world, it is high time that the Holy Land of the three revealed religions no longer be a land of fire, blood and tears. The light of wisdom emanating from its spiritual legacies requires it instead to be a land of peace and human fraternity. In Africa, as in the rest of the world, Senegal welcomes and supports the progress of democracy and fundamental freedoms. We are deeply concerned because some leaders deny the obvious fact that the destiny of humankind is to live free, and respond to the legitimate aspirations of their people with appalling violence against innocent civilians. The adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means, the apt theme of this session, should not overshadow other emergencies and unmet needs. More than ever before, we live today in an era of paradoxes and unanswered questions. The greatest paradox of our time is that never before in human history has the world accumulated so much wealth even though never before in human history has the world counted so many poor. So what will the world of tomorrow be like? The question is indeed difficult, but to govern is to foresee and we cannot dodge it. What kind of world do we want when, 20 years after the Rio Earth Summit, it is a proven fact that continuous environmental degradation as a result of human activity threatens to jeopardize the conditions for life on Earth? What kind of world do we want when, according to estimates by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, more than 900 million people suffer from undernourishment even though agriculture has the potential to feed more than twice the planet’s population? What kind of world do we want when, in our towns and villages, millions of human beings have no access to basic social services and millions of women die in childbirth? What kind of world do we want when millions of young people, after years of study, hard work and sacrifice to escape their misery, rather than realizing their dreams are rewarded with nothing but the nightmare and indignity of unemployment? What kind of world do we want when millions of fathers and mothers working for the minimum wage wake up one morning unemployed because the company has gone bankrupt, while those responsible enjoy generous golden parachutes? In a time of so many old and new challenges, history has shown that paradigms have changed and that old solutions will definitely not work. We need to redefine our priorities, invest in the real economy and agree on a new and fairer world order. The African continent, having endured centuries of slavery and exploitation, cannot afford to accept yet another Trojan Horse and be duped into forfeiting its resources in a contest hobbling its progress and well-being. We call for new relations with Africa, not acting upon Africa and Africans but acting with Africa and Africans, in a spirit of cooperation and fairness, taking into account all parties’ priorities and interests. That is the hope we declare here in the United Nations. It is also what we call for in the relations between the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, on the one hand, and the Group of Eight, Group of 20 and other partnership mechanisms, on the other hand. As for Senegal, beyond the demands of democracy and good governance, about which we agree, our national priorities must more than ever focus on agriculture, infrastructure and energy. That is the only path to the progress that will improve people’s day-to-day lives, the sine qua non of development and democratization. With respect to the reform of the Security Council, Senegal reaffirms its belief in the African position expressed in the Ezulwini Consensus. It is only justice and common sense that Africa, the continent with the largest number of countries at the United Nations, and whose problems take up most of the work of the Council, should be fairly represented in that body. Indeed, the democracy required of States should also be required of the Organization to which they all belong. To conclude, on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, currently chaired by Senegal, I hope to renew our common faith in dialogue and the peaceful coexistence of religions, cultures and civilizations. Entering into dialogue and learning to live together depends on recognizing and respecting our differences as a source of richness rather than as a springboard for confrontation. It requires rejecting the defamation of religions and violence in all its forms. It demands renouncing any thought of domination by one culture or one civilization over others. It is about promoting mutual understanding in order to overcome unfounded feelings of suspicion and fear that deform our common humanity. If humankind embraces the “civilization of the universal” advocated by my illustrious compatriot, the late President and poet Léopold Sédar Senghor, man will no longer be a wolf to man, as Hobbes said. Instead, as the saying in our country goes, man will become a remedy to man. We owe that to ourselves and to future generations.﻿May peace be upon us all. I am honoured to represent my country, Indonesia, at this year’s General Assembly debate to discuss how we can find better ways to peacefully resolve or manage conflicts around the world. This, of course, is what the United Nations is all about: to end the scourge of war, and to create a peaceful and equitable world order based on international cooperation. In the decades since its founding, the United Nations has developed a number of instruments to address conflicts in all their manifestations. During those decades, many inter-State and intra-State conflicts have been resolved — those in Angola, Bosnia, Cambodia, Timor-Leste, as well as many others. The question we must now ask is whether those instruments are adequate to address the whole spectrum of conflicts that the world community now faces. That is clearly evident in the Syrian crisis. The world community is witnessing, with great pain, the worsening violence and unfolding humanitarian catastrophe on the ground; at the same time, the United Nations is in a state of paralysis in responding to the situation. There is no end in sight to the conflict, and it appears that we have not yet seen the worst of the crisis. Indonesia therefore reiterates its call for the immediate cessation of violence in Syria, which has taken a high toll in innocent civilian lives. The Security Council must now unite and act decisively, as mandated by the United Nations Charter, to bring the situation under control. Clearly, whatever the explanation, the present international system cannot for now resolve the Syrian conflict. There is every likelihood that the community of nations will see similar conflicts in future. It will be in a different corner of the world, and in a different form, with different actors. It will not help the cause of international peace if, once again, we end up being divided and unable to positively alter the course of the conflict. The world community must develop ways to address them more effectively, towards their peaceful end. We must adapt to twenty-first century security challenges. There is no question that the world we live in today is in much better condition than it was in the twentieth century. Freedom has spread. The threat of nuclear holocaust is receding significantly. There is no prospect of a world war, the kind that twice created such destruction during the twentieth century. The global economy has expanded remarkably. Nations are becoming more interdependent. International cooperation and partnerships are flourishing. However, it is only relative peace, not total peace as yet. We have moved from the era of the cold war to an era of “warm peace”. In this warm peace, the world remains stuck with an outdated international security architecture that still reflects twentieth-century circumstances, in contrast with the global economic architecture, which has done much better in adjusting to the twenty-first century. In this warm peace, the relationships between the major Powers are, for the first time, marked by relative stability and increased cooperation. But the question remains unanswered as to how they will accommodate the growing ranks of emerging Powers that are reshaping the world order. In this warm peace, old enmities and long-standing conflicts can still resurface in the new strategic landscape, even carried on by new generations. In this warm peace, we are seeing new security challenges and opportunities arising from the seismic power shifts that are occurring in some regions. The security implications of the political events in the Middle East are still unfolding. In this warm peace, the world community still has to contend with an array of unfinished business: the Arab-Israeli conflict, nuclear disarmament, territorial disputes in the South China Sea, tensions in the Korean peninsula, and the like. In this warm peace, new progress can easily regress. Hard-won peace processes can stall or even crumble. Strategic miscalculations in disputed theatres may lead to rising tensions and armed clashes. And in this warm peace, pockets of hatred and bigotry, intolerance and extremism continue to litter our world. Perhaps we will have to live with this warm peace for decades. But I believe that we can lower the temperature of this warm peace. Where possible, we can resolve conflicts one by one. We can strengthen the building blocks of peace. We can promote a new globalism that can potentially change the dynamics of conflict resolution. In order to do that, we need to try new approaches and be more imaginative. The first thing we have to do is to evolve a new strategic mindset. Let us face it: remnants of the cold-war mentality still persist in parts of the geopolitical landscape, not least in our own United Nations, where rigid, dogmatic, zero-sum calculations sometimes still come into play. For long-term peace, a peace born of trust and mutual confidence, we must get rid of that mindset. In that light, we must continue to work towards a reformed Security Council, a Council that reflects the strategic realities of the twenty-first century and provides security to all. We must also work to perfect the instruments of peace, which include robust regionalism. We in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) have seen how such regionalism can be a force for peace and cooperation. As a result of a strong regionalism, all of South-east Asia has thrived under ASEAN cooperation. South-east Asia, which was once the cockpit of border wars and the proxy wars of extra-regional Powers, has come together. After ASEAN was founded, in 1967, it devoted the early decades of its life as a regional organization to cultivating the habits of dialogue, consultation and cooperation, not only among its members but with its dialogue partners. Thus, each ASEAN country adopted a new strategic mindset based on trust and a sense of having a stake in the success and progress of all the others. Today the ASEAN family is united and at peace with itself and with the rest of the world. At the same time, we can also develop a universal culture of mutual tolerance and mutual appreciation of one another’s religious convictions. In such a world, the voice of the moderates — the voice of reason and compassion — would be heard clearly over the din of prejudice and bigotry. In a global regime of compassion and tolerance, no war is possible. As a nation that celebrates its diversity of culture and religions, Indonesia calls for mutual respect and understanding among peoples of different faiths. Despite initiatives undertaken by States at the United Nations and in other forums, the defamation of religions persists. We have seen yet another of its ugly faces in the film “ Innocence of Muslims” that is now causing an international uproar. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights underlines that, in exercising freedom of expression, everyone must observe morality and public order. Freedom of expression is therefore not absolute. Hence, I call for an international instrument to effectively prevent incitement to hostility or violence based on religion or belief. As the product of international consensus, that instrument should serve as a point of reference with which the world community must comply. For good measure, we also need to promote a continuing process of dialogue among faiths, civilizations and cultures. Of course, that dialogue should not remain a dialogue, but should translate into actual cooperation so that peoples of different cultures and faiths can come together as a community and care for one another. Those communities will become bulwarks for peace and they will make it difficult if not impossible for any kind of armed conflict to erupt. We must also master the art of preventive diplomacy. Most disputes are intractable; they simmer for what seems to be an eternity, but by a historical reckoning they are not really long, drawn-out affairs. Sooner or later, there comes a conf luence of factors and events that provides a window of opportunity for resolving a dispute and removing conflict from the table of options. That is what we in ASEAN have done with the potential conflicts in the South China Sea. The territorial and sovereignty disputes have been festering there for the better part of a century. But we are managing them with restraint, confidence-building and, at present, through earnest negotiations toward a legally binding code of conduct in the South China Sea. Finally, the culture of peace, mutual tolerance and appreciation, and cooperation must be supported by the right kind of economics. People need to be fed, to be sheltered and to be assured of a future where they have opportunities for a living and a livelihood. That is the only way for peace to be locked in for the long term; that is, when it brings dividends that give human beings robust confidence in the future. The price of inequality between and within nations gives rise to tension born of grievances that can, unless effectively addressed, lead to radicalism and even violence, which threaten international and national peace and security. The solution is to form a global partnership for poverty eradication and for achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and then to formulate a post-MDG development agenda we can fully carry out. Our experience in the resolution of the intra-state conflict in the province of Aceh proves that, if we do enough for peace, if there is a conf luence of favourable circumstances, and if we are prepared to seize the moment, then peace can be achieved. The peace that we achieve will not only give temporary respite, it will also last for generations. For many years, peace has been treated as if it were a science. There are whole libraries about how it can be achieved and preserved. I have come to the conclusion, however, that if peace has a technology it is one born of experience. That experience can be shared and can be useful in creating new experience. And if there is enough sharing of experiences — and that is what Indonesia is trying to achieve — and if there is sufficient political will to apply what is learned from others to one’s unique circumstances, then peace can be widely spread. Peace can be effectively waged. And we would have a gentler, better world.﻿Allow me to congratulate the President on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I would like to assure him of my delegation’s full support and cooperation during his tenure of office. His impeccable credentials and experience will ensure a successful session. I also wish to commend his predecessor for his sterling leadership during the previous session. The establishment of the United Nations by 51 countries following the Second World War ushered in hope for collective security, shared prosperity and justice in international relations. Six decades have passed and the membership of the Organization has swelled more than threefold. But obstacles still remain in the path towards creating a world that was envisioned by our forebears. We know the solutions that can effectively address the multifaceted challenges that confront our world. But it is increasingly difficult to arrive at those solutions within the multilateral system. On the international stage, unilateral actions that defy civility and international law are growing more frequent, and increasingly go unpunished. Despite the lessons of history, there are countries that still believe they can solve the political problems of our time through war and coercion. It does not matter to them that history has shown that the goal of domination through the use of force is not only elusive and dangerous but also unsustainable. Humankind derives no comfort from the potential conflict between the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Western Powers over Iran’s nuclear programme. That looming crisis can be avoided not through the threats being made against Iran, but through negotiations based on respect for sovereign equality and the recognition of the rights and legitimate fears of all parties involved. Our generation is already facing too many problems. Surely we cannot afford another avoidable war. We are saddened by the increasing tension in the East China Sea between two of the most respectable members of the international community, the People’s Republic of China and Japan. No one should take advantage of the situation to fan the flames of discord between those two great nations and ancient civilizations. Instead, we must encourage them to resolve their differences with maturity and through peaceful dialogue. In the Middle East, it is about time that individual interests gave way to compassion and reason, so that the people of Palestine can enjoy their inalienable right to self-determination in our lifetimes. Two States existing side by side in peace and security have long been recognized by the international community as the only plausible route to enduring peace and stability in the region. The State of Israel must be prevailed upon to support that solution. It must stop building illegal settlements on Palestinian lands, which have the potential to render the prospects of a two-State solution irrelevant. Our call for lifting the economic embargo against the Republic of Cuba has gone unheeded for the past 20 years. Our thoughts are with the ordinary people of Cuba who for decades have been denied the fruits of globalization and prosperity through no fault of their own. This unfortunate situation has continued for too long and must be resolved. We call on all stakeholders involved to search for a just and peaceful solution, just as we continue to call on the Kingdom of Morocco to cooperate with the international community and facilitate the independence and self-determination of the people of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic. Peace within and among nations is a fundamental condition for development. The dream of a prosperous world will continue to be an illusion if tensions persist and our world is perpetually at war with itself. That is why we welcome as timely and relevant the choice of theme for this session, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. Today, many nations are rising up against dictatorial regimes in defence of their basic human rights and freedoms. The popular democratic uprising in the Arab world has underscored the frustration of the people with longstanding political repression and lack of accountability. In some Arab countries this quest for freedom, human rights and democracy has been met with atrocious force and brutality. The Government of Syria must accept the popular legitimacy and supremacy of the people’s aspirations before it is too late. Further militarization of the situation in Syria will make the conflict too costly in terms of human life. At the same time, we call on all countries to refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of Syria in a manner that undermines the prospects of peace in that country. True revolutions need no external sponsors. The efforts of the international community must focus on helping the Syrian people find a negotiated, peaceful and lasting settlement of the ongoing conflict in their country. Africa, too, is trying hard to rid itself of wars and conflicts. While we thought we had dealt with the scourge of the coups d’état, it has recently reared its ugly head in a few African countries. We call on the international community to join hands with the African Union and stand firm in refusing to recognize any Government that comes to power through unconstitutional means. It is indeed a mockery of the United Nations, as an Organization that cherishes democratic values and principles, to accord legitimacy to unconstitutional regimes by allowing them to participate in its activities on an equal footing with bona fide Members. In Africa, we have adopted a policy of zero tolerance to unconstitutional changes of Government, and have remained steadfast in our resolve to refuse to recognize Governments that have no democratic legitimacy. We urge the international community to support that policy and to make it universal. Africa has not been without successes in pursuing the settlement of disputes by peaceful means. The United Nations, the African Union and other stakeholders have worked together with the Somali authorities to pave the way for peace in Somalia. The positive results of that joint effort are beginning to be visible. Remarkable strides towards democracy and State-building have been registered. The election of the President less than two weeks ago is a cause for celebration. Today, the people of Somalia have reason to hope that they can put the unfortunate era of instability behind them. It is important to recognize, however, that the road ahead for the Government and the people of Somalia is still long and steep. The continued and unfaltering support of the international community is indespensable to ensuring that Somalia does not relapse into conflict and become a failed State. The development and possession of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction remains a serious concern for the peace and security of humankind. Some States possess those weapons in large quantities and have not remained faithful to their commitments under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Those States often threaten to humiliate non-nuclear-weapon States. That is why other countries aspire to acquire nuclear weapons. We must renew our collective commitment to a nuclear-weapon-free world — a world that is safe for future generations, sustained by the shared values of universal peace and prosperity. In the same way, for as long as international trade in small arms, light weapons and other conventional weapons remains unregulated, peace will continue to elude us. The failure of the international community, less than three months ago, to conclude a robust, legally binding arms trade treaty has left an indelible mark on our generation. We need to step up efforts during this sixty-seventh session and live up to our responsibilities. Conventional weapons, including small arms and light weapons, are the real weapons of mass destruction in Africa; they fuel conflict and account for the death of scores of our people every day. Across the globe, military and political repression have combined with religious intolerance to sustain the spectre of terrorism that continues to besiege our world. While the international community must address those root causes, there can be no acceptable justification for terrorism, because it is both brutal and indiscriminate, and it is innocent people, including women and children, who bear the brunt of it. Lesotho condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. It does not matter if it is sponsored by States or individuals, or whether its evil schemes are carried out by crude means or the most sophisticated weaponry. The recent murder of American diplomats in Libya demonstrates the brutality and senselessness of terrorism. It deserves our strongest condemnation. We extend our sincere condolences to the people and Government of the United States of America. A few days ago, we had an opportunity to reaffirm our resolve to uphold the rule of law both at the national and international levels. Respect for the rule of law is a precondition for guaranteeing fundamental freedoms and respect for human rights. Similarly, strengthening the rule of law at the international level is critical for effectively addressing our current global challenges. International law is the very foundation of peaceful coexistence between nations. The role played by the International Court of Justice as an instrument for the peaceful resolution of conflicts and the bedrock of the international legal order is sacrosanct. Lesotho reaffirms its support for the principal judicial organ of the United Nations and for other established international courts and tribunals. But those bodies must not be politicized, so that they can retain their integrity and fairness. It is almost four years since the multiple global crises befell us, yet the prospects for economic recovery remain gloomy. Evidence of climate change is all around us. Extreme weather conditions, f loods, drought, soil degradation and the rise of sea levels threaten the very existence of humankind. In my country, drought and f loods have heightened food insecurity, and famine is looming. In August, my Government had to declare Lesotho in a situation of food crisis and called on its development partners to assist. That followed a severe drought that afflicted Lesotho in the last planting season. I am humbled to repeat that call for help before this body. Our response to the crisis will focus on the priorities of subsidizing agricultural input and promoting drought-resistant crops, as well as scaling up conservation farming and providing nutrition services to mothers of infants and young children. We went to Rio de Janeiro in June with a determination to adopt ambitious and measurable steps to address sustainable development. Regrettably, the Rio+20 United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development did not meet everyone’s expectations. A lack of a concrete commitment by developed countries to provide developing countries with financing and technology is a source of concern. Nevertheless, there is still hope that a sustainable future is within reach. We must continue to work for the future we want and deserve. As we march forward, we must ensure that the formulation of the sustainable development goals and their interphase with the post-2015 development agenda is done carefully and in an inclusive manner. We must avoid parallel tracks for the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the sustainable development goals, which should be viewed as being complementary to, and not a substitute for, the MDGs. The United Nations, which has remained the same for the past 67 years, cannot be effective in efficiently addressing the challenges of our time. The need for the early reform of the United Nations, in particular the Security Council, was universally agreed by the international community at the World Summit in 2005. Yet, seven years later, negotiations on the reform of the Council are still without progress. As the status quo is maintained, the Council remains largely inept in the discharge of its mandate. Let us resolve to make the Assembly’s sixty-seventh session one of action and less rhetoric. Allow me to conclude by pointing out that a responsive, effective and efficient multilateral system is the only answer to the problems of the twenty-first century. It must be a United Nations that draws on the full diversity of its membership. With the necessary commitment and political will, that goal can indeed be attained.﻿In the modern world, the pace of change, whether political, social or economic, challenges our ability to react in a constructive, sustainable and just manner. And in the face of change, the role of the General Assembly becomes even more important, as the President of the General Assembly has reminded us. We look to the United Nations — our United Nations and our General Assembly — to help us find the common ground needed for the resolution of the big questions of our time. We can truly be a “G-193”, as our President has previously remarked. As an oceanic island nation, Seychelles understands intrinsically that the development of our region depends upon being able to defuse conflict and tension through diplomacy and on defining a framework to properly share all the opportunities that our ocean offers us. In the Indian Ocean, we are particularly concerned with two issues that challenge the proper application of the rule of law in a sustainable manner: the continued problem of maritime piracy and the resolution of the political crisis in Madagascar. Piracy fundamentally alters our relationship with our ocean. Piracy instils fear and uncertainty. We have two compatriots still being held captive in Somalia, and, as long as they remain separated from their families, our ocean represents risk for our nation, rather than the opportunity that it should. Establishing the rule of law in Somalia is obviously the only true long-term and sustainable solution to piracy. We welcome the moves in Somalia and by the international community to strengthen those efforts. Seychelles is already working with the central Government of Somalia, as well as the regions of Somaliland and Puntland, to be able to transfer prosecuted prisoners to serve their sentences in their country of origin. This is a key part of building the rule of law in Somalia. More resources are needed, however, to accelerate the building of appropriate infrastructure in those parts of Somalia where stability has been established. We must transform fear and uncertainty into hope and optimism in Somalia itself, as well as in the Indian Ocean. Seychelles has committed itself to ending the impunity associated with piracy. Piracy has become a global business, operated by a transnational criminal network. Seychelles, in partnership with the Government of the United Kingdom and other international parties, is in the process of setting up a regional anti-piracy prosecution and intelligence centre. The success of this initiative will depend on strong international cooperation. We count on all our partners to work with us to ensure a true long-term solution for this issue. The Indian Ocean Commission, which Seychelles is currently chairing, recognizes the work of the United Nations in favour of peace, democracy and human rights, in the interests of the people of its five member States. The crisis facing Madagascar is truly testing the country. It is plunging the population into great economic and social difficulties, and is affecting the entire region. The Seychelles presidency of the Commission continues supporting the implementation of the road map developed by the Southern African Development Community (SADC). In that context, it organized two meetings between Marc Ravalomanana, the former President, and Andry Nirina Rajoelina, President of the Transition, in Seychelles, with the dual mediation of Presidents James Michel and Jacob Zuma, head of the SADC troika. Those talks, convened at the recommendation of the most recent SADC Summit, enable us today to look forward to useful and relevant actions for a return to constitutional order in Madagascar, in keeping with the electoral timetable drawn up by the United Nations and Madagascar’s Independent National Electoral Commission. In that regard, we should like to express our thanks to the transitional Government, which has confirmed its contribution to the financing of the elections, in accordance with the recommendations of the United Nations. This is also the time to call on all international partners to help ensure fair, transparent and equitable elections in that country, which is anxious to regain its place on the international stage. Through elections Madagascar will return to the rule of law, and it is through the rule of law in Madagascar that we will be able to depend on sustainable development in the Indian Ocean. Respect for the rule of law is also about ensuring that conditions are in place for equity and fairness in the international system as a whole. Small island developing States (SIDS) are too often on the periphery of most international decision-making bodies. Seychelles is proposing that SIDS be considered as offering unique opportunities for testing innovative policies and technologies that can benefit all humankind. In the fight against climate change, SIDS could be at the forefront of groundbreaking solutions. For example, the Global Island Partnership, co-chaired by Seychelles, Palau and Grenada, has proposed considering debt cancellation for SIDS to enable them to better prepare for climate change adaptation. A large number of SIDS have debt-togross- domestic-product ratios in excess of 100 per cent, and such debt forgiveness would give them more flexibility within their own budgets to prepare to face climate change, and thus protect some of the most environmentally sensitive zones on the planet. With regard to the high volatility of international fuel prices, SIDS can strengthen their resilience through investment in renewable energy. We warmly welcome the Sustainable Energy for All initiative championed by the Secretary-General, and we commit our support to making it a success. While the latest technology in renewable energy often represents a significant capital outlay, by developing pilot projects in SIDS we can potentially create economies based on 100 per cent renewable energy that can then be replicated on a larger scale. Finally, it is very important that consideration be given to how to better support SIDS within the international trading system. Trade-based support for SIDS could easily be established without disruption or distortion of the global f low of goods and services. Islands are particularly reliant on open access to trade with as many countries as possible. In the context of the current challenges to food security, we urge that all barriers affecting trade with islands, including the economic embargo on Cuba, be lifted, since they serve only to increase the inherent challenges associated with trading from a position of insularity. As an island State, we are aware that the ocean must connect us, not divide us. The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development has given new momentum to the concept of the blue economy. We are also very aware that the ocean will always be a shared space. As an archipelago, we are privileged to be custodians of that space. This year, for the first time in the history of the United Nations, Seychelles and Mauritius, two neighbouring SIDS, have agreed on joint management of an area of extended continental shelf of 3,000 square kilometres. That means that we are sharing the space for the benefit of our two peoples’ development. We are sharing the responsibility and the opportunity. We believe that all nations, large or small, must contribute to making this planet a better world to live in. Seychelles recently announced its intention to stand for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council in the year 2017, subject to endorsement by the African Union. We are doing so because we believe that the voices of all nations matter, whether they are large or small, rich or poor. As the smallest African nation, we keenly understand that we need to fight for Africa’s economic independence. We are committed to the ideals of the African Union, on the basis of which we attained our political freedom. Now more than ever we must invest in Africa’s economic freedom. We must create the means by which Africa’s share of trade and financial power can increase at a faster rate. We must empower African institutions. Seychelles adds its voice to the call for more investment in the African Development Bank, including by African nations themselves, by investing their reserves in it. We must also foster peace on our continent by leading efforts to find solutions to our problems, such as in Somalia, Madagascar and elsewhere in Africa. As a small island developing State, we have a greater understanding than ever of the ways in which our planet is under threat from climate change, and of the need to act now for the sake of all humankind. Most of all, as citizens of planet Earth, we understand that as individuals and as a nation our decisions have consequences beyond our borders. They have consequences for our future and for our children. These are all issues that must be weighed carefully, and it is important that all voices be considered in the debate. We thank the Assembly for giving due consideration to the voice of Seychelles.﻿Before I begin my statement, I want to express the strongest condemnation of the recent acts of incitement to hatred perpetrated against the faith of the billions of Muslims around the world and our beloved Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him. Although we can never condone violence, the international community must not remain a silent observer and should criminalize such acts, which destroy the peace of the world and endanger global security by abusing the freedom of expression. Pakistan asks that the United Nations immediately address this matter of great alarm and concern and bridge the widening rift in order to enable the comity of nations to be one again. I would like to congratulate the President on his election to his important post and to convey our appreciation to the previous President, His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, from the brotherly state of Qatar, who carried out his work with skill. I would also like to express our appreciation for the laudable work of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. We greatly appreciate his leadership in guiding the work of the Organization. It is a special privilege to be at the General Assembly today, representing the brave and courageous people of Pakistan. Globally, we face enormous challenges. But with collective efforts and commitment we can provide our people with a better future. We must work to end poverty. We must work to protect the planet and mitigate climate change. We must ensure that all people have equal rights, and we must protect the weak and vulnerable. We must pursue justice and fairness for all. We must pursue the peaceful settlement of international disputes. We must save our current and future generations from the horrors of war. I think of my own children and the generations of unborn children yet to come. They, and all the children of the world, deserve safety, stability and security. Those goals have guided me throughout my four years in office as President of Pakistan. They are the goals and principles about which I want to talk today. Pakistan’s engagement with the United Nations lies at the heart of those goals. We are proud of going above and beyond the call of duty in fulfilling our international responsibilities. Pakistan has consistently been among the top United Nations peacekeeping troop contributors for many years. Today, more than 10,000 Pakistani troops proudly wear the Blue Helmet of the United Nations in the service of our brothers and sisters around the world. Our election to the Security Council reflects our commitment to world peace. It is also a vote of confidence in Pakistan on the part of the international community.The United Nations represents our common aspirations for peace and development. However, it needs reform. The United Nations system must become more democratic and accountable, and reform should be based on consensus and democratic principles. In the last several years, Pakistan has repeatedly suffered natural calamities. The people of Pakistan appreciate the support of the United Nations and the international community in that connection. Being a democratic country, we believe that the legitimate aspirations of any people should be accommodated peacefully and in a manner consistent with the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of States. We support the rights of the Palestinian people and an independent Palestinian State. We also favour the admission of Palestine to full membership of the United Nations. There are many questions that are asked of Pakistan these days. I am not here to answer questions about Pakistan. The people of Pakistan have already answered them. The politicians of Pakistan have answered them. The soldiers of Pakistan have answered them. We have lost more than 7,000 Pakistani soldiers and policemen, and more than 37,000 civilians. We have lost our Minister for Minority Affairs, Shahbaz Bhatti, and my friend Salmaan Taseer, Governor of Punjab, our most populous province, to the actions of extremists. And I need not remind my friends here today that I bear a personal scar. On 27 December 2007, knowing that her life was under threat from the mindset that she had warned the world against, Pakistan’s first elected female leader, and my wife, Shaheed Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto, was martyred by the bullets and bombs of terrorists. Terrorism and extremism have destroyed human lives, torn the social fabric and devastated the economy. Our economy, our lives and our ability to live in the shadow of our Sufi saints and our freedom-loving forefathers have been challenged. We have responded. Our soldiers have responded. So I am not here to answer questions about Pakistan. I am here to ask some questions on behalf of the Pakistani people: on behalf of the two-year-old baby who was killed in the bombing at Lahore’s Moon Market on 7 December 2009; on behalf of Pervaiz Masih, a Christian Pakistani who was killed with six others while trying to protect Muslim Pakistanis during a bomb attack on Islamic University in Islamabad on 20 October 2009; on behalf of Commandant Siffat Gha-yoor of the Frontier Constabulary police force in Peshawar, who was martyred by militants on 4 August 2010; on behalf of the traders and businessmen in Peshawar, Quetta, Lahore and Karachi and in the dozens of marketplaces that have been ravaged by multiple bombings, over and over and over again; and, perhaps most of all, on behalf of my three children, whose mother, Shaheed Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto, was also martyred by terrorists. For more than 30 years, our doors have been open to our Afghan brothers and sisters. For many years, we were left to fend for ourselves and our Afghan guests. I remember the red carpet that was rolled out for all the dictators in our country — dictators who promised the international community the moon — while Pakistan was kept in the dark. Those dictators and their regimes are responsible for suffocating and throttling Pakistan, Pakistan’s institutions and Pakistan’s democracy. I remember the judicial execution of Pakistan’s first elected leader, Shaheed Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto. I remember the jailing of Pakistan’s elected leaders. I remember the 12 years that I myself spent in prison, and I remember the billions provided by the international community to support those dictatorships. My country’s social fabric and its very character have been altered. Our condition today is a product of dictatorship. No country and no people has suffered more in the epic struggle against terrorism than Pakistan. Drone strikes and civilian casualties on our territory add to the complexity of our battle for hearts and minds through this epic struggle. To those who say that we have not done enough, I say in all humility: please do not insult the memory of our dead and the pain of our living. Do not ask of my people what no one has ever asked of any other people. Do not demonize the innocent women and children of Pakistan, and please, stop this refrain to do more. The simplest question of all is: how much more suffering can Pakistan endure? I am sure that the international community does not want any suffering anywhere, least of all in Pakistan. We believe, in fact, that the international community is a partner. That is because it is in the common interest of all nations to work together. In Pakistan, I have helped bring about a major strategic shift in how we view working together. Within Pakistan, our democracy has brought about major changes. God willing, this will be the first civilian Government in Pakistan’s 66-year history to complete its full five-year term. In that time, Parliament has passed unprecedented reforms. We have restored the consensus 1973 Constitution. The National Assembly has enacted wide-ranging social reforms. We have established a National Commission on Women and a National Commission on Human Rights. We have established, for the first time, a truly independent election commission, to ensure free, fair and transparent elections. Our media is free, uncensored and thriving. Our civil society is flourishing under the protection of democracy. We have created the first social safety net, through the women of Pakistan, for the weak and less privileged. Millions of families have benefitted. We have aided the poor and at the same time empowered the women of our households. That safety net is called the Benazir Income Support Programme. These are the gifts of democracy. This is the dream of Shaheed Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto. The growing regional pivot in Pakistan’s foreign policy is a symbol of our democratic policy-making. In engaging with our region, we are changing the future. In China, our strategic partnership is growing from strength to strength. In Afghanistan, we have begun to engage and deepen our friendship with the entire range of the Afghan political spectrum. We believe that a sovereign, stable and secure Afghanistan is good for the Afghan people, and what is good for the Afghan people is good for Pakistan. While our hearts and homes remain open to our Afghan brothers, it is imperative that the international community support the 3 million Afghan refugees in Pakistan in their quest to return home with dignity. A brighter Afghan future will be possible only when the quest for peace is Afghan-owned, Afghan-driven and Afghan-led. We respect and support the efforts of the Government of Afghanistan for reconciliation and peace. Pakistan will support in every way possible any process that reflects Afghan national consensus. Similarly, we approach our relations with India on the basis of mutual trust. The contacts between our leadership are expanding. I was encouraged by my discussions last month in Tehran with the Prime Minister of India, whom I met with for the fifth time in four years. Our principled position on territorial disputes remains the bedrock of our foreign policy. We will continue to support the rights of the people of Jammu and Kashmir to peacefully choose their destiny in accordance with the Security Council’s long-standing resolutions on this matter. Kashmir remains a symbol of the failures, rather than the strengths, of the United Nations system. We feel that a resolution of these issues can be arrived at only in an environment of cooperation. By normalizing trade relations, we want to create a regional South Asian narrative. Such a narrative will provide an environment that will mutually benefit the countries of our region. Along this road, there are pitfalls. One of them is the tendency to respond to failure through blame. Pakistan does not blame others for the challenges it faces. We believe that we should look for a win-win solution. Regional cooperation and connectivity will bring us closer and bind us together. It will make us stakeholders in one another’s futures. Our hosting of a quadrilateral summit next month and our signing of the Afghan-Pakistan Transit Trade Agreement are proof of that commitment to regional connectivity. In Pakistan, the lesson we learned from the last 30 years is that history cannot be changed, but the future can — to a future that is brighter, more prosperous and more secure, not only for Pakistanis but for all the peoples of the region, and, indeed, the world. I must thank the member States of the European Union (EU) for recognizing the value of trade to Pakistan. We seek trade, rather than aid. By granting trade concessions to Pakistan, the EU has sent a positive message. Those concessions will help us revive the economy and fight terrorism. As we embark on this ambitious transformative experience, we are aware that there are threats and pitfalls. One of them is the expanding illegal trade of heroin. Despite the presence of international forces in Afghanistan, the size of the heroin trade has increased by 3,000 per cent in the last decade. The heroin industry is eroding the social fabric of our society. Terrorist activities within our region and, indeed, all over the world are funded and fuelled by the unrestricted production and sale of illegal drugs. Pakistan has pursued an ambitious agenda to control that menace. We are coordinating with our neighbours and will hold a conference later this year to develop a unified approach to stamping out the drug trade. My call upon this body, and especially those nations represented here that are actively engaged in the region, is: here, today, let us begin to work together. I have committed my presidency and my nation’s future to a paradigm shift, a permanent democratic future for Pakistan. It has not been easy, but nothing worth fighting for is. We long ago stopped thinking of doing what is easy. Instead, we have committed ourselves to doing what is right. In that regard, I recall the powerful words of my beloved martyred wife and my leader, Shaheed Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto, when she appeared before this body 16 years ago. Her words ring out and guide us into a new future. She said in 1996, “I dream of a third millennium in which the gap between rich and poor evaporates; in which illiteracy, hunger, malnutrition and disease are at long last conquered; in which every child is planned, wanted, nurtured and supported; and in which the birth of a girl is welcomed with the same joy as that of a boy. I dream of a millennium of tolerance and pluralism, in which people respect other people, nations respect other nations, and religions respect other religions. “That is the third millennium I see for my country and others”. (A/51/PV.20, p.4) We have made some progress towards achieving those goals. But so much remains to be done. In her memory and in the name of God Almighty, Pakistan commits to that path again today. May peace be upon all countries and their people.﻿I am greatly honoured to deliver my inaugural address to the General Assembly. Allow me to begin by congratulating the President on his election to oversee the sixty-seventh session of the Assembly, and to wish him every success in his position. His great country, Serbia, has historically enjoyed close ties with Zambia. We are therefore delighted to see him in that important seat. I would also like to thank His Excellency Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon for the steady manner in which he has continued to steer our global Organization. In Zambia we are particularly appreciative that, despite his busy schedule, the Secretary-General made time to visit our country earlier this year to undertake some important programmes. About a year ago, I ended my decade-long career as an opposition politician when the people of Zambia overwhelmingly chose to change their political leadership through a democratic and peaceful electoral transition that ushered me into office as the fifth President of the Republic. I am indebted to the people of Zambia for once again undertaking that process in a peaceful manner. It is my desire to utilize my experience at both ends of the leadership spectrum to make a worthwhile contribution to our democracy. I trust that Zambia will be able to share its lessons, as well as to learn from those with longer and even better democratic experiences. As the Assembly is aware, we still face considerable challenges with respect to meeting the basic needs of the majority of the Zambian people. Shortly before I took office, there was much publicity about our positive macroeconomic indicators, but those results did not trickle down to the average citizen. In the quest to develop at the micro level, the focus of my new Government is on enhancing agricultural productivity and access to markets for peasants and small-scale farmers, providing improved health services as close to the families as possible, improving the quality of education and facilitating access to decent housing and accommodation. As we draw closer to the 2015 deadline for meeting the Millennium Development Goals, the international community needs to maximize its efforts towards achieving all eight goals. Zambia has made steady progress in achieving some of them.That is most visible in the education sector, which has seen an increase in the net enrolment of children in primary schools, while the health sector has seen reductions in the prevalence of HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. Notwithstanding our progress in tackling communicable diseases, Zambia is also attempting to address non-communicable diseases such as hypertension, diabetes and cancer. While still considering matters related to the health sector, allow me to mention that my Government recently reviewed statistics that indicate that Zambia now has the second-highest rate of cervical cancer in the world. From 22 to 24 July, our capital, Lusaka, hosted the sixth annual Stop Cervical Cancer in Africa Conference, made up by the Forum of African First Ladies against Breast and Cervical Cancer and the African Parliamentarians and Health Ministers against Cancer. Just last year, former United States President George W. Bush travelled to Lusaka to launch the Pink Ribbon Red Ribbon campaign against breast and cervical cancer. He has since facilitated some generous contributions for the facilities now in place to fight the diseases. I would like to express the Zambian people’s deep appreciation for all those efforts. However, the challenges in the health sector and elsewhere do not end there, and by no means have we stood by with folded arms. Since my Government assumed power, in September 2011, our country has seen reasonable improvements in our economy, with an inflation rate that is down to 6.6 per cent and a gross domestic product growth rate of about 6 per cent, in spite of slow global economic trends. That has been attributed to enhancement of the investment policy framework and to improvement of the infrastructure and to human capital development. Despite those efforts, however, 60.5 per cent of the Zambian people continue to live in poverty. My Government attaches similar importance to promoting good governance. As such, we have put in place a robust anti-corruption programme with improved and increased resources, which should set a new stage for our development. In addition, for the first time, Zambia has entrusted the governance of our legislative and judicial institutions to our women. The Inspector-General of Police, the Chief Justice and the Deputy Chief Justice, the chair of the anti-corruption commission and the commissioner of the drug enforcement commission are all women. I remain convinced that they will improve our record and surpass the nation’s expectations. Our national programmes are also focused on creating employment for our youth. Despite our vast natural resources, unemployment continues to be the most pressing problem for the younger generation. We are therefore looking to improve partnership with the various United Nations agencies and the rest of the international community to harness best practices from across the world. After all, it is the youth of 2012 who have made Zambia the African football champion. Our Government has recognized that without the rule of law, social justice and an independent judicial system Zambia will not be able to attain sustainable social and economic development. As an initial step in that regard, our Government is currently undertaking a constitutional review process that is intended to ensure the primacy of the individual citizen and his liberties. We further wish to speed up the process of domesticating the international conventions that seek to bridge the gaps for minorities. Special emphasis will also be placed on improving the treatment of people with mental and physical challenges. Zambia participated in the process leading to the Rio+20 United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development. Over the years, we have learned to appreciate the transboundary nature of matters such as our common environment. I would like to express appreciation to the Government of Brazil, the Chair of the Conference and all who made tremendous efforts to bring about the final outcome document of that historic conference. We are concerned, however, that as States Members of the United Nations we missed the opportunity to develop a formidable international process for promoting sustainable development. The failure to commit any funds to the means of implementation, and indeed the little progress in outlining the sustainable development goals, has underscored the lack of ambition in addressing our deteriorating environment, worsening inequality and a growing global population that shares the Earth’s limited resources. In that instance, we failed the test for global solidarity. Today, Zambia is encouraged that three committed global citizens have been appointed as co-Chairs of the Secretary-General’s high-level panel to advise on the post-2015 global development agenda. We therefore would like to congratulate His Excellency President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia, Her Excellency President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf of Liberia and His Excellency Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom. We wish them every success as they take on that onerous task. We must support the high-level panel to help recoup the lost opportunities of the recent past. As I indicated earlier, we are still a long way from attaining the Millenium Development Goals. Discarding them entirely would be to the detriment of the poorer nations. I trust that the Secretary-General’s panel will take that into consideration. The theme for this year’s session of the General Assembly, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, is undeniably significant in the wake of the turmoil that continues to threaten international peace and security with the persistent conflict situations on the African continent in places such as the Sudan, South Sudan, Guinea-Bissau, Mali and Somalia. I therefore wish to report that our Government has in certain instances supported measures to help mitigate the humanitarian situation. I urge the international community to redouble its efforts in bringing peace to those troubled regions. Farther afield, but no less important, is the situation in Syria, which has seen the indiscriminate killing of many innocent people. There is a need for concerted efforts to utilize peaceful means, such as mediation and negotiation, to put a halt to the killings and to restore peace to the country. Humanity has again been embarrassed by the unnecessary carnage. Despite the trouble spots, Zambia remains convinced that the United Nations has since 1945 performed quite well. However, circumstances have since changed greatly, and we need only look at the sovereign representation in this Hall to prove that. It is therefore imperative that ongoing efforts to reform the United Nations be approached with renewed vigour. We are concerned that a seemingly difficult deadlock has been created in the reform process of the United Nations. In addition, I wish to reiterate that despite the slow process of the reform of the Security Council, Africa should not relent or become frustrated. We should stand up and be counted. As enshrined in the Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration, Africa must be given two permanent seats with a veto immediately exercisable and two non-permanent seats to correct the historical injustice that the continent has suffered and also adhere to the geopolitical realities of modern times. Furthermore, the Council should improve its working methods. I wish to appeal to all nations to renew their commitment and to strive for new common ground where individual national interests take a back seat. Just as many international conventions have been subject to innovative translations in the recent past, we must plan to be as flexible in creating a new United Nations, sooner rather than later. To ignore this need for transformation would be tantamount to killing the Organization.﻿It is a pleasure to be able to address the General Assembly here on this beautiful morning in New York, and I would first like to take the opportunity to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. Be assured that the Icelandic delegation will assist you in every way possible. Last year, I brought the Assembly the message that my Government would propose to our Parliament that Iceland recognize Palestine as a sovereign and independent State. I am happy to be able to stand here today and say that we have fulfilled that promise. What is more, not a single member of the Icelandic Parliament voted against the recognition of Palestine. Today, we have a fully fledged and strong formal diplomatic relationship between our two countries of Palestine and Iceland. The United Nations recently estimated that Gaza will no longer be livable by 2020 unless urgent action is taken to improve water and power supplies, health and basic education. The deplorable living conditions described in that report demonstrate only too well that the situation in Palestine is unacceptable to anyone who has respect for human dignity. I have visited Gaza myself. I met with fishermen who are not allowed to go fishing in the waters out of Gaza. As an old fisherman myself, that hurts my heart. l met children in Gaza whose lives are made impossible by poverty, violence and a blockade that others have described as an open- door prison. I have seen for myself how the human rights of the people of the West Bank are violated every day by a man-made barrier that cuts through their roads, their lands and their lives. When I was in Qalqilya, the words of a former statesman we all know rang in my head. Mr. Netanyahu, tear down this wall! I also know that the Israeli people are just like the rest of us. They want to live in peace, and they deserve it. The best way to ensure that is a two-State solution, which would benefit not only the Palestinian people but the Israeli people as well. I had the pleasure of listening to Mr. Netanyahu’s speech on Thursday (see A/67/PV.12), and I have a comment to make on behalf of the Icelandic people: Do not bomb Iran. Not this year, not next year. Do not start another war in the Middle East. At the same time, I say to President Ahmadinejad and the Iranian leadership: do not build a bomb. Let diplomacy work, not rabble-rousing or fear-mongering. Let us work for peace together. We have seen fundamental changes break forth with the Arab Spring, as demonstrated by democratic elections. Democracy only matures and gets better with time, and the Arab Spring is just beginning. In a democracy everyone has a place and a role. As friends and supporters we urge everyone to ensure that the Arab Spring will advance the rights of all people, working towards societies characterized by democracy and social justice, where our sisters in the Arab world are allowed to thrive in the same way as our brothers, and where women and men enjoy equal rights. Sadly, there is no spring in Syria. Thousands of innocent people, not least innocent children, are losing their lives because of an oppressive regime. The international community must make a stronger and better effort to seek a political and peaceful solution for the sake of those children and the people of Syria. We must also ensure that those who commit atrocities, on both sides, will at the end of the day account for their actions in an international court of law. The Syrian problem is also a wake-up call for the United Nations with regard to the Security Council. Syria has demonstrated how archaic the Council is, and how out of tune with the needs of the modern world. The truth is that the Security Council has become an obstacle to the international efforts to address and solve situations such as that in Syria. We must reform it so as to make it a tool for, not a hindrance to, progress in situations such as that in Syria this year, or as we saw last year concerning the Palestinian application. Let me also add on behalf of the Icelandic people that we must always oppose terrorism and violence in any form. I think that we should all unite in condemning the ghastly murder of the American Ambassador in Libya recently. Our embassies, our tools to work for the people for peace, must always be inviolable. Iceland is an open and embracing society, and our foreign policy is based on human rights for everyone. From the point of view of human rights, it is not acceptable that anyone is persecuted or mistreated because of her or his sexual orientation or gender identity. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights guarantees equal treatment and non-discrimination to all people, and we, the community of nations, must ensure that equal treatment in every sense of that word extends as well to sexual orientation and gender identity. Let us not forget that we all, every human being, are sparks from the same sun. Small countries can be global pioneers. Iceland demonstrated that by breaking the ice for the recognition of the Baltic States, by introducing geothermal energy as an alternative in the world’s quest for clean power, and by leading by example in the fight for gender equality. I am quite happy to relate that now, on this very morning, Iceland is embarking on a pioneering programme regarding clean renewable energy for up to 150 million Africans. Iceland has ensured funds to work with the World Bank to assist 13 countries of the East African Rift Valley to identify, research and prepare their considerable geothermal resources for utilization. That will be the greatest and most historic project Iceland ever has cooperated on with developing countries. I can express the feeling today that Iceland is very proud of it. put our expertise in geothermal energy to use in East Africa, we are also protecting the environment of our own neighbourhood, the Arctic. The ice is melting at a pace far greater than we ever anticipated. We do not need to be prophets to predict that in the Arctic vast areas will open, and sooner rather than later, for new transport routes between continents and for production of oil and gas. Of course, that may bring immense commercial benefits to the people living in and around the Arctic. But we are also acutely aware of the dangers to the fragile Arctic ecosystem and to the traditional livelihood of Arctic peoples. I tell the Assembly today that we have to tread very carefully in the Arctic. It is in the interest of all nations to ensure that the Arctic Council becomes strong enough to provide, in the future, the forum for shaping important decisions on common interests of all the Arctic peoples. Times have been pretty tough in Iceland in recent years. In the recession in Europe, we were the first country down, but we were also the first country up. If there is any lesson to be drawn from the Icelandic recovery, it is that austerity does not work on its own. Iceland certainly went through its share of austerity, but we also raised taxes, especially on the wealthiest citizens, and we used the revenue to stimulate growth and ensure that the welfare system was intact. Today, Iceland has some of the lowest unemployment in Europe and robust economic growth. The Icelandic model works. Perhaps the best sign that Iceland is back in business is the fact that while the global recession has, sadly, led to a decline in international support for developing countries, Iceland is bucking that trend. We are increasing ours substantially. Finally, the first letters of the themes that I have broached here today — Palestine, energy, the Arctic, climate change and the economy — form the word we should all hold dearest towards each other, whatever our differences, that is, peace.﻿On behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan, I would like to congratulate you, Mr. Jeremić, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, as well as to wish you every success. I also wish to express our appreciation to Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, for his skillful steering of the Assembly’s proceedings. In recent years, the world has lived through major political, social, economic and environmental upheavals. The geopolitical turmoil in the Middle East, as well as natural and man-made disasters, serve as compelling evidence indicating that the issues of security, stability and sustainable development are becoming increasingly relevant. We believe that world politics should be based on new global principles. In the twenty-first century, those principles encompass constructive multipolarity and transparency, trust and political tolerance, and the clear pre-eminence of evolutionary forms of development of the world. They should be enshrined in the core documents of the United Nations and in the entire international law system. In that context, we believe that it is fundamentally important to ensure strict adherence to the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of Member States. The threat of the proliferation of nuclear weapons and technology, along with the spectre of their acquisition and use by terrorist entities, has been one of the most daunting challenges to humankind. It is our strongly held view that the possession of weapons of mass destruction is not a guarantee of security or greater independence. Kazakhstan’s own record shows that countries reap huge benefits from the renunciation of nuclear weapons. By voluntarily giving up the world’s fourth-largest nuclear arsenal and shutting down the largest test site in Semipalatinsk, on 29 August 1991, we have won more friends and have become a more prosperous, stable and inf luential country. Kazakhstan fully supports the proposal by the Secretary-General to adopt a nuclear weapons convention. Sharing its declared goals, His Excellency Mr. Nursultan A. Nazarbayev, President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, suggested that, as an important step in that direction, the United Nations should adopt a universal declaration of a nuclear-weapon-free world. That would, undoubtedly, facilitate our advancement towards a nuclear-weapon-free world and an early adoption of a nuclear weapons convention. Kazakhstan welcomes the establishment of a constructive dialogue with the five nuclear Powers with a view towards signing a protocol on negative security assurances to the State parties to the Treaty on a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone in Central Asia. We also call for an early establishment of a nuclear- weapon-free zone in the Middle East. In that regard, we look forward to the upcoming conference in Helsinki and its positive outcomes. Kazakhstan is working on the practical implementation of a project to host an international bank of low-enriched uranium, under the auspices of the International Atomic Energy Agency, which would allow, if need be, to ensure an uninterrupted supply of nuclear fuel. It should be made clear that the bank will in no way infringe upon the inalienable right of each State party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, including the development of nuclear technology. This year, we will complete the project to enhance physical security of the former Semipalatinsk test site. We view this project, which is being implemented jointly with the United States and Russia, as our significant contribution to the global non-proliferation regime. Kazakhstan is actively involved in the fight against international terrorism and drug trafficking, within the framework of the Collective Security Treaty Organization, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-building Measures in Asia (CICA). As Chair of the Collective Security Treaty Organization, Kazakhstan consistently works to strengthen regional cooperation in this area. Special attention has been paid to the expansion of practical cooperation between the United Nations and regional arrangements, including, in particular, the Kazakhstan-based Central Asian Regional Information and Coordination Centre for the fight against the threat of drug trafficking, which is designed to enhance multilateral cooperation to counter the f low of drugs from Afghanistan. Given the increasing attention by the international community to the issue of international information security, we believe that the time has come to consider the introduction of new concepts into international law, such as electronic borders and electronic sovereignty, as well as the establishment of a cyberpolice unit. As the current Chair of the Council of Foreign Ministers of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, Kazakhstan will continue to fully support the process that aims to bring stability and peace back to the region of the Middle East and North Africa. Before I turn to regional issues, let me express our strong condemnation of the Internet video and cartoons that provocatively offend the religious feelings of Muslims. Such disgusting incitements must be stopped, because they lead to an escalation of violence by fomenting hatred between the representatives of religions, and they undermine inter-civilizational dialogue and confidence-building. The right to freedom of expression must be exercised with due responsibility. We were shocked by the tragic killing of United States diplomats in Benghazi. We condemn attacks on diplomats and diplomatic missions and call upon Governments to adhere to their international obligations to protect diplomatic representatives in their countries. We should support all efforts to find a peaceful solution to the conflict in Syria and assist in preventing a humanitarian disaster. We should also take measures to prevent any spillover of the crisis to the rest of the region. To that end, both the Syrian Government and the opposition should resort to diplomacy, not arms, and put an immediate end to the violence. The principles of sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs must be respected. It is the Syrians themselves who should determine the future of their country. We call on all nations to unite around the Syrian transition process, which should be based on dialogue and compromise, and support the activities of the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi. Kazakhstan calls for the creation of conditions to settle the Palestinian issue, including through the continuation of direct Palestinian-Israeli talks. All obstacles to the negotiation process should be removed. Kazakhstan has been and continues to be a supporter of the legitimate rights of Palestine to establish a sovereign and independent State, within the 1967 borders, and its entry into the United Nations as a full member. We have consistently advocated a peaceful, exclusively diplomatic, resolution of the situation around the Iranian nuclear programme and look forward to the continuation of constructive dialogue between Iran and all interested parties with a view to developing mutually acceptable solutions. The reconstruction of Afghanistan is an important objective of the international community that meets the aspirations of the Afghans themselves. We believe that, if our cooperation on Afghanistan is to be successful, its economic dimension should be a priority. Efforts to stabilize the situation should be bolstered by reforms aimed at sustainable development and the improvement of socioeconomic indicators in the country, its level of education and other human standards. Kazakhstan is also actively involved in multilateral cooperation to assist Afghanistan, as demonstrated by its readiness to host, in 2013 in Astana, the next conference of the Istanbul process. Almaty, the southern megalopolis of Kazakhstan, has the necessary facilities to accommodate the offices of international organizations. Sixteen organizations of the United Nations family have already set up their offices in the city. Most of them enjoy a regional status. We promote further expansion of the presence of United Nations organizations, including its humanitarian agencies, and offer to establish a United Nations centre in Almaty, in order to effectively coordinate international efforts and implement regional projects of the United Nations, including those dealing with assistance to Afghanistan. This year, we mark the twentieth anniversary of the initiative to convene the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-building Measures in Asia, announced by President Nursultan Nazarbayev at the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, on 5 October 1992 (see A/47/PV.24). The anniversary session and the fourth meeting of CICA Foreign Ministers, held in Astana on 12 September, have become important milestones in the evolution of that Asian forum. Currently, the Conference brings together 24 countries that occupy over 90 per cent of the territory of Asia, where half of the world’s population now resides. As a platform for dialogue, CICA has an important role to play in efforts to ensure peace, security and stability in Asia. Kazakhstan urges that close attention be paid to the expansion of the trade, investment and transit transport capacity of least developed countries, landlocked developing countries (LLDCs) and small island developing States. To advance the interests of these groups of countries, Kazakhstan, together with the United Nations, organized, from 12 to 14 September in Almaty, the fourth meeting of LLDC Trade Ministers and the high-level global thematic meeting on international trade, trade facilitation and aid for trade. Today, the whole world is facing new challenges to global energy security. Central Asia has great potential to become a global energy centre. The development of energy resources is a priority for the Republic of Kazakhstan. In our vision, the future of the region lies in the development of the oil and gas pipeline system to deliver our hydrocarbon resources to Europe and Asia. As a follow-up to the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development and to draw the attention of the international public to the issues of renewable sources of energy, Kazakhstan has decided to seek the nomination of its capital, Astana, as the host of the international exhibition Expo 2017 on the subject of “Energy for the Future”. We count on fellow Member States to support our bid. As one of the pilot countries selected from among States Members of the United Nations, Kazakhstan will actively promote the development of draft sustainable development goals for the period beyond 2015. Kazakhstan is not only in a position to ensure its own food security; it is also willing to contribute to global food security. Intercultural dialogue is an important prerequisite for peace and security. To promote such dialogue, Kazakhstan put forward an initiative to proclaim an International Decade for the Rapprochement of Cultures 2013-2022, which was adopted at the conclusion of the thirty-sixth session of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization General Conference, in November 2011. Kazakhstan attaches special importance to the protection of human rights and has announced its bid for membership in the Human Rights Council for the period 2012-2015. If elected, Kazakhstan will participate, with a full sense of responsibility, in the proceedings of that important human rights body, on the basis of an open, impartial, non-politicized and mutually respectful dialogue between the Member States of the United Nations. Last March, the Republic of Kazakhstan celebrated the twentieth anniversary of its membership in the United Nations. All these years, we have consistently stood for an inclusive, transparent and effective Organization. We strongly believe that it is only by uniting our efforts that we can make real progress in addressing the global issues and challenges facing humanity. We therefore call for joint efforts to seek solutions to common problems for the benefit of future generations and our common planet Earth.﻿Allow me to begin by congratulating Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I am convinced that with his leadership and drive, this lofty institution will be capable of facing the numerous challenges that will arise in the next 12 months. I also wish to express my gratitude to his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser. I join others in congratulating him on his work and wish him all the best in his new endeavours. Spain believes that the United Nations has a fundamental role to play. That is why I wished to participate in this general debate, the first since I took the oath of office as President of the Government of Spain. It is always an honour for a Head of Government to address the General Assembly. I do so today on behalf of a country that is committed to the international community and to the pursuit of joint solutions to the problems we face. The result of that commitment is our desire to serve once again in the Security Council for the period 2015- 2016. In my statement, I shall refer to the reasons for Spain’s resolve to work in the Council with an open and constructive spirit, committed to peace and international security, the promotion and protection of human rights, and the search for sustainable development for all. In addition to the serious economic and financial situation, the international community is facing today more numerous and more complicated challenges than ever before. The Organization and its General Assembly are key if we are to confront them. Year after year, we discuss those problems here and their possible solutions. For that reason, I believe that we should ask ourselves today if we have improved since last year. While it might seem otherwise, I believe we have. In one year, we have witnessed the unbreakable will of the Arab citizens to consolidate democratic systems in their countries. In Spain, we went through a difficult but successful transition to democracy. Hence, we know that the road is not and will not be easy. Our experience can be useful for all Arab countries that are going through transition processes. I reaffirm our commitment to building open, inclusive and democratic societies whose institutions satisfy the yearnings for dignity and for the development of its citizens. In those processes, there is no room for movements that promote violence, whatever its justification. Any attack or aggression against people or institutions is unacceptable and deserves our most full-throated condemnation. Last year, we also dedicated our efforts to finding solutions to the crisis in the Horn of Africa, and especially to the situation in Somalia. The difficulties persist, but Somalia is advancing towards normality. Cooperation in the fight against piracy in the Indian Ocean is stronger than ever, and during our recent presidency of the Contact Group on Piracy off the Coast of Somalia, we moved forward in the search of an international response to that criminal phenomenon. Similarly, humanitarian efforts in that region have allowed for an improvement of the situation. Four months ago, Spain and the World Food Programme (WFP) signed an agreement to locate the largest food storage facility in the world in the Canary Islands. The WFP facility will allow faster and more efficient responses to food emergencies on the African continent. Afghanistan continues moving forward in the direction of stability — a road that Spain has pursued together with the Afghan people for more than a decade. In that effort, we have bequeathed resources, infrastructures and, unfortunately, the life of many of our fellow citizens. My country will continue to contribute to the development of Afghanistan and its search for much-needed stability and security. This year, in Rio de Janeiro, we reaffirmed our common vision in favour of an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable future. Since their conception, Spain has been committed to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) with the largest cooperation programme in its history, valued at almost $1 billion, implemented through the Spain-United Nations Development Programme MDG Achievement Fund. Negotiations are under way to set new goals for sustainable development and to bring the institutional structure in step with that commitment. Spain will maintain an active and constructive presence in the process. The fight against international impunity has also seen important advances this year. The International Criminal Court initiated its first case against a Head of State, demonstrating that the international community is closer than ever to ending impunity for serious crimes. I would like to reiterate today the call for the universal ratification of the Rome Statute. I would like to make special mention of the valuable and increasing role that Latin America has played in the development of the multilateral system. The achievements and progress that the region has attained in the consolidation of democracy, economic growth and regional integration are reflected in its greater international presence. Latin America has shown its potential by strengthening the multilateralism promoted by the Organization. Spain is proud to share in that spirit at the Ibero-American summits and will be hosting this year’s summit in Cádiz, Spain. That forum reflects the Ibero-American community’s wager on the promise of dialogue, equality and mutual respect, with our eyes firmly set on the future. I believe that those steps forward, among others, attest to an encouraging year, despite its difficulties. It is proof that the multilateral system is responding to the present crisis and promoting respect for and the active protection of human rights, as well as the presence and participation of women in all areas regions. But, of course, there are problems on which there has been little or no progress at all or that have emerged throughout the present year. Those problems deserve as much if not more of our attention in the 12 months that lie ahead. First of all, I would like to mention the crisis in Syria. A year ago, in the General Assembly, an urgent appeal was made to the Syrian regime to halt the abuses and crimes against its people. Despite the international community’s efforts, the situation has not ceased to deteriorate. Thousands of innocent victims, the unbearable suffering of the civilian population and the serious risk of the conflict expanding to neighbouring countries compel us to act. Today, I reiterate the call to end all violence in Syria and urge President Al-Assad to accept his responsibility and make way for a political process that will allow a peaceful resolution to the conflict. We support the efforts of the Joint Special Representative, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, to reach this goal. The international community, the United Nations, the League of Arab States and the European Union continue to be prepared, through different mechanisms, to come to Syria’s aid. In this uncertain regional scenario, Lebanon has so far managed to keep itself on the margin of the spiral of violence, an achievement that has been reached in good measure thanks to the contingent of United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, in which Spain is an active participant. Another year has passed without progress in the Middle East peace process. We defend the idea that the solution to the conflict in the Middle East lies in the existence of two States, the Israeli State and the Palestinian State, living in peace and security. Any delay in achieving that goal leads to growing frustration that will affect the rest of the world. The international community, and, above all, the actors involved must have the courage to adopt the measures and decisions needed to achieve that comprehensive, just and durable peace that responds to the legitimate yearnings of both peoples. My Government, committed to the goal of peace, is convinced that the creation of a viable Palestinian State is a key element in the solution of the conflict. It will bring beneficial effects for the security and welfare of Israel, for the normalization of regional relations and, finally, for the international community as a whole. Until then, the parties must avoid endangering the viability of a two-State solution. The situation in Mali and the entire Sahel region is particularly serious. The humanitarian crisis has been aggravated by political instability and an armed revolt, which has deteriorated into terrorist movements that have caused considerable harm to the population in northern Mali. Spain unreservedly condemns violence and supports the efforts of the United Nations, the African Union, and the Economic Community of West African States to reach a solution to the crisis. Those efforts must count on the decisive support of the countries of the region, whose people also endure insecurity caused by the situation. And above all, the process must be led by the people of Mali themselves, who need to overcome their institutional crisis and re-establish the territorial integrity of their country. On other matters, I would like to highlight the efforts of the international community in general and of the E3+3 Group in particular to relaunch conversations with Iran with the goal of eliminating all doubts raised by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) regarding its nuclear enrichment programme. Those conversations are sustained by the desire to reach a political and diplomatic solution and are an opportunity that we hope all actors involved will take advantage of. We reiterate our appeal to Iran to comply with the relevant resolutions without delay and to ratify and observe the additional protocol of the IAEA’s comprehensive safeguards agreement. I would also like to express our support for the Six- Party Talks as a framework for finding a diplomatic solution to the crisis raised by the nuclear programme of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. We consider that the country must put a stop to its nuclear activities with military aims in a complete and verifiable manner, and it must comply with all Security Council resolutions on the matter and respect its commitments to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. This year we have moved towards a more peaceful, just and sustainable world. However, as reflected in the cases I have just mentioned, much remains to be done. To achieve this, Spain will continue to work with the United Nations, for we believe that only through a concerted effort of the international community can we find solutions. My country’s wish to serve on the Security Council in 2015 and 2016 responds precisely to the conviction that in the Council Spain can continue playing an active role in the search for joint solutions to common problems. That conviction is supported by Spain’s accomplishments to date, by our demonstrated commitment to multilateralism and by the initiatives led by our country in the search for international understanding and sustainable development. Spain will continue to contribute, to the best of its ability, to peacekeeping operations by providing troops and through the United Nations operational field support base at Quart de Poblet, in Spain. Our commitment to the United Nations will remain firm, as we actively participate in those initiatives that we have been supporting in the past few years because we believe that they are key to achieving the future we desire. Disarmament and non-proliferation must be shared objectives for the entire international community. We believe that it is necessary to reactivate the Conference on Disarmament with an ambitious programme of work. Spain also supports renewing the General Assembly mandate to proceed with the negotiations of an arms trade treaty. We will continue to work for a solid, effective and legally binding document that reflects the defence of human rights and international humanitarian rights. As a member of the Human Rights Council, we will continue to defend the undeniable link between respect for human rights and peace and security in the world. We will also continue to work towards a universal moratorium on the death penalty. My country will continue to support negotiations within the United Nations of a comprehensive convention on international terrorism. Terrorism is a vicious trait that unfortunately Spain knows very well. I would like to take a moment today to remember and pay tribute to all the victims of terrorism. In July, a High-Level Conference on Victims of Terrorism was held in Madrid in the framework of the Global Counterterrorism Forum. There we reiterated that victims can plan an important role in the complete delegitimization, in both social and moral terms, of terrorism. I wish to acknowledge the support of the Secretary-General and of the President of the General Assembly in this task. We will continue to promote the goals of UN-Women, after a first year full of work and results. In that regard, Spain, which has been the biggest donor to this entity during its first year, maintains its commitment to equality between men and women and to the efforts to put an end to violence against women and girls. My country is a firm defender of dialogue and the use of peaceful means to resolve controversies. For that reason, next Friday, together with Morocco, we will present an initiative to promote mediation and to develop national and local capacities in the Mediterranean basin. The initiative will be the first embodiment in that region of resolution 65/283 and of the work of the Secretary-General and the Group of Friends of Mediation. Spain maintains its active commitment to a just, enduring and mutually acceptable political solution to the dispute in Western Sahara, a solution that provides for the self-determination of the Saharan people in accordance with the principles and objectives of the Charter of the United Nations. As a member of the Group of Friends, Spain firmly supports the work of the Secretary-General, his Personal Envoy and the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara. Between countries that are friends and allies, as is the case between Spain and the United Kingdom, a direct and sincere dialogue should make it possible to overcome any differences. Therefore, I would like to call upon the United Kingdom to renew the bilateral dialogue on the decolonization of Gibraltar in accordance with the parameters indicated by the United Nations and enshrined in the Brussels Declaration of 1984. We have already lost too many years. The efforts of the Member States of the United Nations will not be sufficient if they are not accompanied by the necessary adaptation of the United Nations to the current world. The Secretary-General has launched a process aimed at reforming the Organization, which my country is following closely. I would like to reiterate that Spain supports his efforts, and we call upon the rest of the Member States to continue their open dialogue on his proposals, analysing them without any prejudices and showing sufficient courage to break with the status quo when necessary. In that regard, I should like to reiterate our support for the reforms of the Secretary-General in the area of peacekeeping operations. Likewise, Spain is a strong driving force behind the Delivering as One initiative, which is an essential undertaking aimed at modernizing the United Nations system, improving its effectiveness and efficiency in the fight against poverty and inequality, and thereby making it possible to do more with less. Proof of Spain’s commitment to that initiative is the fact that my country has been the largest donor thereto, providing more than half of the total funding. Lastly, the Security Council must also adapt, as quickly as possible, to the realities of the twenty- first century, which are very different from those that existed when it was created. In the coming months, we will continue to be open to dialogue on this issue, and we hope that, under the leadership of President Jeremić, we will be able to find common ground among the different positions on the issue on which we can build a new Security Council that is more effective, inclusive, representative and responsible to the General Assembly. We are facing many challenges. Spain is strongly determined to contribute to those efforts so that in 12 months, when we meet here again, the list of problems before us is shorter and we can have a United Nations that is more effective and efficient than it was a year previously. The United Nations will continue to be a guarantor of international peace and security, and a driving force for the protection of human rights and the promotion of sustainable development for our future and that of our children. The General Assembly can count on Spain to participate in that endeavour with the same determination as always.﻿Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to express my delegation’s support to you in discharging your duties I would also like to express my sincere appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for the excellent way in which he conducted the work of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Secretary-General for his report on the work of the Organization (A/67/1). Owing to its geographical location and historical ties with its neighbouring countries, Cyprus has been closely following and has taken particular interest in the developments in the wider Middle East and North Africa over the past 18 months. The sovereignty of peoples was and remains a fundamental principle of the Organization and the functioning of States. As the international community, we should, in our opinion, address events there through that prism, respecting the right of each people to determine its own future. During that period, we witnessed transformations in Tunisia, Egypt, Yemen and Libya. We stand by those peoples through that transition and encourage their efforts on the difficult road to consolidating democracy and the rule of law. We look forward to new structures that are inclusive of women and minorities and that create the conditions for the further participation of citizens in political life. It is with great sadness, however, that we are witnessing the loss of human lives in the region. Increased violence in Syria continues, and the potential spillover effects to neighbouring countries are a great cause for concern. We strongly condemn the violence and the massacres of innocent civilians in Syria and call for their immediate cessation. There is undoubtedly a humanitarian crisis there that needs urgent attention. Recent consultations in the Security Council have emphasized that. The Republic of Cyprus stands ready to contribute to international efforts to manage the crisis, in particular as the fire is raging just outside our door. We remain committed to respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Syria and emphasize that the continued violence and its recent intensification underscore the need for a political solution. In that respect, I join the rest of the international community in expressing our unequivocal support for the newly appointed Joint Special Representative for Syria, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, with the sincere hope that he will help bring the conflict to an end. Against that background of significant changes in the region, the Middle East peace process continues to be at an impasse. It is imperative to resume negotiations that can eventually lead to the implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions and the establishment of a free and independent Palestinian State on the basis of the pre-1967 borders. At the same time, the solution must address Israel’s legitimate security concerns. No viable solutions can be achieved in the absence of political dialogue. As you, Mr. President, wisely proposed upon your election, the “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means” is the overarching purpose of the United Nations. It nevertheless also remains a timeless challenge. I can personally attest to that. Cyprus still faces the consequences of foreign intervention, namely, the Turkish invasion and occupation. More than one third of my country’s territory is still under the military occupation of Turkey, a fellow Member State of the Organization. Our participation at the United Nations requires engagement in the struggle for the protection of human rights. We share a commitment to the rule of law and are proponents of peace and security in the world. Yesterday, we supported the Declaration of the High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels (resolution 67/1), affirming the sovereign equality of States and respect for their territorial integrity. Yet Turkey, after invading Cyprus in 1974, has continued to occupy the northern part of the island for the past 38 years, maintaining a strong military force and continuing the mass transfer of settlers from Turkey, pursuant to its policy for the demographic alteration of my country’s population. Turkey continues to violate the human rights and fundamental freedoms of tens of thousands of displaced persons, including usurping their property and violating the rights of the besieged and those who have lost their loved ones and continue to search for them. Since the assumption of my duties as President of the Republic of Cyprus in 2008, I took the initiative, in collaboration with the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, to end the stalemate and to start a new process of direct negotiations with the then leader of the Turkish Cypriot community, Mr. Mehmet Ali Talat, on the basis of a bicommunal and bizonal federation with a singly sovereignty, citizenship and international personality. We came to an agreement on those conditions with Mr. Talat. The process began under the auspices of the Secretary-General and is being facilitated by his good offices mission on the island. I believe that the Turkish Cypriot side, under Mr. Talat, shared the vision of a solution, for the benefit of all Cypriots, to terminate the occupation and establish the conditions for lasting peace and security on the island. Despite the difficulties posed by the occupation, at the time we achieved convergence in a number of important areas. Since 2010, however, despite committing itself in the presence of the Secretary-General to continuing the talks from where they had left off, the current Turkish Cypriot leadership, under Mr. Eroğlu, has broken that joint commitment and has retracted from the agreement worked out with the previous Turkish Cypriot leader. In addition, since last March, the Turkish Cypriot leadership, with Turkey’s support, has abandoned the negotiations in response to the assumption of the presidency of the Council of the European Union by the Republic of Cyprus. For our part, we remain committed to Security Council resolution 2026 (2011), which provides that an accord on the internal aspects of the Cyprus issue must be achieved before convening an international conference on the international aspects of the matter with the consent of the two communities. We remain unchanged in our commitment to returning to the negotiating table; to continuing the negotiations in good faith; and to respecting in practice, not just in words, the agreed basis for the solution of a bicommunal and bizonal federation with a single sovereignty, citizenship and international personality and political equality, as defined in the relevant Security Council resolutions. We are grateful to the Secretary-General, who has willingly devoted his time and effort and invested in that process, despite the many challenges that this international Organization faces. I call on the Turkish Cypriot leadership to return to the table and to share our vision for a united and peaceful Cyprus. A solution to the Cyprus problem requires the support of all concerned parties. Turkey’s positive contribution and practical support for efforts on the part of the two communities to take the process forward is crucial. Yet Turkey has instead been pursuing “gunboat diplomacy”, with frequent displays of military strength around Cyprus. Turkey’s alarming behaviour has been escalating since September 2011, when Cyprus undertook exploration activities in its exclusive economic zone, based on its rights under international law and particularly the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Turkey has neither signed the aforementioned Convention nor abided by relevant customary international law. On the contrary, Turkey has carried out unilateral actions with respect to sea areas that are situated patently beyond any reasonable geographical or legal limit of its continental shelf and potential exclusive economic zone and that clearly fall within the exclusive economic zone and continental shelf of the Republic of Cyprus. Turkey is behaving as if the Republic of Cyprus did not exist on the map of the region. Such behavior, by a country seeking to become a member State of the European Union and supposedly seeking to maintain zero problems with its neighbours, cannot and should not be tolerated by the international community. I call on Turkey, before this Assembly, to cease its provocative behaviour. I repeat at the same time that in a reunified Cyprus the natural resources, including hydrocarbons, will be the common wealth of all Cypriots — both Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots alike. The deadline set by the international community for the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals in 2015 is nearing. We have seen much progress thus far but much more remains to be done, as poverty and hunger persist. In looking beyond 2015, we need to recommit ourselves to a solid new agenda aimed at poverty eradication, inclusive economic and social development, environmental sustainability and peace and security for all.﻿Allow me to congratulate the President on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I assure him of the full support and cooperation of the Jamaican delegation. I would also like to place on record my delegation’s appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for his invaluable guidance of the work of the Assembly during its sixty- sixth session. I also thank the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, and the staff of the Secretariat for their dedication and hard work in serving Member States. There is a tale of a young woman from a rural village in Jamaica who was approached by a political candidate seeking to represent her community. “What is it you want most from your representatives?” the candidate asked. The young woman considered the question for a moment. Slowly and thoughtfully she replied, “All I want is an opportunity. I want you to provide me and my family with a living environment in which I can work, contribute and prosper. Most of all, I want you to provide for my family an environment that is safe and secure”. For hundreds of years, our respective peoples have looked to their leaders with great expectations. They elected Governments that they felt could provide them with the greatest sense of well-being and security. Historically and to the present day, they looked to heads of State and Government to provide them, their families, their communities and ultimately their respective nations with leadership and direction that foster that all-important sense of well-being and of feeling secure. Over time, across the world, there has been an increasing sense of impatience and agitation born of a sense of growing global insecurity. Accordingly, the United Nations agenda has expanded its focus to address the multifaceted challenges of food security, climate change, global pandemics and the global economic and financial crisis. We have already witnessed citizens from several nations spring into action with demands for change. Others chose to occupy various spaces in protest. In the light of that reality, many of those here — indeed, many of us as leaders — stand as buffers between apathy and anarchy. The theme for this year’s session of the Assembly, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, is most appropriate and timely, given current events in a number of countries and regions that pose a threat to international peace and security. It reflects the call by that young woman, who simply asked her representative to provide for her and hers an environment that is safe and secure. Yet her request is not as simple as it appears. The insecurity, impatience and unease that have emerged worldwide are explosive accelerants. They emerge from the heartbreaking scourge of poverty that was so aptly described by the Jamaican national hero, Marcus Mosiah Garvey, who reminded us that poverty is “a hellish state to be in. It is no virtue. It is a crime. To be poor is to be hungry without possible hope of food; to be sick without hope of medicine; to be tired and sleepy without a place to lay one’s head; to be naked without the hope of clothing; to be despised and comfortless”. We must seek to rid ourselves of the conditions that lead to poverty. We must pursue social and economic policies that will ensure social equity and justice for our people and increase their well-being and sense of security. That can be achieved only if we, as Member States, work together in good faith to secure the sustainable future we agreed to at Rio de Janeiro. Let us create the future we want, and let us put our people first. The global economy continues to be beset by uncertainty. That is compounded by the lingering negative effects of the financial and economic crises. The global shocks have affected all our peoples. They threaten our communities, weaken our families and challenge individuals everywhere, regardless of hemisphere or region or whether they live in so-called developed or developing countries or in the north, south, east or west. Some have fewer options than others. That is a vicious circle of insecurity. We must not forget that a significant proportion of the world’s poorest citizens live in middle-income countries. That diverse group includes both large developing economies and small island developing States, such as those in the Caribbean. Many of us face common challenges. Several are highly indebted and extremely vulnerable to external shocks and natural disasters. We face significant obstacles in our efforts to spur economic recovery and growth. We are hampered by the volatility of energy and food prices, decreases in export commodity prices, and weak capital inf lows. Increasing food prices create untold hardships for many of our people, particularly the most vulnerable in our societies. Small countries need greater support in order to build resilience to economic and environmental shocks. I come to the Assembly today from such a nation. Jamaica is a nation small in size but enormous in spirit — a nation with a people whose speed defies the laws of physics, whose musical messages have inspired positive and revolutionary global change and whose minds have given the world myriad solutions in areas that include science, law and medicine. Yet many nations like Jamaica have great possibility and potential that are not reflected in, or ref lective of, their current economic indicators. Reforms in global economic governance, including of the international financial institutions, are required in order to take into account the need of small and vulnerable economies for special and differential treatment. Refocusing financial f lows in the development agenda will also go a long way in helping to bolster our natural resilience and resolve. We commend the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development on the work it has done over the last 48 years to advance the trade and development agenda and assist developing countries. There is still much to be done, and we look forward to working with the full range of development partners. Women and children make up one particularly vulnerable group of our world. What we call external shocks cause real and serious dislocation in their daily lives. Too many mothers have to face tough choices to meet their basic needs. Too many children are subjected to violence and abuse. Children, especially girls, are being used as pawns for economic gain, including through human trafficking and other exploitive actions. Human trafficking is a dastardly threat to the welfare of our women, girls and boys. Our ancestors fought for our freedom. It is disgraceful that at this juncture of world history we should see the emergence of a form of modern-day slavery that allows women, girls and boys to be traded as chattel. Many vulnerable young women are deceived and lured away by attractive offers to get them and their families out of poverty. They then find themselves in a strange land, with no support, no identity and no hope of returning home; sold into modern-day slavery, their very bodies used as a currency of exchange. Jamaica is resolute in its commitment to strengthening local and national programmes to eliminate violence against women and children. At the same time, I call on the international community to take bold action to address this scourge. Issues that affect women and children must be central to decision-making processes. We look forward to continued collaboration with UN-Women and the international community to help break this cycle of exploitation and insecurity. The devastating impact of HIV/AIDS and non-communicable diseases also propels the cycle of global insecurity. Jamaica is cognizant of the considerable investment that the United Nations and the international community have made in the fight against HIV/AIDS. That support has allowed developing countries, including Jamaica, to make a difference in the lives of those affected. Nevertheless, inadequate human and financial resources constrain our ability to scale up testing and treatment, as well as to implement programmes for increasing awareness and reducing the risk of new infections. The developing world and lower-income populations are hardest hit by the impact of non-communicable diseases (NCDs). The high social and developmental costs of NCDs demand concerted policy action at the national and international levels. We must implement the outcomes of the High-level Meeting on NCDs held last year. We are on the threshold of 2015, the target date for the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. The results thus far have been uneven. We need to reinvigorate Millennium Development Goal 8, the Global Partnership for Development. I wish to underscore the situation associated with our middle-income country status. Country categorizations should not serve as obstacles to delivering support to the world’s poorest and most vulnerable. We urge that middle-income countries not be pushed to the margins of the development agenda, nor be put on the fringe of the development assistance provided by the international community. A review of the factors used by the relevant multilateral agencies in measuring a country’s wealth is urgently needed. We are supportive of the proposals put forward by the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean for an alternative but complementary approach to the criterion of per capita income in the allocation of financing for development. I now turn to global political developments. The cycle of insecurity transcends borders. Recent events have called attention to the fragility of peace and security in many parts of the globe, and underscore the importance of respect for the rule of law, democracy and good governance. Jamaica reiterates its adherence to the principles of the United Nations Charter, multilateralism and the inviolability of diplomatic institutions in the conduct of relations among States. We will continue to add our voice to the ongoing work at the United Nations to secure human rights, justice, social equity and the peaceful settlement of disputes. Transnational crime, narco-trafficking and the illicit trade in small arms and ammunition are major components of the cycle of insecurity. They continue to endanger lives, undermine the rule of law and fuel violent crime. We remain resolute in our call for encouraging partnerships in fighting this scourge, and will continue to work with all delegations to achieve a comprehensive and robust arms trade treaty. The conflict in Syria poses a real threat to international peace and security. We are deeply concerned at the escalating internal violence and the resulting loss of life. It is our conviction that this conflict can still be resolved through political and diplomatic means. We continue to urge the leaders of Israel and the Palestinian Authority to resume negotiations as early as possible, based on the two-State solution and relevant United Nations resolutions. Those resolutions address Israel’s right to exist within secure borders, as well as the aspirations of the Palestinian people to self- determination and statehood. We must ensure that the United Nations remains relevant to its membership through a process of reform of its organs, including the Security Council. Negotiations should proceed urgently towards a satisfactory conclusion. More than two years after the devastating earthquake, Haiti’s plight remains deeply troubling. We are concerned that only a disappointing fraction of the pledges made have been disbursed, and yet the humanitarian situation in Haiti is perilous. As a close friend and neighbour of Haiti, with strong historical ties, I encourage members of the international community to make good on their commitments. The Haitian people need our continued support. The long-standing trade and economic embargo against Cuba, another close neighbour and friend of Jamaica, has had severe negative effects on its growth and development. Jamaica reiterates its call for an end to the embargo against Cuba and the extraterritorial measures aimed at extending its reach to include third countries. Jamaica continues to work with our partners to erect a memorial at the United Nations to honour the victims of slavery and the trans-Atlantic slave trade. We are grateful for the generous contributions received to date to erect the permanent memorial, and reiterate the call for continued financial support. Fifty years ago, upon gaining our independence, Jamaica committed itself to the aims of the United Nations and fully accepted the responsibilities of membership. Our national pledge commits each and every Jamaican to stand up for justice, brotherhood and peace and to play our part in advancing the welfare of the whole human race. We will not resile from that commitment. Let us work together to end the cycle of global insecurity. Let us provide an opportunity for every man, woman and child to fulfil their God-given potential. I leave members with the words of Robert Nesta “Bob” Marley, who sang: “One love, one heart”. I hope that the peoples of the world will one day live together in peace, love, security, unity and prosperity.﻿It is a great pleasure for me to address the representatives here today and to express my congratulations to Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, and to his cabinet as well. I also thank his predecessor, Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for his excellent work during his presidency. In addition, I extend my appreciation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his work for the good and well-being of Member States and their peoples. It is an honour and a pleasure for me to speak from this rostrum about current issues of great importance to my country and the world. It is a pleasure especially because Burundi is right now at a decisive and historic turning point. What I have to say Pierre Nkurunziza, President of the Republic of Burundi, also spoke of last year at the Assembly’s sixty-sixth session. A major turn of events has placed a special stamp on our country’s history since independence. Democratically elected institutions now serve out the terms entrusted to them by the people in peace, and then, at the end of their tenure, give way to others, also democratically elected. Over two years ago, in 2010, Burundi organized democratic elections for the second time since 2005, from which were born our current republican institutions, which operate with legitimacy in a restored climate of peace and security. That development gives us great satisfaction, and the Burundian people have every reason to be proud of it. Indeed, whereas my country faced crises on multiple fronts, under which the people suffered economic depletion, social degradation and political discord, seriously demoralizing them, those same people are now steadily getting back on their feet and rediscovering hope as they look to the future. That positive trend demonstrates conclusively a complete break with the spirals of violence and instability that have for decades been our ongoing lot. Thanks to the collective efforts, strength and spirit of the Burundian people, as well as to the support of our partners, I can confirm here and now that the policies begun in 2005 and carried on after 2010 have produced most encouraging results in many areas. As I said earlier, in the political sphere our country has held democratic elections twice in the recent past, in 2005 and 2010. We have established democratic institutions — the executive branch, the National Assembly and the Senate — all of which are representative of the various elements of Burundi’s population, in conformity with the ethnic and gender balances agreed to in the Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Agreement, which have been incorporated into the Constitution governing Burundians today. I take pleasure in pointing out that our Senate’s composition shows a gender parity such that out of all senates worldwide Burundi’s places second in women’s representation. That is clearly a significant and bold step forward, because, rather than settle for the minimum set out in the Constitution, our Government voluntarily made the deliberate choice to go further, to ensure that the female majority in the population is represented meaningfully in the country’s institutions. In its determined drive towards change, the Government subsequently established an independent national commission on human rights and an ombudsman’s office. It initiated a zero-tolerance policy designed to eradicate corruption and misuse of public funds, a scourge that has ravaged Burundian society for several years, and also set up adequate enforcement mechanisms. We still have a way to go, as is the case in many other countries, but the structures to get there are firmly in place. In October 2011 the Government adopted a national good governance and anti-corruption strategy for 2011-2015. Also, Government officials, including those at high levels, have signed performance contracts, laying the groundwork for a culture of accountability, which is essential to democratic systems. The members of the Administration and high-level officials are periodically evaluated based on those contracts. If they live up to agreed performance standards they are retained, but otherwise they are replaced. The Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Agreement calls for transitional justice mechanisms. We are working towards a transitional justice system that carefully and rigorously balances national reconciliation requirements and those of justice. We need a mechanism that banishes the demons of the past and at the same time affords no opportunity for any type of vengeance or the settling of old scores; in other words, a mechanism to establish the truth and to ensure that there is no recurrence of the acts in question. National consultations were held in 2009, and the related report has been made public. A technical committee was established with a mandate to pave the way for a truth and reconciliation commission. That committee proposed a methodology in its final report, which was submitted through the proper channels in October 2011. The Government had hoped to establish the commission in January 2012, but that decision had to be postponed for technical reasons owing to the fact that further consultations were required, along with specific proposals on the commission’s mandate and composition, the selection criteria for its members and matters related to its operating budget. Besides those achievements in the political sphere, the Government undertook a vast social construction project that yielded positive results. Measures providing free education for children of primary school age enabled millions of little Burundians to attend school, while free medical care for pregnant women, nursing mothers and children under five years of age significantly improved maternal and child health care and will help us to reach the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in that regard in the near future. Also, with the participation of the population in communal labour, 2,024 schools, 80 health centres and more than 2,000 potable-water wells were built in just three years. With respect to socioeconomic development, Burundi is continuing to improve its basic economic infrastructure, including the management of public finances, an improved business climate and good governance. In addition, significant progress has been made with respect to the gradual and orderly return of displaced persons and the repatriation of refugees. All those efforts have taken place within the Strategic Framework for Growth and Poverty Reduction, Vision 2025 and the MDGs. Of the total of 800,000 counted in the census of 2000-2001, all have returned to our country with the exception of 37,000 from the Mtabila camp, who are expected to return by 31 December. Many internally displaced persons have already returned to their homes. We have just finished a profiling survey of those who remain on site, which, in the light of their expressed wishes, will determine the most appropriate and humane resolution of their situation. The social and economic reintegration of former combatants has yet to be completed and represents a genuine security risk. While it is true that there have been a few isolated instances of insecurity here and there in the country, that is not unique to Burundi. Banditry, which has taken place on a small scale in Burundi, also occurs elsewhere, in many countries. The Government is determined to stamp out all forms of criminality, including armed robbery. It considers security the sine qua non of all social and economic progress, which is why it has embarked on reforms in that regard. The professionalization of the defence and security forces and of the justice system to guarantee the rights of both citizens and foreigners on our soil are among the measures that the Government has written into its programme and will continue to promote as the country moves forward. In the area of regional integration, an intragovernmental committee has been established to develop a national strategy for regional integration, with the goal of enabling Burundi to take best advantage of its participation in subregional entities and reducing the deficits and disadvantages that stem from belonging to non-regional organizations. The Strategic Framework for Growth and Poverty Reduction has reached an advanced stage. The Government and the Вurundi configuration of the Peacebuilding Commission have made visible progress in a number of areas, as indicated in the outcome of the fifth review of the Peacebuilding Commission, issued on 26 April 2011. Positive results were noted in the areas of political and institutional peacebuilding issues, good governance, human rights, economic issues, vulnerable groups and regional integration, as described earlier. After this brief survey of the internal situation of my country, I now turn to Burundi’s role and position regarding certain international matters. With respect to Burundi’s participation in peacekeeping operations, I would like to say that Burundi was one of the two countries to take part in the African Union Mission in Somalia, and that it is pleased with the work accomplished by its soldiers in that context. As the Secretary-General has already done, my country commends the adoption, in August, of the provisional Constitution of Somalia by the National Constituent Assembly in Mogadishu. It congratulates and encourages the Somali delegates and leaders with respect to the new developments under way, aimed at normalizing that country’s situation, and to their commitment to ending the transition period and establishing new political institutions that represent all Somalis. Burundi stands ready to share with the Somalis our experience on the question of national reconciliation and in training a national republican army. With respect to the security situation in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi, along with the other members of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region, confirms its strong commitment to the terms of the pact of 15 December 2006 and to its related protocols guaranteeing security, stability and development. We are also a signatory to the declarations agreed by the heads of State and Government of the member States of that organization in Addis Ababa on 15 July, and in Kampala on 7 and 8 August and 7 and 8 September. Along with the other countries of the region, Burundi remains determined to seek solutions to that conflict through existing regional arrangements and in accordance with decisions already taken by the countries of the subregion within the framework of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region. The Assembly will have noted in the course of my statement that the Government of Burundi has made undeniable progress. Still, major challenges remain, not least of them the maintenance of economic growth. Despite the unfavourable international financial and economic context, Burundi, with the support of its partners, must keep its head above water. It must increase its economic growth with the aim of implementing its economic and social development projects. It goes without saying that lack of growth, along with poverty, means fewer schools, fewer hospitals and less progress in the areas of energy and transportation infrastructure — in short, less development for the country and its people. No leader worthy of the title would bequeath such a disastrous economic situation to future generations. That is why, despite the troubling international economic outlook, guidance and support are more than ever necessary for economies as weak as ours in Burundi. However sustainable it may be at the national level, our economy is still very much dependent on the global economy. I remain convinced that, with the will, commitment and vigour of the people of Burundi, supported by our friends, the scale of our political and socioeconomic gains will continue to expand. For its part, the Government will spare no effort to harness, coordinate and collaborate with the efforts of all parties to fight hand in hand for people’s well-being and prosperity, in Burundi and around the world. I would like to conclude by welcoming the actions taken by the United Nations, which over the 67 years of its existence has moved the world forward at an everaccelerating pace. I would also like to see the institutional changes envisaged for the Organization take the interests of all Member States into consideration, with all stakeholders taking part in the reform and updating of the system.. Finally, I wish the President of the General Assembly every success throughout his term of office. Long live international cooperation! Long live the United Nations! Long live Burundi!﻿I bring greetings from the South Pacific. For the past year, New Zealand has had the privilege of chairing the Pacific Islands Forum, a regional body that represents some of the smallest and most vulnerable States on this planet. For us that has been an important responsibility. Because we are a small country with modest resources, we choose to focus much of our attention on our own region. Over 60 per cent of our official development assistance is spent in our own neighbourhood. Serving as Chair of the Pacific Islands Forum has caused us to reflect on the role of regional organizations, and also on the extent to which we all depend on the United Nations for solutions to challenges that are truly global in character. I say with some confidence that we have been making good progress in dealing with those challenges that are capable of regional solutions. But I must also say that we need and expect more from this institution. The Pacific Islands Forum has 16 members, of which 16 are small island States. I was pleased this week to attend the first meeting between the Secretary-General and Pacific Islands Forum leaders, which I hope will mark a new era of enhanced high-level engagement between this Organization and our region and a greater understanding of our needs. The Pacific has had its share of stability and security challenges in recent times. As a region, we have done reasonably well in dealing with them. Most recently it has been in Solomon Islands that a regional initiative has been required. The Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands has involved a truly regional approach, with the participation of police and other personnel from every member of the Pacific Islands Forum. I am pleased to report that the security element of that initiative has been significantly scaled down and will soon be fully withdrawn. But there is also more that this Organization, particularly the Security Council, can do to acknowledge and support regional leadership on peace and security matters in the Pacific and elsewhere. Concerns about democracy, the rule of law and human rights are not mere abstract considerations within the Pacific. Those principles have been challenged in a number of States, most notably, in recent years, in Fiji. In that respect, I am pleased to report that progress is being made towards the holding of elections in 2014, and that support has been forthcoming to ensure that such elections are free and fair. Stability and security issues are not the only priorities for our regional body. In our year as Forum Chair, New Zealand chose to focus on a number of development priorities, two of which I wish to mention in my remarks today. For many of the poorer States within our region, their fisheries resource is the major economic asset they hold. Yet due to illegal fishing practices, unreported catch and inadequate management practices, those countries have received far too small a return on that resource. Because of the highly migratory character of the tuna resource, this is truly a matter requiring regional management. Solid progress is being made in such areas as improved surveillance, the training of monitors and improved management practices, both to protect the last really healthy fishery on the planet and to ensure that its owners receive a fair share of the resource they own. One of the highest priorities within our region is the need for practical initiatives in the area of renewable energy. Ours is a region heavily dependent upon fossil fuels for the generation of electricity. The cost of expensive imported diesel in most small Pacific economies is absolutely crippling. The climate change impact is obvious. After a decade of climate change conferences and hundreds of millions of dollars in so-called climate change initiatives, one might be forgiven for imagining that the Pacific, overendowed as it is with good sunlight, would by now be positively festooned with solar power plants. Sadly, I must report that that is not in fact the case. Indeed, one of the most striking features of our region has been the complete lack of progress in putting lofty climate change rhetoric into any form of renewable energy practice. In our year in the Chair of the regional body we have set out to correct that serious shortcoming. A small but important illustration lies in our work in the tiny Tokelau Islands. Until now, Tokelau has been 100 per cent dependent on fossil fuels for the generation of electricity. By the end 2012, Tokelau will be over 90 per cent resourced with renewable solar electricity. Good progress has also been made in Tonga, where I recently participated in the opening of a solar power plant supplying around 20 per cent of the electricity requirements of the main island, Tongatapu. And we are working with the Cook Islands Government, too, to assist in meeting their bold aspiration to 50 per cent renewable electricity by 2015, mostly through solar initiatives. These New Zealand-funded programmes are an important part of our overall commitment to our region. Our parting legacy from our year as Chair of the regional body is a renewable-energy pledging conference to be held early next year, with the objective of matching donors, suppliers of concessional and commercial finance, and others with the renewable energy plans of our Pacific neighbours. Here I should acknowledge the European Union’s commitment in co-leading this initiative, as well as the support of the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank and the Governments of Australia, the United States and other generous supporters. While there is much that can be achieved by regional action, we must acknowledge that sometimes regional solutions are just not enough. That goes right to the very heart of the reason for the existence of this Organization. My point is most vividly illustrated today in relation to Syria. It would be difficult for me to overstate the level of frustration of the people I represent with the complete inability of the Security Council to act in relation to Syria. And it would be even more difficult to overstate the extent to which the Security Council is at risk of losing its credibility in the eyes of reasonable and fair-minded people through its inability to act. People in my country ask a very simple question: If 25,000 deaths, countless thousands injured and many more displaced and homeless are not enough to get the Security Council to act, then what does it take? Just what does it take? I welcome the leadership that the Arab League and Arab States have shown on this issue, and we have seen similar leadership from them on other difficult issues in their region. And I welcome the fact that the General Assembly has been looking for opportunities to be more engaged. In the absence of leadership from the Security Council, 1 suggest that the Assembly must find ways to play a more activist role. But from all of this, the case for Security Council reform has become utterly compelling. Indeed, increasingly, the future credibility of the United Nations may depend on it. If we are to make progress in this area we will need to see Members move past the extravagant attempts to maximize individual positions and try to find some meaningful, practical reforms that actually hold the prospect of widespread support. I represent a small nation of practical, constructive people. And it is because we seek practical, constructive reform that our Government supports the so-called intermediate solution: the creation of a new category of seat for the group of larger countries that feel underrepresented in comparison with the five permanent members of the Security Council (P-5), but seats that they would have to win in open elections so as to make them fully accountable to the broader membership. I do not intend in these remarks to discuss any other specific proposals we would like to see considered, with one exception. There are now compelling reasons for us to ask the P-5 to voluntarily accept restrictions on the use of the veto. To go further and to seek its abolition is pointless; it simply will not happen. But to ask the P-5 to acknowledge and respect the genuine concerns of the wider membership by voluntarily accepting a curb on the exercise of the veto is an entirely reasonable and achievable objective. My country was one of those that led the opposition to the veto when the Organization was being established; indeed, it was the only Charter issue that was forced to a vote. The permanent members argued at that stage that the veto was necessary in order to protect their vital national interests. Yet today we routinely see the veto exercised in circumstances that have little to do with national interests. My request to the five permanent members is simply that they stick with what they said to us back in 1945. And my challenge to them today is to consider a process by which they collectively and voluntarily agree to confine their use of the veto to those issues that clearly and directly affect their vital national interests; and also that they voluntarily agree not to use their veto in situations that involve mass atrocities. While on the topic of the Security Council, I would like to take the opportunity to urge the Council and the relevant organs of the General Assembly to respond positively to the requests from the Economic Community of West African States for support in dealing with the conflict in Mali and the Sahel. Too often we have seen the Council fail to respond in a timely way to requests for help — in Rwanda, in Guinea, in Darfur and in Somalia. Too often it has been a case of too little, too late. In all of these cases we have seen good leadership from within the African Union, and that leadership deserves a timely and constructive response from New York. Many of those here will be aware that New Zealand is an energetic candidate for election to the Security Council for the term from 2015-2016. I can assure the Assembly that it will hear more from us on these topics over the next two years. We are a small country with a big voice and an approach that is fair-minded and constructive. In the past few days. the Assembly has heard from both Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas. We are now on notice that the issue of Palestinian status in the United Nations will come before the Assembly during this session. We look forward to seeing the text of a draft resolution and to engaging in the consultations that have been signaled to us. I said earlier that New Zealanders are practical and constructive. They are also fair-minded people; they expect to see their Government bring all of those attributes to the consideration of such a resolution, and that we will surely do. Having said that, let me also be clear that we see such a resolution as a very poor substitute for the direct discussions that should occur between two leaders who live half an hour down the road from each other. In his address to the Assembly earlier in the week (see A/67/PV.12), Prime Minister Netanyahu set out clearly the grave implications for the Middle East, and for the global community more generally, of a nuclear breakout in the region. Like other Member States, New Zealand believes Iran must be told to step back from a course that risks further dangerous escalation of the situation. We hope the international community will stand firm in sending that sort of message. In return, however, I suggest that it is fair for the international community to make a request of Prime Minister Netanyahu. And that is to put the settlements on hold, at the very least while negotiations proceed, and to engage in the direct talks with his Palestinian counterpart that represent the only basis for a durable solution to this issue, and an essential step in removing the seeds of wider conflict within the region. I would like to remind the Assembly that these are very difficult times for Governments around the world. Budget economies have affected foreign ministries, my own included. It is only fair that we should in turn ask this large institution to find economies and improve working methods in order to deliver better value for our taxpayers. Smaller countries, like New Zealand, depend more than most on good multilateral institutions. We need a United Nations that is modern, efficient and able to meet changing needs. We all need a Security Council that is more responsive to the needs of the wider membership and more effective in dealing with the significant challenges that we all confront today.﻿I wish at the outset to extend my heartiest congratulations and the assurances of my cooperation and highest esteem to President Jeremić on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. Antigua and Barbuda looks forward to his leadership and guidance throughout this session. I extend congratulations also to your predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, on a job well done and for his continued service to the international community. The theme of the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, is judicious, for it accurately summarizes how we as nations need to act in these precarious times of insecurity and uncertainty. These times and circumstances call for a heightened sense of urgency and a stronger will among all nations to work with and through the United Nations in embracing multilateralism in its truest form. The sixty-seventh session of the Assembly is taking place in an environment of continued challenges to international peace and security; international democracy is being tested; there is unbearable poverty throughout the world; the sluggish recovery of the world’s economy provides little hope; and disasters induced by climate change are becoming more rampant. As we look around our global community, we ask ourselves what we can do to solve the many problems we face, and how we can find and maintain the peace that we so desire. Maybe if we ask ourselves not as individuals but as nations what peace is, then, perhaps, we can collectively resolve to find the answer so as to achieve peace. For Antigua and Barbuda, peace means respect for human rights and the differences of others and the protection of women, children and the elderly. Peace is devoid of greed that ends in unparalleled wealth for a few and nauseating poverty for many. Peace means global health awareness, protection and accessibility for all. Peace means democracies with active global citizens, by non-violent change. Peace means eliminating nuclear weapons and controlling small arms. Peace is free of violence and requires the acceptance of differences in race, gender and religion. Peace is a position from which to value the limits of nature’s resources, and it is characterized by the absence of the ignorance and shortsightedness that leads some to selfishly plunder Earth’s plenty. Peace is the understanding that climate change is real and that sustainability should be our priority. Peace means fair trade and equality of equity in globalization. Peace is the elimination of corruption in Government. Peace is the understanding and the recognition that the world’s problems can be solved only by the inclusion of all countries. Peace therefore involves a wider and equal representation in the Security Council rather than membership by a selected few. In 2011, we celebrated the International Year for Peoples of African Descent. That year has passed, and gone from the international agenda is the issue of reparations for slavery, which is central to fighting racism and racial discrimination and nurturing a culture of peace among nations. The legacy of racial violence, segregation and slavery against peoples of African descent has severely impaired our advancement as nations, communities and individuals across the political, social and, most importantly, the economical spectrums. In the words of Kwame Nkrumah, we can no longer afford the luxury of delay. The time has come for us to revisit the issue of reparations for slavery and place it at the top of the international agenda. Over 200 million persons in the Americas depend on us. That is why I am reiterating a call I made in the Hall in 2011 for former slave States to begin the reconciliation process by issuing formal apologies for the crimes committed by the nations or their citizens over the 400 years of the African slave trade. While nations in the developing world continue to grapple with the effects of a world economic crisis that is not of their own making, I call on former slave States to back up their apologies with new commitments to the economic development of those nations that have suffered from that human tragedy. Transnational crime is threatening the very existence of peace in Antigua and Barbuda. Our small size and lack of human and financial resources make it difficult for us, as a small island nation, to address that problem in an effective manner. The crime and violence fuelled by the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons are jeopardizing our major industries, including tourism. Our health-care systems are weighted down, and families are being torn apart. Nevertheless, crime prevention and small arms control is a priority for my Government. It is important to note that neither Antigua and Barbuda nor our Caribbean Community brothers and sisters manufacture small arms or light weapons, yet one recent estimate indicates that there are 1.6 million illegal firearms in the region. Additionally, Antigua and Barbuda is deeply saddened by the fact that, despite significant efforts, strong will on the part of the majority of States and the fact that a compromise was potentially within reach, there was no agreement on a text for the recently discussed legally binding arms trade treaty. The Assembly can rest assured that Antigua and Barbuda will not give up, and we will continue to advocate for a legally binding treaty that will eliminate the threat that is crippling our region. Antigua and Barbuda is committed to the rule of law and the process it enables for direct political dialogue and cooperation among all States and international actors. The rule of law facilitates international peace and security, human rights and development for all. Our joint responses to the threats to peace and security, along with the opportunities arising from various political, economic and social instabilities, must be guided by the rule of law, as it is the basis for friendly coexistence and interdependence between and among States. My Government upholds the ideals of the recently concluded High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels and stands committed to upholding that very important principle. The Caribbean has been known as a zone of peace. We value our ability to live and work together despite our different religious and political beliefs and ethnic backgrounds. Antigua and Barbuda therefore condemns the brutal killing of the United States Ambassador to Libya and the destruction of the United States Consulate in Libya. We condemn any acts of violence or killings disguised as actions to defend religious belief. If we are to build an environment of peace around the world, we must show tolerance for all peoples and beliefs. The dangers posed by non-State actors acquiring weapons of mass destruction are real and should be seen by all countries, large and small, as the single most destructive element threatening international peace and security. Antigua and Barbuda is particularly concerned by the lack of progress in the area of disarmament and non-proliferation. There should be no compromise on that issue. Antigua and Barbuda remains resolute in our continued call for a nuclear-weapon-free world. The recently concluded Rio+20 Conference on Sustainable Development provided an international platform from which to address the social, economic and environmental challenges affecting the international community. Those challenges are direct threats to humankind and oftentimes jeopardize peace and security for all. In resolution 66/288, entitled “The future we want”, Antigua and Barbuda saw the Rio+20 Conference as securing comprehensive and inclusive sustainability for small island nations, whose survival is contingent on an outcome of commitments and actions from the Conference. At the recently concluded summit of the Alliance of Small Island States, my country joined with other small island States in sending a strong message to the international community on the need for bold and ambitious actions. We cannot wait for our lands to disappear before we act. We must act now to respond to the climate crisis and ensure that not a single country is sacrificed, no matter how small. The threat is real. Our sea levels are rising, there is coral bleaching beyond our shores, and hurricanes are becoming more recurrent and severe. The Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change needs to take concrete steps in order to protect small island developing States and other exposed countries from the threats of climate change. The responsibility to mitigate climate change should be at the forefront of the collective consciousness of both developing and developed countries. However, developed countries should accept their responsibilities as the leading contributors to the extremely high levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, which are now threatening the welfare of present and future generations. It is my Government’s hope that the selfish act of inaction will dissipate in Doha and that a positive outcome in the climate change negotiations will usher in new hopes for humanity and compassion for our planet. Antigua and Barbuda is doing its part to protect Mother Earth. My Government has embarked on a renewable energy mandate. We are now shifting our focus towards harvesting water and wind to meet our energy needs. We are protecting our ecosystem with strong legislation, and we are replanting mangroves and protecting areas that are sensitive to pollutants. Climate change and sustainability are high on my Government’s development and investment priorities, and we are ensuring that new and refurbished private and commercial investments are in line with our green approach to our society. My Government also joins with member States of the Alliance of Small Island States in calling on the General Assembly to designate 2014 as the International Year of Small Island Developing States in order to raise awareness of the special situation of our members and mobilize international support for our sustainable development. Over the past year, the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti has made important progress in its support to the Haitian people’s efforts to consolidate democracy, stability and the rule of law and to move forward on the path to social and economic development. In spite of the progress made, the situation in Haiti remains fragile, as the country strives to overcome its daunting political, social and economic challenges. I therefore stress the need for adequate funding and continued implementation of the Mission in Haiti. I would like to reiterate my Government’s strong support for the Mission in Haiti and to stress that peace will only be achieved if we simultaneously address issues of security, national reconciliation and development. I also call on those nations that pledged assistance to Haiti to honour their commitments. Those pledges are urgently needed, now that the rebuilding phase is progressing under a new Administration. It has been nearly fi ve years since we started to see a sharp downturn in the world’s economy. Unfortunately, Antigua and Barbuda is among the small and developing States that have yet to see significant improvements. While we have made several attempts to curtail the haemorrhaging of our fragile economies, it must be said that we need greater cooperation, flexibility and inclusion on the part of our developed partners. Gross domestic product can no longer be the criterion used in accessing concessionary financing and other international financial relief; instead, mechanisms should be put in place that take into consideration a host of other elements, including the fragility of economies. We are still in a crisis, a crisis of confidence in global governance and the institutional capacity for managing the international financial system, international trade and international development policies. We are also living in the era of globalization where cooperative collectives — and not ambitious and selfish empires — must be the order of the day in international financial governance. A privileged few should never be allowed to make financial decisions that impact the socioeconomic livelihood of millions without regard for that excluded majority. Economic prosperity should be shared equally among countries and within countries. The exclusive clubs of the Group of Eight and the Group of 20 cannot repair the fragmented international financial system without taking due consideration of the majority of nations left on the outside with much to offer. My Government calls on developed countries and the countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to guarantee that their response with regard to international tax matters will involve improved international cooperation on tax issues through comprehensive and supportive frameworks that ensure the involvement and equal treatment of small jurisdictions like Antigua and Barbuda without the nuances of inappropriately branding us as tax havens. Antigua and Barbuda has been proactive in its approach to diversifying our economy. We entered into the international gaming sector abiding by all prescribed international standards. Unfortunately, our friend and developed partner, the United States of America, was of the view that our gaming sector contravened its domestic laws. Antigua and Barbuda found it appropriate to seek international redress on the matter through the dispute resolution mechanism at the World Trade Organization. We prevailed, and the United States was ordered to compensate Antigua and Barbuda for its losses. Yet, years later, Antigua and Barbuda is still engaging in negotiations with the United States. I therefore call on the Government of the United States to work with us to quickly resolve the matter so that we can arrive at a settlement that is fair and just. I also call on the United States to work cooperatively with Antigua and Barbuda and other remote gaming jurisdictions to forge an enlightened, reasonable and reasoned way of addressing the regulation and licensing of remote gaming services. While we are on the matter of trade disputes, it has been decades since the United States instituted its embargo on Cuba. Time and time again the international community, acting through the General Assembly, has called on the United States to lift that trade embargo. However, it continues unabated. Since its inception, the embargo has inf licted untold economic damage on the Cuban people, caused shortages and needless suffering to the Cuban population, limited and restrained the development of the country and seriously damaged the Cuban economy. Through all of that, the Cuban people have managed to preserve their sovereignty, independence and right to self-determination. As a country committed to the norms of the multilateral trading system and to the freedom of trade and navigation and a country that rejects the extraterritorial application of another country’s national laws, Antigua and Barbuda calls on the United States to immediately and unconditionally lift its economic embargo against the people of Cuba. It is time to turn a new page of peace, cooperation and understanding, a time for global healing and international community-building. The continuation of the embargo further destroys the very fabric of hope that we have created as a community of nations in order to resolve the world’s issues. The world is changing. Economies, policies and countries are becoming more intertwined than ever before. Antigua and Barbuda sees those relationships of integration as positive steps towards achieving a world that is not dominated by a few but represents rather a unification of leadership in the hope of combating most of the world’s shortcomings. The smaller developing countries in the Caribbean and the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) are poised to make great strides in our integration agenda. The ratification of the OECS Economic Union is a major step in that direction. We have a stable shared currency, with a monetary council that has been instrumental in preventing further deterioration of our economies. There have been renewed commitments by all of the Caribbean Community countries to work tirelessly to realize the full potential of the Caribbean Single Market and Economy. Antigua and Barbuda has joined the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America, an institution that is built on the principles of solidarity, complementarity and cooperation. The Community of Latin America and Caribbean States — a new integration arm within our region — the geographical position of our countries, our shared cultures and values and our desires as developing partners for a more just global community that is built on fairness and peace give my Government hope that all is not lost as regards multilateralism. Antigua and Barbuda faces many challenges in the prevention, care and treatment of non-communicable diseases (NCDs). Heart disease, diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disease and chronic respiratory diseases continue to be the leading causes of death in Antigua and Barbuda, with cancer and heart disease being the top two causes. The burdens of the cost, the loss of productivity and the disabilities as a result of chronic diseases continue to weigh heavy on our health-care system, since treatment for those diseases and their complications, including dialysis, chemotherapy and drug therapy, continue to be offered free of cost to patients. The fight against NCDs remains high, therefore, on Antigua and Barbuda’s health agenda. Following our participation in the United Nations High-level Meeting on the subject last year, the Government of Antigua and Barbuda approved the establishment of a multisectoral NCD commission to provide leadership in that critical area, drafted legislation for tobacco control, engaged civil society and non-governmental organizations in drafting an NCD policy and action plan and has supported plans for the development of a comprehensive cancer treatment centre in Antigua and Barbuda to serve the OECS. The Ministries of Health and Agriculture continue to collaborate in the development of a food policy that will address some of the risk factors for NCDs. The fight against HIV/AIDS in my region is also real. The figures are heartbreaking, and the outlook is troubling. Despite some progress, much still needs to be done to achieve the 2015 goal of universal access to HIV prevention, treatment, support and care. My Government is in the process of updating the code of conduct to prevent discrimination in the workplace against persons living with HIV/AIDS. We will not tolerate injustice, intolerance and violence of any kind against persons living with HIV/AIDS. Many might believe that for countries like Antigua and Barbuda, as a small island developing State, our only concern is for development, but I stand here today with grave concern that the disregard for world peace and security threatens the very existence of humankind and will push the international community into further chaos and destruction. We cannot ignore from our tiny peaceful shores the images that glare from our TV screens of unrest, protest and demonstrations from various corners of the world. The images are daunting, the voices of change are deafening and the use of force or threat of use of force to suppress the voices of democracy is intolerable. The United Nations has to be unified in its response so as to act in a peaceful manner while protecting the rights of populations near and far. The situation in Syria is disheartening. Children, women and the elderly must be protected. I call on both sides to exercise restraint and allow humanitarian relief supplies to enter Syria. I also call on all nations to cease supplying arms to the two sides in the conflict. As leaders, our priority must be to urge all parties in Syria to implement a ceasefire and stop the violence immediately and completely. Every effort must be made to implement Mr. Annan’s six-point proposal and the relevant Security Council resolutions. The United Nations and the Arab League must lead in that process. Any threats of war must be suppressed, and negotiation and mediation should be the order of the day. If it is not addressed, the Syrian crisis will soon pose a serious threat to international peace and security. Antigua and Barbuda will continue to give its support to a just, peaceful and appropriate settlement of the Syrian crisis at an early date. These are undeniably perilous times. An event can occur in a distant part of the globe that can severely impact Antigua and Barbuda domestically, an event that completely ignores the importance of achieving tolerance by peaceful means. Our response may be one of indignation but also a sense that we live in a perilous atmosphere characterized by the intolerance of peace. The multiplicity and interconnectedness of the many global threats and challenges we face will test the abilities of this Assembly. Is the United Nations up to the task? I am confident that by sharing our collective wisdom and using it as a resource, the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session will take decisions of meaningful and enduring benefit and peace for the peoples of the world. I am equally confident that our deliberations can lead to solutions that will ensure the protection of all our peoples. I therefore call on all of us, as world leaders, to rise to the challenges and move with haste to bring peace to the citizens of the world. We are leaders and caretakers of humankind and, as such, our response to those challenges will be recorded in the books of history, which will reveal whether we had the ability to act with constraint, effectiveness and fairness in order to achieve stability through peaceful means. Let peace reign.﻿Allow me to congratulate the President on his election and to offer the steadfast support of my country for his term. Each year we renew our commitment to our United Nations and to the Charter that enshrines, in the plainest of language, our hopes and aspirations for a progressive, peaceful and secure world. Our Organization and our Charter have survived and thrived through dark times and great adversity. The letter and spirit of the Charter remain alive and vibrant in a constantly changing world. Our work continues to be important, even in the face of doubts about the relevance of multilateral institutions. All that was possible because at the heart of our determination to build peace has been our commitment to the rule of law. Keeping faith in the law allows us to treat each other fairly and in the spirit of sovereign equality. It provides the rules that enable nations to relate to one another and work together. It reduces arbitrariness and unilateralism. Fidelity to the rule of law allows us not only the means to resolve differences but also the substance on which to build better understanding. Our advocacy for the rule of law not only is born of our experience and insights as a founding Member of the United Nations and an active participant in international affairs, but also is deeply rooted in our experience as a nation. Our freedom was hard-won. Our democracy was achieved only after decades of dictatorship. Our governance was sullied by corruption and patronage in previous years. Our President, Benigno S. Aquino III, has placed the rule of law at the centre of his governance. As a result, the culture of impunity has been neutralized, our economy is on the upswing and our people’s rights and freedoms are assured. Among the gravest threats that continue to face us today is the deadly testament of man’s ability to destroy his fellow man. The full force of the rule of law must be brought to bear to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, to promote nuclear disarmament and to end the f low of illicit weapons. The Philippines is proud to have presided over the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The historic adoption of the 64 action points strengthened the legal regime of the Treaty. We also support nuclear-weapon-free zones, including the Southeast Asian Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone created by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. It is essential that such a zone be created for the volatile Middle East, as envisaged by the 2010 Review Conference. The Philippines commends the States of the region, the depository States of the 1995 resolution 50/78, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and the Government of Finland for setting the stage for the 2012 Conference that will pursue that most urgent objective. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is another critical pillar of global disarmament and non-proliferation. The Philippines commends Indonesia for being the latest annex 2 State to ratify the Treaty, and it reiterates its call to the remaining eight annex 2 States to accede at the soonest possible time. Other States not included in annex 2, but not parties to the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, must do the same to ensure the universality of the Treaty. We must also actively pursue respect for the law of peace and humanitarian law in the numerous regional conflicts that affect the lives, safety and well-being of millions of people around the world. Towards that end, peacekeeping is the crucial tool by which the Charter’s mandate is carried out. Despite its limited resources, the Philippines is doing its part in that important task. We are currently a major contributor to United Nations peacekeeping missions. We call on others to also do all that they can. And we support innovative efforts to help embattled communities, including proposals on possible unarmed peacekeeping that would expand the civilian component of our endeavours. The Philippines also recognizes the important role of women in the promotion of peace and continues to deploy more female peacekeepers to peacekeeping missions. We aim to attain and surpass the 10 per cent deployment target of women in country troop contingents and 20 per cent for police deployments. With a tenth of the population of our country in foreign lands, there is a very real and human dimension to our quest to strengthen the rule of law. To further galvanize international dialogue and cooperation, the Philippines has been among the principal advocates for developing norms of international law that will protect not only our overseas Filipinos but all migrants. Human trafficking is a crime of such magnitude that it cannot be dealt with by a single nation or even by a group of nations. The international community as a whole must stand together against that scourge. For that reason, the Philippines became a founding member of the Group of Friends United against Human Trafficking, and we are the main sponsor of the biennial General Assembly resolution on trafficking in women and girls. In pursuit of that objective, we call on all Member States to implement the Global Plan of Action against Trafficking in Persons and to ratify and enforce human rights instruments such as the Palermo Protocol and the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families. Many of my country’s overseas Filipinos are found on merchant ships. Filipinos form the bulk of seafarers. Many have fallen victim to pirates. Maritime piracy continues to be a menace to the entire world. A full 80 per cent of world trade travels by sea — almost six billion tons of cargo, moved by some 93,000 merchant vessels, manned by 1.25 million seafarers. The business and human costs of piracy cannot be overstated. We support bilateral, multilateral, regional and interregional efforts to address the impact of piracy, including measures to improve the welfare of affected seafarers. The Philippine Constitution values the dignity of every human person and guarantees full respect for all human rights. Our National Human Rights Action Plan 2009-2014 aims to mainstream human rights standards into all parts of the national Government and national life. The Plan fully respects our obligations under the eight major international human rights treaties. As a founding and current member of the Human Rights Council, the Philippines works with the other members of the Council to safeguard the human rights of vulnerable groups, such as migrants, women, children, young people, the elderly, indigenous peoples and persons with disabilities. The Philippines has actively contributed to initiatives on human rights, extreme poverty, human rights education, combating trafficking in persons, especially women and children, and climate change. The Philippines was one of the first nations to submit to the universal periodic review process of the Human Rights Council. Last month, the Council adopted by consensus our second report under that review mechanism. The noble vision of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and of many other profound declarations is far from being realized for the poor, the deprived, the oppressed and the marginalized. The recent global financial and economic crises have left such vulnerable sectors of our societies in even greater danger. The Philippine Government therefore strongly supports measures for the empowerment of those disadvantaged and endangered groups and strongly advocates policies that aim to raise their participation and integration in society. For that reason, it is important to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and to plan for the post-MDG period, after 2015. Accordingly, the Philippines, together with Tanzania, initiated resolution 66/124, entitled “High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the realization of the Millennium Development Goals and other internationally agreed development goals for persons with disabilities”. The 2013 High-level Meeting seeks the inclusiveness of the disabled, a cause to which all should rally. We are instituting measures to enhance the role and the status of women and are strengthening their protection through the Philippine Commission on Women, whose foundation predates the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, through the key legislation of the Magna Carta of Women and through the Philippine Plan for Gender- Responsive Development 1995-2015. Migration remains an unheralded and underappreciated dimension of globalization today. Yet the reality is that hundreds of millions live and work outside their native lands, providing benefits to both their host nations and their countries of origin. The Global Forum on Migration and Development, which the Philippines chaired in 2008, allows us to share our practical experiences in migration management and in protecting the rights and welfare of all migrants. We look forward to a successful outcome of the Forum summit in Port Louis, Mauritius, in November. Earlier this year, the Philippines was pleased to ratify two key international instruments that affect migrants everywhere, namely, the Maritime Labour Convention and the Convention concerning Decent Work for Domestic Workers. Our ratification brings those two agreements into force next year. As a further indication of our commitment to protecting the rights of migrants, the Philippines will co-host a regional meeting of the Global Forum on Migration and Development, under the title “International Migrant Domestic Care Workers at the Interface of Migration and Development”, in Manila later this month, with the support of UN-Women, the International Labour Organization and the International Organization for Migration. The rule of law is an instrument of justice and development. Yet the continuing global economic challenges and financial instability make it even more important that we focus on ensuring that the rule of law gives everyone their due. Poverty, hunger, poor health and education and a deteriorating environment are threats to all and require nothing less than our concerted and collective response. In all development efforts, we must respect the principles and norms of sustainability that are crucial to the continued health of the Earth and of our peoples. Consequently, the Philippines will further integrate key ideas from the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development into the review of its medium- term development plan, even as we continue to pursue the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. For many developing countries such as the Philippines, food security remains a crucial issue. Recent events have shown that the capacity to source affordable food can affect millions of people, sometimes even to the extent of their sheer survival. We express our appreciation to the General Assembly for the adoption of resolution 66/222, declaring 2014 the International Year of Family Farming. As a country particularly prone to natural disasters, including those wrought by climate change, we value the work being done in advancing the management of natural disaster risk reduction. Global and regional cooperation through partnerships is the best way to strengthen the international humanitarian and emergency response system. Natural disasters plague mankind. The forces of nature are difficult to contain. That should not be the case in humankind’s quest for peace. While natural disasters are impossible to prevent, the same is not true of war and conflict. The United Nations was created to protect the weak from the strong, to provide for the equality of all sovereign States and to enshrine the rule of law as the governing principle in regulating international disputes.The Philippines is therefore steadfast in promoting the peaceful settlement of disputes through a rules-based approach. We stand firmly behind the efforts of the United Nations to promote the rule of law and mediation. In 1982, we adopted the Manila Declaration on the Peaceful Settlement of Disputes. This year marks its thirtieth anniversary. The principles and processes set out in the Manila Declaration remain applicable to this day and are a stark reminder that we have yet to overcome the barriers that divide countries and peoples throughout the planet. For that reason, we share the President’s view that “Bringing about the adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means” is essential to the future peace, progress and prosperity of all nations. Furthermore, from the perspective of the rule of law, and given the maritime disputes that have intensified in the Asian region, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) has never been more relevant than it is today. All States must respect their obligations to settle their maritime disputes by peaceful means under UNCLOS, without the threat or use of force. A rules-based approach under UNCLOS can peacefully resolve the Asian maritime disputes. Today, my country faces its most serious challenge — a challenge to the security of its maritime domain and the integrity of its national territory, as well as its effective protection of its marine environment. To address this challenge and to arrive at a durable resolution, we must rely on the rule of law and not the force of arms. We must rely on the body of rules that state that disputes must be resolved peacefully. We must rely on the norms and rules enshrined in UNCLOS. We therefore rely on our friends and allies and all those who believe in the peaceful and fair management of the seas and oceans to uphold the rule of law and UNCLOS. We will endeavour to elicit a more proactive approach from the General Assembly. We often hear the quote that “we are a country of laws and not of men”. I shall modify it to say that “we are a community of nations and not of hegemons”. Let us make this a reality. Let us all, without exception, respect the international legal framework to utilize institutions and adhere to commitments in treaties and conventions. For in so doing, we create global norms that will serve our nations in good stead today and in the future, and we will preserve the one great institution that we have charged with promoting peace and prosperity in our world, our United Nations. If we achieve this, rather than being forced to accept that might is right, we will instead demonstrate that right is might.﻿I should like to start by conveying to the friendly Republic of Serbia and to President Jeremić personally my most heartfelt congratulations on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I should like also to congratulate Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of the Assembly at its previous session, as well as Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for the efforts that they have undertaken in favour of all peoples’ aspirations that are aimed at achieving stability, peace, security and development throughout the world. I should like to convey to them the congratulations of my people, who, through the revolution of 17 December 2010, entered the fraternity of free people and democratic States. I should now like to express our views regarding the major issues facing our world today. Today we are witnessing the great evil perpetrated by a few groups that are using the media to disseminate their destructive and chaotic views. That makes clear the great chasm that exists with respect to the psychological, social and economic crises of our societies, which, unfortunately, exacerbate the phenomena of violence and extremism. Those warning signals need to be addressed very seriously. The First and Second World Wars did not happen in a vacuum; they were the result of extremist statements and policies that led to human carnage and claimed tens of millions of lives. We in Tunisia believe that we must work under the auspices of the United Nations to bring about peace for all humankind and to avert confrontations between civilizations. Tunisia’s access to this forum of free and democratic peoples came at a very high cost. Tens of thousands of political prisoners, as well as exiles, were tortured before the revolution; they were the ones who paid the price. During the revolution, more than 300 citizens were killed and 2,000 others injured. A year and a half after the revolution, Tunisia continues to move forward. We are, however, faced by a great many difficult economic and social problems, the legacy of a regime that lasted for more than two decades and whose practices included corruption, fraud and repression. But that price is negligible when compared with that paid by our brothers in Egypt, Yemen and Libya, and, of course, by our brothers in Syria, more than 25,000 of whom have been killed and tens of thousands injured, along with the destruction of the country’s infrastructure. All of that will forever mark the Syrian people and affect their future for decades to come. That high price is something we all should remember in facing the difficulties that hamper us in the building of an international system that will work to avert, lay siege to and curtail those accursed political systems that threaten the freedom of peoples and peace among peoples. The Republic of Tunisia, which has just emerged from dictatorship and which is well aware of the high toll taken by such a regime, proposes that we create a new mechanism to fight dictatorships, which are a disease threatening peace, stability and security as well as the prosperity of peoples. They not only have an impact on the freedom of people in a given country, but they also give rise to hatred and wars. Europe was able to enjoy peace, stability and prosperity only after the fall of the fascist, Nazi and Communist dictatorships. In the medical field, methods were developed by the World Health Organization that made possible the elimination of polio in the twentieth century; that would have seemed pure fiction to doctors in the nineteenth century. We have acquired political maturity and awareness in the face of dictatorship, which, more than diseases, poses a serious threat to the lives of hundreds of millions of people. Because the United Nations, through its Charter and institutions, has at its disposal a legal arsenal that can serve to bring about basic freedoms and peace among peoples, we invite the Organization to declare that dictatorship is a social and political scourge that must be eliminated through the combined efforts of all peoples throughout the world. It behoves us to implement a bold and ambitious programme to eliminate dictatorship in the same manner in which we got rid of polio and smallpox. The creation of the International Criminal Court (ICC) demonstrates that we are on a historic journey of building international institutions that has not yet been completed. The ICC is but a further step in the direction of the complete elimination of dictatorship. However, the Court tackles crimes only after their commission; what we require are mechanisms to prevent dictatorship from taking root in the first place. Contemporary dictatorships are based on the use of excessive force and give themselves false legality through the holding of fraudulent elections. They use the appearance of democracy to undermine democracy itself. Those kinds of elections took place in Tunisia in 1999, 2004 and 2009. Our deposed dictator was prepared to remain in power forever. He intended, for the 2014 elections, to rewrite the Constitution so he could run for a third term. Each time he re-imposed the status quo because he knew that no internal domestic or international mechanisms existed that could rein in his political activities. During that entire period, the Tunisian democratic opposition could not but note the paralysis of domestic and international laws and legal mechanisms. It was simply impossible for the opposition to turn to a Tunisian or international constitutional court. Although it was normal that such a constitutional court did not exist in the country, it certainly was not normal that a mechanism to that effect should fail to exist within the United Nations, because the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as well as many other international conventions and instruments, backed by General Assembly resolutions, all are texts that could be viewed as being the charter of humankind. The only thing missing is an implementation mechanism. The Republic of Tunisia therefore proposes the creation of an international constitutional court similar to the ICC, which could be seized of challenging illegal constitutions or charters, or fraudulent elections. Such a court would have to be competent to consider a number of disputes and issues, to rule on the legality or illegality of elections that are not in line with the Charter of the United Nations. All systems, especially democratic ones, would face the clear duty of being recognized by the international constitutional court. The court would also make recommendations and provide the necessary advice to all those who so request. The body could serve as a deterrent against any despot, any tyrannical regime, in the case of any such regime forging election results. The court would contribute to the very disappearance of those regimes, because it would strengthen the role of peaceful civic resistance. Otherwise, the only choice would be to live under oppression or to turn to violence. We all know just how expensive that can be. Tunisia strongly advocates the protection of the environment to ensure that we leave succeding generations a sustainable world. We also want to leave a world living in peace and to douse the flames of war in Afghanistan, Mali, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Sudan and the Middle East. Tunisia requests rapid humanitarian intervention to help save the heroic Syrian people and to ensure the departure of President Bashar Al-Assad and his criminal regime. We call for the deployment of an Arab peace force to guarantee the transition and to create a democratic State, which would be pluralistic and that could live in peace. Tunisia wishes to reiterate its support for the Palestinian people and their right to a just peace and the release of thousands of prisoners. We support the creation of a Palestinian State with Al-Quds as its capital and with membership in this Organization. We condemn violence against women and children. We denounce the fanaticism, the anti-Semitism and the Islamophobia that one often sees. We call for tolerance to allow all religious minorities, including Muslims in Burma and Christians living in all Muslim countries, to exercise their faith freely. The chasm between the rich and the poor must be reduced. During the upcoming Nuclear Materials Conference, Tunisia will insist on the need to free the Middle East from nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction. We champion pluralistic, tolerant civilian societies and institutions. Tunisia is the country of peaceful democratic revolution. Tunisia asks the General Assembly to draw upon Article 22 of the Charter of the United Nations, by which it may establish such subsidiary organs as it deems necessary, and create an international constitutional court and to include this item in the agenda of its sixty-eighth session. I hope this proposal will enjoy the broadest possible support by democratic States and the mobilization of the international community, which played such an important role in the creation of the International Criminal Court. We hope that the same will be done to ensure that the proposed international constitutional court becomes a part of a comprehensive system that would enable our people and succeeding generations to avoid a scourge of blood and tears like that which has cost us so dearly.﻿Vanuatu wishes to associate itself with other delegations in congratulating the President and the members of his Bureau on their election to lead us through this sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I am indeed profoundly delighted, as Mr. Jeremić assured us in our meeting earlier this week, that he will do his utmost to assist with and bring to the forefront the issues that confront the Pacific island States and other marginalized nations. We trust that with his guidance, this session will conclude with successful outcomes. Allow me also to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, who, with strong leadership and diplomatic finesse, led us to great outcomes during the sixty-sixth session of the Assembly. Our world has seen unprecedented disputes and conflicts, most of which have spanned successive generations. The theme of the sixty-seventh session, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, should therefore lead us to focus on finding lasting solutions to the numerous ongoing conflicts in various parts of the world that are causing vulnerable people to suffer. Members have the solemn responsibility to steer this multilateral gathering towards deeper consideration of the founding goals of the Organization, which are to encourage and create a more secure and peaceful world in which diverse cultures and civilizations can coexist without having to resort to force and violence to achieve their goals. This rostrum can testify to all the speeches that have been delivered by the world’s great leaders on a vast array of issues that affect humankind. Many of us representing politically independent nations here have shared the journey and the litany of heartaches and dreams deferred of many of our global citizens, whose human rights to larger political and civil freedom are still bound by the tentacles of imperialism and the legacy of colonialism. Even now, for the remaining colonized territories, this rostrum represents the pinnacle they so greatly aspire to reach one day. Since 1980, the Republic of Vanuatu has repeatedly called for the United Nations to strengthen its efforts towards achieving the full decolonization of territories still controlled by administrative Powers. I call on the independent, free nations of the world to complete the story of decolonization and to close that chapter. At this juncture, I urge the United Nations not to reject the demands for French Polynesia’s right to self-determination and progress. In the same manner, negotiations for the self-government of the indigenous people of New Caledonia must continue. We encourage the parties to ensure that the process towards achieving self-government will stay on track. I also call upon Members to ensure that collective action is taken to lift the embargo on Cuba. We, the Members of the United Nations, must revive our political motivation and courage, dispel our feelings of animosity, and ensure that United Nations resolutions on that issue are fully implemented. Our actions must not detract from the universal values of love and respect for people, no matter how insignificant they may be to the powerful nations. I hope that one day we will at last be able to echo the message of freedom to many of our friends who still suffer from the burden of conflicting ideologies. Last year, I reiterated to this Assembly our serious concerns over the denial of a country’s right to exercise its full political freedom and inherent cultural rights over its maritime territories. Since we gained our independence 32 years ago, our territorial dispute with the French Republic over the southern two islands of Vanuatu, Matthew and Hunter, has been a reminder that we must continue to uphold the notion that the rule of law should not be used by powerful nations as an instrument to coerce weak and small nations, especially in territorial disputes. The French and the Vanuatu Governments met in Paris in April to commence dialogue on the issue of the territorially disputed islands. We take this opportunity to thank the French Government for finally opening its door to dialogue and negotiation in an attempt to resolve that outstanding international dispute. We acknowledge the procedures outlined within the United Nations to ensure that such disputes are amicably resolved. As a small island State surrounded by the vast Pacific Ocean, Vanuatu is exposed to the notorious illegal transshipment of and trade in illicit arms. The international arms trade has continuously lacked proper and coherent regulation and is responsible for the loss of innumerable lives. Like many other countries, we call on the United Nations to take a much firmer approach in expediting the conclusion of an arms trade treaty, which would provide greater security and control over such illegal activity. That is an issue of paramount importance to all countries exposed to the illegal trade in arms and light weapons. My country has consistently argued that the mechanisms and criteria for assessing graduation eligibility must not be isolated from the permanent and inherent vulnerabilities of our countries. It is unrealistic for United Nations agencies to assess progress and make projections without taking into consideration the matter of permanent vulnerabilities and the capacity to sustain growth in our countries after graduation. I wish to further state that, according to the World Risk Report 2011, Vanuatu scored highest on the World Risk Index as the country with the greatest disaster risk, due to its high exposure and weak coping capacities. The findings of that report are critical, and we therefore ask that the United Nations Committee for Development Policy carefully weigh its arguments and reassess the vulnerability graduation criteria. I would also like to state that, prior to another triennial review of the least developed country (LDC) category, the United Nations will need to ensure that proper resolutions are adopted by the General Assembly to ensure that small island States graduating from LDC status continue to enjoy certain preferential treatment, even after graduation, to offset the vulnerability factor. Let me take this opportunity to invite the members of the triennial review to visit my country to establish first-hand information and ascertain the findings of the World Risk Report prior to escalating the process of graduation in 2013. Our own experience has shown that the different ways that multilateral organizations and institutions categorize member countries can affect the f low of development assistance. For instance, Vanuatu, together with 15 other countries, was selected several years ago from among the Pacific island countries to benefit from the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) funding of the Government of the United States of America. At the time of our selection, Vanuatu was graded as a low- income country and, by the eligibility criteria of the MCC, was automatically qualified for and benefited from $66 million to build two major national roads on two different islands in the country. I wish to express our appreciation to the United States Government for its assistance. However, when the Report on Countries that are Candidates for Millennium Challenge Corporation Account Eligibility for Fiscal Year 2010 was released, Vanuatu failed to qualify. The reason was simply that the MCC was using World Bank criteria and graduated Vanuatu from the status of low-income country to that of low-middle-income country. In other words, the World Bank’s criteria may be totally different from the LDC criteria defined by the United Nations. I therefore wish to call on the United Nations, especially the Economic and Social Council, to ensure that the LDC definition and criteria used by United Nations agencies are compatible with those of the international financial institutions. The vast Pacific Ocean is our heritage and the prime means of livelihood of the people living in its island countries. Like other Pacific Island countries, Vanuatu continues to be exposed to and threatened by the negative impacts of climate change, such as coastal erosion, coral bleaching and ocean acidification. At the Forty-Third Pacific Islands Forum in the Cook Islands, the Forum leaders noted that many challenges remain in realizing benefits from the pledged new and additional targets of the Copenhagen Accord. In that respect, I would like to seize this opportunity to express our wish for United Nations assistance in facilitating effective responses to global climate change, particularly through the prompt implementation of adaptation measures, as well as mitigation efforts, climate change financing, capacity-building and international negotiations. While we tend to direct our main focus of attention towards global climate change, we must address other matters, such as environmental pollution, with the same exigency and rigor. The potential for permanent, irrevocable damage to the environment by marine pollution has been constantly highlighted by the scientific community and should not be tolerated. The future growth of international maritime traffic will further exacerbate the situation. Vanuatu urges all remaining States that have not yet done so to expeditiously sign and ratify the 1972 London Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter, as well as the 1996 Protocol thereto, and to promulgate and enforce legal regimes, both in the domestic and international arenas. At this point, I would like to reiterate the unnecessary risk to which we expose our children and ourselves by not taking a firm precautionary approach with regard to marine geoengineering practices, such as sub-seabed carbon sequestration and ocean fertilization. In our global efforts to combat climate change, the strict promotion of and adherence to only those responses that are environmentally sensible is our crucial responsibility, and I am not only speaking on behalf of a small island nation when I recall that, by forgetting the essentiality of the oceans as the very foundation of life on Earth, one neglects a vital guarantor of mankind’s future survival. As I conclude this speech, I have to make a last appeal to all assembled leaders. I urge them to take immediate action upon their return to their home countries to initiate the change that needs to come about if we wish to preserve a planet capable of providing our sons and daughters with a bright future. If the leaders of the industrialized countries want to achieve the proposed 1.5° C target, they have less than eight years left to close a vast mitigation gap. Who if not they can or will implement the required measures for that crucial change? This may well be their last chance. In their hands lie the hope and destiny of the world’s nations. It is a responsibility that they must assume not only for their own people, but for humankind as a whole. I am grateful for the opportunity to express my views in this forum. Long live our aspirations to create a better and a more secure world for everyone, and may God bless the United Nations.﻿I wish to convey my sincere congratulations to President Jeremić on his election to guide and oversee the important work of the General Assembly at this session. I must also congratulate his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser of Qatar, for his recently concluded term as the outgoing President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. During his term, he enhanced the profile and work of the General Assembly, and we are pleased that his presidency has decided to carry forward and build upon the shared theme of the settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means. Our Organization continues to draw strength from the steady leadership of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, in facing on a daily basis, together with the Secretariat, the increasingly volatile challenges and fast-evolving crises around the globe with unwavering commitment and steadfast determination. We remember those Organization personnel who have fallen fulfilling their duty, in the pursuit of our collective aspirations as reflected in the Charter of the United Nations. We were pleased with the convening earlier this week of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels. In all settings and all circumstances, including with respect to States such as Tonga, the rule of law is a core pillar and a fundamental component of the national fabric. Tongans take great pride in the enduring qualities of the 1875 Constitution and the early legal codes of 1839 and 1850 as instruments of visionary nation-building and, with reform over time, lasting peace and stability. They also laid the foundation for setting Tonga on a firm footing in the context of international relations with the global powers of the time, and set us on a path that ultimately has led to membership in the global body of our time, the United Nations. Tonga was therefore pleased to join other Member States in adopting the Declaration of the High-level Meeting (resolution 67/1). To expand and improve the role and impact of the rule of law at the national, regional and international levels requires the expertise and technical assistance available from the United Nations system, the relevant intergovernmental agencies and interested development partners, so as to be coordinated, continuous and coherent. This week’s outcome is a positive development for small jurisdictions such as Tonga in strengthening their capacity to address the political, social, economic and environmental challenges of our time. Building upon the Secretary-General’s historic attendance at last year’s meeting of the Pacific Islands Forum (PIF), a further meeting took place this week, for the first time, on the margins of this year’s general debate. The important outcome of the meeting provides a stronger and regular basis for high-level interaction, and the meeting allowed for an exchange of views on issues of mutual import and concern between PIF leaders and the Secretary-General. This year’s PIF meeting was hosted by the Cook Islands, and our communiqué gives proper focus to issues important to Tonga and the region, including sustainable development, climate change, the oceans, renewable energy and gender equality. Tonga, like other small island developing States, returned to Rio de Janeiro in June to the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) to chart a new global course for sustainable development. For many, if not all, small island developing States, that return amounted to a reaffirmation of the special and particular vulnerabilities, recognized in 1992, that make States such as Tonga unique. With other small island developing States, we are looking to advance, during this session of the General Assembly, the agreement reached in Rio on the holding in 2014 of a Third International Conference for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. That Conference should be hosted in the Pacific region. Against the background of the recent Rio+20 and the ongoing efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), such a Conference would represent an early but timely moment for small island developing States to take stock of implemented outcomes. In order to be successful, the Conference will require the strong and active participation of all small island developing States and a strong, responsive and cohesive United Nations system attuned to the issues facing them. Working towards such a Conference will provide a boost to ongoing national initiatives such as our Tonga strategic development framework and its priority objectives for 2011 to 2014. Tonga joined other States members of the Alliance of Small Island States yesterday, under the chairmanship of Nauru, in adopting a declaration focused on the continuing serious threat posed by climate change to the territorial integrity, viability and survival of all small island States. There is an urgent need to continue to address the security implications of climate change, including the impact on territorial integrity, the frequency and severity of climate-related disasters, the threat to water and food security, and the forced displacement of people. Our challenge to the international community, and to developed countries in particular, is to take the bold measures necessary to reduce emissions of all greenhouse gases to levels that will ensure a viable and meaningful future for small island developing States such as Tonga. To safeguard the survival of the smallest and most vulnerable States among us is to safeguard a viable future for all States. A rising tide may lift all boats, but it will drown us all. The coming meeting of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Qatar must advance the efforts of last year’s Durban Conference to bridge differences over key issues, such as those related to the future of the Kyoto Protocol, climate finance, closing the pre-2020 mitigation ambition gap and constructively addressing loss and damage associated with the impact of climate change, while bearing in mind the cost of adaptation in developing countries, such as Tonga. This year’s theme of the Pacific Islands Forum was “Large ocean island States — the Pacific challenge”. It built upon the positive outcomes of Rio+20 with regard to the conservation and sustainable use of the oceans and their marine environment, or what we call the blue economy. Like other Pacific neighbours, Tonga’s connection to its oceanic environment has a strong historical dimension. The ocean and its resources are more than an ancient pathway to a maritime and seafaring past among disparate islands. They potentially now represent a liquid highway to a more sustainable future for Pacific peoples. An eminent Tongan scholar, the late Mr. Epeli Hau’ofa, said: “We should not be defined by the smallness of our islands but by the greatness of our oceans. We are the sea. We are the ocean. Oceania is us.” As custodians of the ocean and its living and non-living resources, we have long appreciated that the health of the oceans is critical to maintaining a staple source of sustenance and livelihood for island communities. We welcome the focus of Rio+20 on sustainable fisheries and national capacity development, the importance of access and the role of small-scale and artisanal fisheries and women, and the need for concerted action to address the vulnerability of coral reefs and mangroves. As a party to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, Tonga is actively seeking to implement its obligations under the Convention, including through the timely negotiation of maritime boundary delimitation agreements with neighbouring States; effective participation in the work of the International Seabed Authority and the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf; implementation of related agreements, such as the 1995 Fish Stocks Agreement; and consideration of the potential development of further legal instruments, within the Convention’s framework, to reflect the new realities. During this International Year of Sustainable Energy for All, we welcome the Secretary-General’s high-level event this week, which was dedicated in part to addressing the continued development of renewable energy sources. With like-minded members of the Alliance of Small Island States, Tonga will build on the Barbados Declaration on Achieving Sustainable Energy for All in Small Island Developing States and on Rio+20 to implement its voluntary commitment to reducing its greenhouse-gas emissions and to improving energy security through a 50 per cent renewable energy mix by 2020. With the requisite financial resources, ongoing capacity-building, appropriate technology transfers and genuine partnership with dedicated development partners, such as New Zealand, Italy, Japan and the United Arab Emirates, national initiatives, like the Tonga Energy Road Map, will continue to develop and provide real benefit for Tongans. We are committed to a strong advocacy role on the Council of the International Renewable Energy Agency and to the critical work that it does in pursuing a more secure and sustainable energy path. Tonga joined the other States members of the Pacific Islands Forum in adopting the Pacific Leaders Gender Equality Declaration as an important part of the Pacific Islands Forum communiqué this year. It establishes a valuable political platform for investing in the empowerment and promotion of women and young girls as a vital part of Tongan society and the region’s future. We thank Australia for its investment in the Pacific Women Shaping Pacific Development initiative. The steps taken to promote and protect the interests of Tongan women and gender equality include the extension of paid maternity leave, within the public service, from one to three months; Government approval of a draft law on violence against women and children, which is to be tabled during the parliamentary session; Government approval of holding nationwide consultations towards consensus on ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women; the launch of a national study on domestic violence against women; and, most recently, last week’s launch of a social welfare scheme for the elderly, that is, those over 75 years of age. Without genuine improvement in gender equality, Member States will continue to struggle to achieve real progress towards meeting their commitments under the MDGs and beyond. In closing, on behalf of His Majesty King Tupou VI, Queen Nanasipau’u, the royal household, the Government and the people of the Kingdom of Tonga, I wish to convey our profound appreciation for the overwhelming messages of condolence and sympathy from Member States, the Secretary-General, the Secretariat and the General Assembly on the untimely passing earlier this year of our much-beloved King George Tupou V. I acknowledge in particular the assistance of the People’s Republic of China at that time. Though his reign may have been brief, it may yet prove timeless in enabling an environment where Tongans now exercise greater electoral democracy and enjoy a fully elected Government and a more representative Parliament. That may be his reign’s most enduring legacy.﻿Allow me very brief ly to address what are, in our opinion, some of the most important items on the agenda of this session of the General Assembly. First of all, today, in this century of globalization and rapidly changing situations and growing tensions and confrontations in many regions of the world, we need to come up with unconventional and extraordinary responses to crisis situations and wars that have been ongoing for many decades and are therefore persistent features of our agenda. To our great regret, instead of seeking to deeply understand emerging problems and confrontations in one region of the world or another and addressing them in a timely manner, finding their true origins or focusing the international community on preventing them from growing into large-scale crises and wars, the world is letting its most precious resource — time — slip through its fingers. That leads, of course, to enormous costs and the waste of other precious resources. Let me offer a few examples. As early as in 1993, President Karimov of the Republic of Uzbekistan, when he spoke before the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly (see A/48/PV.6), drew the international community’s attention to the need to immediately resolve the situation in Afghanistan, given the close connection between regional and global security, the need to respect the civil and religious rights of the people of Afghanistan and the need to prevent the conflict from growing into a full- scale civil war. Otherwise the problems in Afghanistan would turn into a painful and bitter issue of concern to the international community as a whole. Difficult problems may resurface when the imminent withdrawal of the International Security Assistance Forces from Afghanistan occurs by late 2014 and the responsibility for ensuring stability in the country is turned over to the newly created Afghan National Security Forces. It is obvious today that that turn of events may lead to a stand-off between opposing forces in Afghanistan itself and in neighbouring countries. It may also lead to the growth of extremism and radicalism, cause a surge in drug trafficking and aggravate tensions in the region as whole. As the situation is unfolding, the best way to address the situation in Afghanistan is to establish a contact group under the auspices of the United Nations with the participation of the country’s neighbours, the United States, NATO and the Russian Federation. The principal goal of such efforts should be to reach a compromise and an agreement between the opposing forces and form a coalition Government on that basis. Such a coalition Government could be comprised of the core ethnic, national and religious groups involved in the military and political stand-off taking place in Afghanistan. Uzbekistan has suggested that approach a number of times, for example, at the NATO summits in Bucharest in 2008 and in Chicago this year, as well as at the High-level Plenary Meeting on the Millennium Development Goals held in New York in 2010 (see A/65/PV.3). The Republic of Uzbekistan has always conducted, and will always maintain, a friendly, good- neighbourly policy towards its neighbour Afghanistan. Uzbekistan has built its relationship with Afghanistan on a bilateral basis, taking into account the national interests of both countries and respecting the Afghan people’s choice in terms of the future of their country. Today, Uzbekistan offers comprehensive forms of assistance to Afghanistan so that it may return once again to peace. Specifically, we have contributed to the construction of bridges, motorways and the strategic Khairaton-Mazar-e-Sharif railroad link, which connects Afghanistan with the States of Central Asia, as well as providing an uninterrupted supply of electricity to Kabul. Uzbekistan plays a key role in ensuring the stable and effective operation of the northern distribution network. Secondly, climate change and the global deteriorating ecological situation have made ensuring the reasonable and rational use of water resources the most acute problem of the modern world. Increasing shortages of fresh water, which is needed to provide food security and protect human life, serve to confirm that assertion. In that connection, I would like to present the Republic of Uzbekistan’s main approach to addressing those issues, which are of vital importance for all the States of Central Asia. We believe that all water and energy issues in our region, where the largest transboundary rivers — the Amu Darya and the Syr Darya — are the main sources of water and life for the millions of people residing near them, should be addressed in accordance with the universally recognized norms of international law provided for in the 1992 United Nations Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes and the 1997 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Non-navigational Uses of International Watercourses. Those instruments require adherence to the principle of doing no harm to the environment or to the interests of neighbouring States when exploiting the resources of transboundary rivers. It is therefore reasonable that Uzbekistan calls for those principles and standards to be our guides in the search for mutually acceptable compromise decisions on water use. We believe that all hydropower facility construction projects in the upper waters of the Syr Darya and Amu Darya basins should be evaluated by international experts under the auspices of the United Nations and agreed to by the downstream countries. Only after such agreement and coordination should construction begin on two proposed dams, which are practically the largest in the world, namely, the 350-metre-high Rogun hydropower station in the upper waters of the Amu Darya and the 275-metre-high Kambarata 1 station in the upper waters of the Syr Darya. Furthermore, that construction has to be carried out in mountainous terrain where seismicity levels can reach 9 to 10 points on the Richter scale. To comply with international requirements, it is essential to set priorities for water use. The region’s limited water resources must first be used to meet drinking and sanitary needs, and only after that to ensure food security and to meet ecological demands and the needs of the industry and power sectors. Thirdly, Uzbekistan remains committed to preserving peace, stability and security in the region. That principled position is stipulated in the Republic of Uzbekistan’s position paper on foreign policy activity, formulated on the initiative of the Head of State of Uzbekistan. In particular, the document includes the following important provisions. First, the Republic of Uzbekistan reserves the right to enter into alliances, join commonwealths and other inter-State establishments, as well as to leave them, guided by the supreme interests of the State, the people, their well-being and security, the priority guidelines for modernizing the country, existing national legislation and international obligations that have been assumed. The paper continues, stating that Uzbekistan maintains a peace-loving policy, does not participate in military- political blocs, and reserves the right to leave any inter-State body if the latter is transformed into a military-political bloc. Next, the Republic of Uzbekistan will take political, economic and other measures to prevent its involvement in military conflicts or hotbeds of tension in adjacent States and will not allow the deployment of foreign bases and facilities on its own territory. Next, the armed forces of the Republic of Uzbekistan will not participate in military operations abroad. Finally, the main priority concern of the foreign policy of Uzbekistan is the region of Central Asia, where the country’s crucial interests lie. The problems of Central Asia must be addressed by the countries of the region without interference from external Powers. Uzbekistan remains committed to pursuing an open, friendly and pragmatic policy towards its immediate neighbours, and proceeds from a position that all outstanding political, economic and ecological problems of the region should be addressed on the basis of the mutual consideration of interests, constructive dialogue and the norms of international law. We set great store by the United Nations as a universal structure and the only worldwide, universally accepted body capable of ensuring security, stability and consistent development, including in our region. Uzbekistan stands ready to continue to cooperate effectively with the Organization and its specialized bodies in order to achieve those high and noble goals.﻿We gather here every year to share our analysis, our views and comments on the course of world events. We also take this opportunity to share our concerns and to meet, interact and try to offer our best commitment to finding appropriate solutions to current and future challenges. A year has passed since the last session, and the world has continued to change. Development and economic growth in many countries have raised hundreds of millions of people above the poverty line. Societies throughout the world are taking a stand today, demanding more rights and asking for effective political participation. Democracy, human rights and increased participation by women in public and social life have all globally improved. Despite unprecedented global awareness, climate change remains a major source of concern. The continuing deterioration of the global economic climate is also a permanent source of anxiety everywhere. Threats to peace and security in various parts of the world show how far we still are from achieving the global security we want. It is therefore only fair that we expect the United Nations, the Organization we have placed at the centre of our international architecture, to be more responsive, efficient, effective and transparent. This year Albania celebrates the one hundredth anniversary of its independence. As we mark that important date and survey our history for the past 10 decades, we note with satisfaction that for more than half of that time the State of Albania has enjoyed successful cooperation and active participation in the life of the United Nations. Our commitment has grown over the years and has embraced almost every aspect of United Nations activity, including peacekeeping operations. In recent years we have devoted particular attention to the ongoing efforts to reform the Organization’s system. As that system has developed and its activities have become more complex, the need for greater coherence and efficiency within the Organization as a whole has grown pressing. That is particularly evident in the area of United Nations development assistance. In June, as one of the pilot countries for the Delivering as One approach, we hosted the fifth High- level Intergovernmental Conference on Delivering as One. The Tirana Conference adopted an outcome document with concrete and, we hope, valuable recommendations in the light of the approaching quadrennial comprehensive policy review. We know now that what started as a test idea has come a long way in a relatively short time. A growing number of countries are looking more clearly and closely at the benefits of seeing the United Nations operate and implement its assistance programmes with more coherence and efficiency. Delivering as One has convincingly shown in practice how the operational activities of the United Nations can be delivered with greater efficiency and how the system can do more and better and more with less in its efforts to help countries reach nationally and internationally agreed development goals. I am proud to represent a country and society widely known for their broadmindedness, tolerance and acceptance of others. Albanians are probably unique to our region in that, despite having endured centuries of difficulties in our history, we have always preserved and cherished the values of freedom and respect for the other that are fundamental to the modern concept of human rights. Albanians’ respect for one another’s rights and individuality is expressed first and foremost in an exemplary religious harmony. They have shown an outstanding acceptance of, and respect for, other cultures, ethnicities and civilizations, and have devoted special care and attention to those who have come seeking safe refuge from the horrors of war. Albanians have risked their own lives and far outspent their economic capacity in order to rescue and save those in need who came knocking at their door. It is against that backdrop that Albania remains a strong believer in dialogue among civilizations and continues to engage actively in bridging the differences among the wider membership on issues pertaining to the human rights agenda. That is why Albania, which currently presides over the Council of Europe, has chosen “United in diversity” as its theme. The dialogue among different cultures and civilizations should be seen as an ongoing process requiring dedication, goodwill and care. We cannot allow the sporadic reckless actions of disruptive groups to prevent us from making a genuine effort to reach a better understanding of one another in a world that is becoming more globalized every day. Although we were saddened and embittered by the worthless video that deliberately targets what Muslims everywhere consider sacred, Albanians, Muslims and Christians alike have expressed their indignation by simply ignoring such nonsense. We regret that the reaction to it in some parts of the world was different, used instead to fuel blind violence by angry, hopeless crowds, with fatal consequences. We must be clear: any form of terrorism or extremist act on the part of isolated, malevolent groups should never be confused with the position or identified with the attitude of an entire society or Government. No legitimate anger can excuse illegitimate violent acts that Governments, societies and political and religious leaders should firmly oppose. We condemn with indignation the terrorist act against American Consulate staff and premises in Libya and demand that the perpetrators be punished. We also condemn any act of violent protest against the Western embassies, whose mission it is to promote understanding and cooperation among countries and nations. With a foreign policy based on peace and good relations with all nations, its modest but important contribution to international missions aimed at safeguarding peace and human rights through a policy of good neighbourliness, as well as its efforts to play a moderate and constructive role in the region, Albania has become a direct contributor to stability and security on the regional and global levels. We are determined to maintain and further build on that record. Today, Albania participates in peacekeeping missions in several international operations within the framework of the United Nations and other regional security organizations, including in Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Iraq and more. My country acknowledges and supports every effort towards global peace and security and will continue to support the efforts of the United Nations, NATO and other actors to promote peace, stability and security around the world. Global peace and security continue to be challenged by tyranny and oppression in various parts of the world. We reiterate our strong condemnation of the ferocious repression of the freedom-loving people of Syria, whose blood is being shed through the primitive attacks on the part of a regime that has irretrievably forfeited its legitimate right to lead and represent the Syrian people. Let me join all those calling on the Security Council to step up and comply with its duty, as mandated in the United Nations Charter, to preserve peace and security. It is hard to believe that one can remain indifferent to events such as the terrible ones that have been unfolding every day in Syria for a year and a half, with tens of thousands of human losses and the widespread, deliberate destruction and suffering that have already set the country back by decades. Have we not already learned the hard lessons of similar mistakes in the past tragedies in Rwanda and Bosnia? Albania fully supports the peace process between Palestine and Israel. Albania reiterates its position in support of the two-State solution: a secure State of Israel and a viable State of Palestine, living side by side with each other in accordance with United Nations resolutions and the road map. The peoples of both Palestine and Israel are exhausted by that never- ending conflict, and their leaders should shoulder the responsibility of undertaking a legitimate quest for freedom and peace, with long-term vision and goodwill, and against extremists. The world longs to see the peace process in the Middle East shift from a pattern of stagnation and become an inspiring example of difficult yet indispensable compromises. Albania remains deeply worried by the Iranian nuclear programme, which continues to raise serious questions as to its nature instead of providing answers and guarantees, as requested over the years. We must prevent Iran from becoming a nuclear threat. In November this year, my country will celebrate the centenary of its independence. We will commemorate a century that saw a diversity of events, which were not always among the happiest ones. Many have described the Albanian people as survivors of harsh chapters of history. They are not wrong: the Albanian people have suffered unwanted wars, forced movement from their lands, assaults and attempts to annihilate them, unjust partitions and, during the second half of the twentieth century, bravely resisted five decades of communism. All this has come at a stiff price. Today we look to the future with hope, in a spirit of deliverance, and with strong confidence that the coming century will be marked by continuous peace, economic progress, and cultural and intellectual revitalization. Our region, which was once a troubled hotspot and a sick area of Europe, has been profoundly and positively transformed. Six new States have been born out of the former Yugoslavia in the course of the past two decades. We all know that it has not been easy, and we all know why. But what matters most is that everywhere in the region societies have evolved, the ghosts of the past have ceded their place to new realities, and people, in particular the young generation, are more than ever turned towards the future. Let me point out here that the establishment of the independent State of Kosovo five years ago has become an important factor of peace and stability in the South- east European region. It has become stronger and overcome all kinds of obstacles created by those who still cannot accept reality and face the truth. As time passes, independent Kosovo is being recognized and accepted by an increasing number of States — close to half of the States Members of the United Nations. The advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on Kosovo (see A/64/881), rendered in 2010 upon specific request from Serbia, clearly ruled that the independence of Kosovo was in conformity with the international law. Just a few days ago, the Republic of Kosovo reached another level of State consolidation with the end of the phase of independence supervised by the international community. I take this opportunity to congratulate the authorities of Kosovo on their continued progress in building and strengthening a democratic State and a multi-ethnic society, and I call on all those countries that have not yet recognized Kosovo to consider a review and assessment of that irreversible reality in the South-eastern European region. The recognition of Kosovo is an act of justice for a people that has suffered for too long, and represents a net contribution to peace and stability in the Balkans. We have already heard, and we are prepared to listen once again to the same old redundant arguments from Serbia regarding Kosovo. What war failed to do, propaganda will not achieve either. While Serbia’s leaders speak of partition and the redrawing of borders, and while they make troubling statements denying genocide in Srebrenica, one is right to ask whether the past continues to loom over the present there, obscuring reality and distorting their vision of the future. Albania has maintained strong positive economic growth despite the impact of the global financial and economic crisis. The pursuit of macroprudential policies and well-anchored structural reforms focusing on privatization, fiscal probity, trade liberalization, the business climate and the energy and financial sectors have enabled Albania’s economy to become the most resilient of the economies of South-east Europe. During the period from 2007 to 2012, average economic growth has been 5 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP), peaking in 2008 at 8 per cent of GDP. Since 2008, Albania has had a f lat tax of 10 per cent; corporate tax has decreased from 25 per cent to 10 per cent; personal income tax has dropped from 23 per cent to 10 per cent; and dozens of fees have simply been eliminated. The Global Competitiveness Report 2011-2012, published by the World Economic Forum, ranks Albania seventy-eighth out of 142 countries/economies. The World Bank report Doing Business 2012: Doing Business in a More Transparent World ranks Albania eighty-second out of 183 economies in terms of ease of doing business. In the areas of getting credit and of protecting investors, Albania ranks twenty-fourth and sixteenth, respectively, putting it among the top reformer countries. On our road towards sustained development, progress and prosperity, we remain fully engaged and committed to carrying out all reforms and taking all of the measures required to continue successfully on the path to European Union integration. This is not an alternative but a long-term choice carefully pursued over the years, and we are determined to make it happen. In the weeks ahead, we expect a favourable decision by the Council of Ministers of the European Union on our bid for the status of candidate country to the European Union. That merit-based decision will constitute another milestone in Albania’s journey to European integration and will place our commitments and our responsibilities at a higher stage of the process. In conclusion, let me assure the Assembly that Albania remains committed to international cooperation and is determined to continue to offer its contribution to advancing peace, freedom and security, and respect for human rights, fighting poverty, promoting sustainable development and prosperity, and, last but not least, protecting the environment.﻿I am pleased to address the Assembly for the first time since assuming the office of Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. We live in times of rapid changes, some of which are positive, others deeply troubling. The world is becoming more interconnected, which strengthens economic opportunities and accelerates development. Advances in science and technology are bringing measurable progress for humankind. The profound transformations in North Africa have raised the hopes of people for real democracy and freedom. However, there is also much that is disturbing. Conflicts in many parts of the world are wreaking havoc on innocent civilians. Our planet is experiencing growing environmental damage. The global financial and economic crisis is still negatively affecting the majority of countries in both the developing and the developed world. International peace and security are under strain from terrorism, extremism, poverty, inequality, human rights abuses and persecution. In confronting such challenges, Croatia acts in the global arena on the basis of two fundamental tenets. We stand ready to assume our responsibility towards our own citizens and our neighbours in the region and to be a constructive actor in Europe and a reliable partner to all peace-loving countries in the world. We actively promote solidarity with vulnerable groups and communities and with the poor, the needy, the defenceless and the underprivileged. Responsibility and solidarity are two central principles of our engagement in the United Nations in the pursuit of peace and security and in advancing freedom and democracy, protecting human rights, enhancing sustainable development, respecting international law, ensuring equality and social justice and promoting the rule of law. This year, Croatia marks the twentieth anniversary of its membership of our global Organization. We are grateful to the United Nations for playing an important role in our country’s struggle for political independence, international recognition and full territorial integrity. We have great expectations of the United Nations. As a beacon of multilateralism, it provides the only universal framework for finding common solutions to international crises and current challenges. However, we must ask ourselves whether the United Nations does enough and what we can do collectively to improve its performance. We support the United Nations reform process, which seeks to enhance its accountability, efficiency, effectiveness and transparency. United, we are stronger than alone. But let me stress something. If each of our countries becomes more democratic, more developed, better run, more stable and more responsible, our combined strength will rise exponentially. The topic of the general debate, namely, resolving international disputes by peaceful means, is at the very heart of the United Nations. The Organization was built to prevent war and to keep the peace. We highly value the instruments of preventive diplomacy and mediation and other peaceful means of resolving disputes. In particular, we see merit in resorting to the International Court of Justice, the Permanent Court of Arbitration and other existing institutions. We ourselves have done so. We agreed to settle the border issue with our neighbour, Slovenia, through arbitration. However, we must understand that, in the long run, peace cannot be imposed on parties to a dispute. Each situation has its own pace and dynamics. However, there should be no excuse for a lack of genuine effort. Moreover, without a thorough resolution of issues, there can be no room for a true reconciliation process to take place. In that vein, it is reassuring to note that support for the peaceful resolution of disputes comes from many parts of the world, including countries that have opted to use military means to settle disputes with their immediate neighbours in the recent past. Not everyone, however, shares equal respect for peace and international law. This year has been particularly unfortunate in terms of the efficiency of the United Nations in the area of conflict prevention, mediation and the protection of civilians. We have witnessed appalling events, and thousands of civilian victims have been exposed to heavy arms and the brutality of armed forces and paramilitary groups. The lack of univocal action against the most severe violations of the United Nations Charter is deeply troubling. We must resolutely counter such an obsession with violence and repression. We should not shy away from our responsibilities. At this juncture, I must strongly condemn the recent killing of the United States Ambassador to Libya. People come from different cultures, legal traditions, historical backgrounds and forms of Government. Violence can never be an acceptable response to freedom of speech. Like many previous speakers, I stress the importance of keeping strong international attention on Syria. We align ourselves with the position of the European Union on the situation in Syria. We see the need for prompt action on two fronts. The immediate priority is to stop the loss of life on both sides in the conflict, to provide humanitarian aid and assistance to the Syrian people and to support plans for the country’s economic and political stabilization. Further fighting and militarization will only exacerbate the suffering and make a peaceful resolution of the crisis more difficult. In addition, we have to remain committed to pursuing a Syrian-led political transition that will meet the democratic aspirations of the Syrian people. Resolving the crisis is our common responsibility. We therefore call unceasingly for the full respect of international law, especially international humanitarian law, human rights and refugee law. There is no peace without justice and there is no justice without the rule of law and without the fight against impunity. We support concepts of human security and the responsibility to protect, as well as their implementation and improvement through an open and constructive dialogue within the framework of the United Nations. We also support the work of the International Criminal Court. Undoubtedly, there are sufficient conflict prevention tools at our disposal. The question remains whether we can muster enough resolve to use them. Syria is the most recent and most striking example of the need for a greater role for preventive diplomacy and mediation in the early phases of a conflict. The later we engage, the more divided we are. Timely prevention is crucial for successful conflict resolution. Prevention is also indispensable for countering other threats that destabilize countries and societies. Let me cite an example. If a country is forced to fight corruption through its law enforcement bodies and the judiciary, that is usually a sign that it is too late, that corruption has already left its corrosive imprint on society. Our goal is to invest efforts aimed at building a society in which corruption is not an endemic phenomenon, in which elected officials in Government structures demonstrate responsibility towards their public office. That in turn encourages citizens to foster a corruption-free culture through their daily behaviour. When leaders lead by positive example, people tend to follow. That is because culture f lows from structure. That is also the reason why, at the level of the United Nations, we provide our full support to the implementation, wider acceptance and universalization of international legal instruments on non-proliferation, arms control and disarmament, countering terrorism and preventing corruption. The global economic crisis combined with the effects of globalization has contributed to the rise of popular distrust in the capability of political leaders to deliver needed solutions. That calls for greater responsibility, better governance and stronger cooperation among States, civil society and the private sector. The Croatian Government has made notable progress in making its work more transparent and more available to its citizens. As a member of the Open Government Partnership initiative, we have become active in the fields of fiscal transparency, access to information, information technology and civil society participation. We are pleased to host the Second European Outreach and Support Meeting of the Initiative on 4 and 5 October in Dubrovnik, where we expect to see the sharing of best practices and further promotion of cooperation between Governments and civil society organizations. Croatia has undergone an extensive but successful political, economic and social transition in a fairly short period of time. For that reason, we have a special understanding and first-hand experience of the interwoven nature of peace, security, development and the promotion and protection of human rights. Today we are sharing our knowledge and experiences with countries in the region of South-Eastern Europe and with countries emerging from crises, where our post-conflict understanding in nation- and institution-building is particularly relevant. Croatia is currently a Vice-Chair of the Peacebuilding Commission. My country stands ready to assume its responsibility for creating more relevant, better-performing and more empowered peacebuilding structures. Croatia has already joined the Civilian Capacity Project’s CAPMATCH initiative designed to address the State-building needs of fragile and conflict- affected countries by offering our help in various fields of expertise gained through our own political transition, post-conflict rehabilitation and unique European Union accession process. Promotion and protection of human rights at the universal level remains one of the cornerstones of the role of the United Nations in the world. Further development of the capacity of the Human Rights Council is of the utmost importance if we are to address seriously and efficiently urgent human rights situations and crises. We give special attention to continually improving the degree of respect accorded the fundamental human rights of women and girls in different post-conflict societies. Women and children do not have armies to protect them or trade unions to negotiate on their behalf. Yet, more and more women are becoming the primary breadwinners in their families. The empowerment of women and their full and equal participation in societies are prerequisites for security, economic opportunity, effective governance and social development. Croatia will also continue with its active contribution to the work of the United Nations human rights forums, in particular safeguarding the rights of vulnerable members of society, such as lesbian, bisexual, gay and transgendered persons, promoting the moratorium on the use of death penalty and ensuring the right to conscientious objection to military service. In times of economic uncertainty, be it due to financial crisis or long-term poverty, some tend to downplay the importance of human rights or of consolidating democracy. Every day we witness the sad realities of starving children, deaths from preventable communicable diseases, inadequate education and health systems, and the continuous degradation of the ecosystem. Challenges we are facing require integrated solutions across interconnected issues and the further strengthening of the multilateral architecture. We welcome the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development and encourage its follow-up process. We look forward to more energetic work on the implementation of sustainable development goals, which should complement existing commitments and encompass all three dimensions of sustainable development — economic, social and environmental — in a balanced and synergistic way. Croatia sees the Economic and Social Council and its subsidiary bodies as a cornerstone for the achievement of balanced integration of sustainable development. Croatia is firmly devoted to participation in those processes, in particular in the fields of education and gender equality. Education is a sector which builds a firm foundation for responding to the challenges of pursuing a post-2015 development framework. of human rights at the universal level remains one of the cornerstones of the role of the United Nations in the world. Further development of the capacity of the Human Rights Council is of the utmost importance if we are to address seriously and efficiently urgent human rights situations and crises. We give special attention to continually improving the degree of respect accorded the fundamental human rights of women and girls in different post-conflict societies. Women and children do not have armies to protect them or trade unions to negotiate on their behalf. Yet, more and more women are becoming the primary breadwinners in their families. The empowerment of women and their full and equal participation in societies are prerequisites for security, economic opportunity, effective governance and social development. Croatia will also continue with its active contribution to the work of the United Nations human rights forums, in particular safeguarding the rights of vulnerable members of society, such as lesbian, bisexual, gay and transgendered persons, promoting the moratorium on the use of death penalty and ensuring the right to conscientious objection to military service. In times of economic uncertainty, be it due to financial crisis or long-term poverty, some tend to downplay the importance of human rights or of consolidating democracy. Every day we witness the sad realities of starving children, deaths from preventable communicable diseases, inadequate education and health systems, and the continuous degradation of the ecosystem. Challenges we are facing require integrated solutions across interconnected issues and the further strengthening of the multilateral architecture. We welcome the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development and encourage its follow-up process. We look forward to more energetic work on the implementation of sustainable development goals, which should complement existing commitments and encompass all three dimensions of sustainable development — economic, social and environmental — in a balanced and synergistic way. Croatia sees the Economic and Social Council and its subsidiary bodies as a cornerstone for the achievement of balanced integration of sustainable development. Croatia is firmly devoted to participation in those processes, in particular in the fields of education and gender equality. Education is a sector which builds a firm foundation for responding to the challenges of pursuing a post-2015 development framework. Therefore, Croatia salutes the launching of the Secretary-General’s Education First initiative and is pleased that the Croatian President has been invited to join the steering group known as the Group of Member State Champions. I have already mentioned Croatia’s successful post- conflict transition. In addition to having joined NATO since 2009, Croatia will become the twenty-eighth member of the European Union (EU) next year. Our international engagement is visible and strong. Croatia has been an active participant in United Nations peacekeeping missions, and I praise our women and men who have risked their lives for the common good. We have been providing substantial contributions to international efforts to stabilize Afghanistan and improve the living conditions of its people, highlighting the need for the protection of human rights, in particular the rights of women and children. Croatia is also actively participating in EU meetings at a time when the Union is intensively trying to find ways of overcoming the crisis and assuming its rightful place in the world. Let me emphasize that Croatia greatly appreciates the role that the EU has been playing in the United Nations as a significant and positive force behind a number of initiatives. At the same time, for Croatia, the process of EU accession was primarily an exercise in institution-building and State transition. We built a stronger State so we can play a more substantive role in world affairs. The perspective of EU membership has proved to be the main motivator and catalyst for social and political reforms. We want our neighbours in South- Eastern Europe to undertake the same demanding but rewarding road. We do not intend to assume a mentoring role in the region, but we stand ready to share our experiences and contribute constructively to the reforms in neighbouring countries based on democracy and European values. A peaceful and prosperous South-Eastern Europe is in Croatia’s strategic interest. Our vision is not just a region devoid of war. We strive to achieve genuine political, societal and economic development. We want people, especially young women and men, to have better standards of living and better prospects, to live in a clean environment and in a well-organized State with fully functioning institutions, to speak less about what was and much more about what could be. That reminds me of a quotation by Croatian public health expert Dr. Andrija Štampar, a man who founded the World Health Organization decades ago, who once said that, “All people, regardless of whether they are rich or poor, have the right to be healthy!” I agree. Only healthy and self-confident people can shape a healthy and progressive society. It is our primary responsibility, individual and collective, to build such a world and bequeath it to our children.﻿At the outset, I would like to pay well-deserved tribute to Chris Stevens and his colleagues, who died in Benghazi for the same ideals as those of our common Organization, the United Nations. Next, I wish to convey the warm congratulations of the Malian delegation on the outstanding election of the new President of the General Assembly. That choice confirms the recognition, were such needed, of his qualities as a skilled diplomat. It is also a tribute to his country, Serbia, which maintains friendly and cooperative relations with my country. The President of the General Assembly can be assured of the Malian delegation’s complete readiness to work with him for the full success of his mandate. In the same spirit, I express my great appreciation to his distinguished predecessor, Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for the excellent manner in which he led the work of the previous session. I also take this opportunity to pay warm tribute to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his ongoing commitment to the ideals of the Organization. The settlement of international disputes by peaceful means, which the President proposed as the central theme of the general debate, is timely, as it is a part of Chapter VI of the Charter of the United Nations, whose relevant provisions aim to limit hotbeds of tension through negotiation, mediation, conciliation, arbitration, judicial settlement, resort to regional arrangements or agreements, or through other peaceful means. The subject is quite current, in the light of the many crises and conflicts that seriously threaten international peace and security. The settlement of disputes by peaceful means is particularly important for my country, Mali, as it is a country that is firmly attached to the ideals of peace and stability. Despite that, today it is undergoing one of the most difficult periods in its history. Its northern part has been occupied by armed groups consisting of fundamentalist terrorists, drug traffickers and criminals of every other sort. The most fundamental human rights are being violated continuously by a horde of heartless and lawless vandals. The Government of Mali has just requested the International Criminal Court to consider those odious acts, which are no more and no less than war crimes and crimes against humanity. Whipping, amputation, summary execution, rape, stoning and looting and destruction of cultural and historical monuments and sites are the daily lot of the afflicted and helpless people of northern Mali. That sad situation led the interim President of the Republic of Mali to request, on 1 September, the Economic Community of West African States for assistance in recovering the occupied territories and fighting terrorism. Similar requests have been made to the Security Council through the Secretary-General, as well as to the French Republic, the United States of America, the African Union and the European Union. However, I would like to firmly emphasize that a lasting solution to the situation in the Sahel requires stronger and more dynamic cooperation among the States of the Sahel-Saharan region. In that vein, the Government of Mali remains in favour of the convening of a meeting of heads of State and Government of the Sahel region, with the support of the United Nations and other partners, in order to support and strengthen capacities and the arrangement for coordinating existing regional mechanisms. In the specific case of our common area, the neighbouring countries of Algeria, Mali, Mauritania and the Niger have set up mechanisms, such as the joint operational military staff committee based in Tamanrasset, Algeria, and others involving joint patrols and the right of pursuit. But we must recognize that those mechanisms need to be fully operational. In that regard, I would like to call for the support of the international community for their effective implementation. My delegation would like to strongly emphasize that the aggression and occupation in the northern part of Mali is a major collateral consequence of the Libyan crisis, as indicated in the report of the joint United Nations/African Union mission to assess the impact of the Libyan crisis in the Sahel region (see S/2012/42). The Security Council considered that report in January (see S/PV.6709). The presence today of terrorist groups of various nationalities on our soil and in the Sahel region is a situation that should mobilize the entire international community to take joint, rapid and effective action, because that threat knows no bounds. Here I should like to reiterate the determination of the Government of Mali to continue the work that it has begun jointly with other core countries in the framework of the combat against terrorism, transnational organized crime and irredentist, subversive forces in the Sahelo-Saharan region. In parallel with that approach, I should like to reaffirm the commitment undertaken by the interim President and the Government of Mali to negotiate with our compatriots who are not terrorists. I have said it before and I will say it again from this United Nations rostrum: we in Mali are not afraid or ashamed of negotiating, but we will not negotiate with terrorists. We are not prepared to negotiate issues that call into question the integrity of our territory and the secular nature of the country. The situation in northern Mali due to the occupation has resulted in a deterioration in humanitarian conditions, which were already precarious owing to the f low of internally displaced persons and of people seeking refuge in neighbouring countries. Because of the crisis, more than 350,000 people have had to f lee northern Mali, including 84,000 internally displaced persons and more than 268,000 others who are refugees in neighbouring countries. The crisis has also hampered access to education for more than 560,000 school-age children, 300,000 of whom were in school before the crisis began. There has also been damage to educational facilities and equipment. In addition, 85 per cent of all teachers and 10,000 pupils have been displaced to the south, and 50,000 school-age children are now in neighbouring countries. Furthermore, schools have been occupied by flood-affected people in the south. As the Assembly is aware, Mali is facing tremendous humanitarian needs in terms of housing, food, health, education and nutrition for refugees, displaced persons and wage earners. During his stay in the region, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees stated on 31 July 2012 that the crisis in Mali was “one of the most neglected humanitarian situations in the world”. He said that from an appeal for $153 million, his Office had received only about $49 million to deal with that humanitarian crisis. The Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs, Ms. Valerie Amos noted during her visit to Mali in August that $213 million was needed to deal with the humanitarian crisis that is currently affecting my country. That shows that the humanitarian situation is continuing to deteriorate, thus increasing the cost of intervention. Here I would like to reiterate the gratitude of the people and the Government of Mali to all brotherly countries and all partners of goodwill for their hospitality in hosting our compatriots and for their generous contributions. I therefore call for a greater mobilization by all of Mali’s partners and friends as well as the coordination of aid for Mali nationals who are displaced or refugees. Our Government of National Unity was established on 20 August 2012, with the fundamental mission of quickly liberating the northern regions of the country and of holding democratic, transparent, just and credible elections. With a view to recovering territorial integrity, we are calling for the adoption by the Security Council of a resolution authorizing, under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, intervention by an international military force so as to help the Malian army to retake and ensure the security of our national territory. The Government of Mali would like to see the immediate arrival of such a force to support the defence and security forces of Mali in carrying out their noble mission of recovering and maintaining our territorial integrity and of protecting persons and property. The people of Mali continue to hope that the members of the Security Council will give due consideration to that request. I should therefore like to take this opportunity to reiterate the gratitude of the people and the Government of Mali to the Economic Community of West African States, the African Union and to the United Nations for their ongoing efforts to put a lasting end to the crisis in Mali, which also threatens the stability of the subregion and of Africa, and even beyond. Our meetings are taking place at a time when developing countries are facing many major challenges, in particular the consequences of the economic and financial crisis, the burden of external debt and a decline in development assistance. There is therefore a need to undertake a more in-depth dialogue on new strategies aimed at mobilizing additional stable and predictable resources so as to ensure financing for development programmes and the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, in particular in the areas of health, education, food security and the environment. Climate change is one of the major challenges facing the world. The very survival of our planet is threatened by natural disasters caused by that phenomenon, which is seriously affecting living conditions in countries of the Sahel such as mine through, inter alia, the inexorable advance of the desert; the silting of rivers, in particular the river Niger; ecosystem deterioration; f loods; and problematic precipitation patterns. I should like to highlight the need to find appropriate responses to this serious situation so as to avert tragic repercussions for sustainable development in the most vulnerable countries. The United Nations has a pivotal role to play in the building of a new world order that is based on justice, solidarity and sustainable development. In order to tackle current and future challenges, it is important that the current mode of functioning of the United Nations be reviewed so as to take into account the new configuration of the world, which is fundamentally different from that which prevailed at the time of its founding. Such a review should, inter alia, make it possible to correct the historical imbalance that results in the continued exclusion of Africa from the limited circle of the countries that are permanent members of the Security Council. To conclude, I hope that all present will agree with me that the situation in Mali is a manifestation of security problems in the Sahel and that it should be dealt with comprehensively through the appropriate United Nations mechanisms. It is therefore urgent to act, first of all to put an end to the suffering of the people of Mali, and secondly to prevent the development of a similar or worse situation for other peoples in the Sahel, or even the rest of the world. It is also urgent to act because criminal and terrorist activities in northern Mali and the security risks that they pose for the entire subregion are in the long term a serious threat to the rest of the world. Finally, it is urgent to act so as to resume cooperation with our bilateral and multilateral partners so as to consolidate a republic based on secular and democratic values. Today my people are seriously affected. But Malians have not lost hope, because they are convinced of the support of other nations, whose leaders and respresentatives are here. Malians in both the north and the south legitimately await their active solidarity to emerge from the crisis. My people are convinced that their appeal for international solidarity will be heard and followed up with appropriate measures. Malians know that nations have the means. They look forward to decisive and diligent action. At stake is the stability and security of our subregion, of Africa and of the world.﻿Let me begin by congratulating Mr. Jeremić on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. My delegation assures him of its full support in the discharge of his responsibilities. I also take this opportunity to place on record our profound appreciation to the outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for having successfully presided over the sixty-sixth session of the Assembly. Let me also express our sincere gratitude to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his strong commitment and dedication in serving the United Nations. In establishing the United Nations at a time when the world was emerging from the ashes of successive devastating wars, our founding fathers envisioned a peaceful, stable, just and prosperous world. Nearly seven decades later, the lofty objectives of the United Nations Charter are yet to be fully realized. Threats to international peace and security remain unabated, with traditional sources of threats continuing alongside the emergence of new sources and forms of conflict. In fact, the sense of insecurity seems to be more pervasive today as people around the world continue to face a wide range of situations, characterized by the legacy of colonialism, injustice, domination, exploitation, hatred, intolerance, exclusion, xenophobia and so on. Economic insecurity in the face of the heightened global economic and financial crises and fierce competition for dwindling resources and energy security also play their part in generating tensions in many parts of the world. The concept of collective security being the core pillar of the United Nations Charter has often been undermined through recourse to dispute-settlement means that are outside the purview of a multilateral mechanism. Unilateralism and the selective interpretation of the provisions of the Charter risk inciting more conflict and confrontation rather than understanding and cooperation. That necessitates wider respect and observance of the principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and non-interference as the bedrock principles of international relations. Those principles cannot and should not be put to the political test under any circumstances. The growing challenges do not mean that the role and importance of the United Nations have diminished, but rather demand a more effective and stronger Organization. We must internalize that reality and move forward, grasping the true spirit of its founding principles and purposes. Nepal supports a just and lasting solution to the Middle East. It is our principled position to support the legitimate right of the Palestinian people to self- determination and a fully independent and sovereign Palestinian State on the basis of the United Nations resolutions. The peaceful and secure coexistence of the independent States of a sovereign Palestine and Israel are crucial to ensuring lasting peace in the Middle East. We call for an end to the violence and the peaceful resolution of the Syrian crisis by the Syrian people themselves. The sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of Syria must be upheld. We are of the firm opinion that the protracted embargo on Cuba is unjustified and needs to be ended immediately and unconditionally. We recognize the legitimate rights of every sovereign State to pursue the development of nuclear technology solely for peaceful purposes and under effective international supervision. We stand firmly against nuclear proliferation, the arms race and the misuse of nuclear technology for ulterior motives. We strongly oppose and renounce violence and physical attacks on diplomats anywhere under any pretext. We reiterate our call for general and complete elimination of nuclear and all other weapons of mass destruction in a time-bound manner. The international community should work in unison to strengthen controls over small arms and light weapons to prevent their pervasive abuse by criminal elements. It is heartening to note that, as a major troop- contributing country, Nepal has already provided over 92,000 professional and dedicated peacekeepers to the United Nations for various operations since its first participation in 1959. We remain steadfast in our commitment to international peace and security and affirm that our contribution to that noble cause will continue. While calling for timely reforms in that f lagship activity, we stress the importance of equitable representation of troop-contributing countries, at the leadership level, both at United Nations Headquarters and in field missions. I would like to reaffirm Nepal’s unreserved condemnation of terrorism wherever it occurs and in all its forms and manifestations. We renew our call for an expeditious conclusion of the negotiations on a comprehensive convention on international terrorism. As we continue to combat terrorism, we must not forget that durable peace can be built only on the firm pillars of the prevention of conflict, the peaceful resolution of disputes, persistent efforts for disarmament, poverty reduction, development and respect for diversity, fairness and justice. There is a need to differentiate between terrorism and struggles for liberation, freedom and sustainable peace and development. Our commitment to democracy, human rights, the rule of law and inclusive development is unf linching. The mutually reinforcing effects of such principles foster the active participation of the people in governance processes towards safeguarding peace, security and development. To address Nepal’s post-conflict transition needs, we have established mechanisms and processes for the protection and promotion of human rights and for their monitoring at the highest level and at various tiers of the sub-national level. As a party to 22 human rights conventions, including seven core instruments, we have established several laws that ensure the rights of all sectors of society, including women, children and marginalized and deprived communities. We are committed to controlling cross-border human trafficking and to doing our utmost to ensure that the rights and interests of migrant workers are protected in countries that are destinations for labour. The National Human Rights Commission, which is an independent constitutional body, operates as the country’s all-powerful watchdog for the protection and promotion of human rights. We are committed to strengthening that specialized national institution as a true custodian of human rights. Nepal has provided shelter to a large number of refugees on humanitarian grounds. While we appreciate the assistance of the international community in supporting refugees, we reiterate that their voluntary repatriation to their homeland with dignity and honour is the only durable solution to the refugee problem. We underscore that the rule of law at the international level is as important as at the national level in ensuring the sovereign equality of all States, respect for their territorial integrity and political independence and non-intervention in their internal affairs. Those are essential principles for peaceful coexistence and mutual cooperation among States. The issue of sustainable development has come to the forefront of today’s global discourse. It was the focus of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20). We believe that we need to pursue not only sustainable development goals, but also a development path towards equal prosperity through meaningful development opportunities by eradicating the deeply entrenched inequalities and global exploitative practices. In our opinion, freeing all human beings from the dehumanizing clutches of poverty and hunger should be the first essential step towards that end. The outcome document of Rio+20 (resolution 66/288, annex) sets out a broad framework for global action for “The future we want” and a post- 2015 global development agenda. The need of the hour is to ensure effective implementation. As we all have come to realize, climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. Its insidious effects are visible everywhere and are compounded by disasters of increasing magnitude and frequency. Countries like Nepal, which make a negligible contribution to greenhouse gases but have to bear the disproportionate brunt of the impacts of climate change, deserve special assistance in creating and maintaining climate-resilient societies. Negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change should continue to be guided by the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities in letter and spirit. Nepal hopes that the successor mechanism of the Kyoto Protocol ensures binding commitments and climate justice. The various funding mechanisms for climate change adaptation and mitigation measures must be activated, and action must be taken on an urgent basis. The world we live in is more unjust today than when we inherited it. Contrary to much-touted popular belief, the profusion in knowledge, the revolution in science and technology and increased mobility in ideas and global capital, though often termed as advancements characteristic of the modern world, have failed to deliver significant contributions to making our planet safer and more just. They could have, but that is not the reality. It is an irony that our capacities to produce goods and services have increased manyfold, leading to an unprecedented accumulation of wealth, but over one third of the world’s population is forced to live in abject poverty. The rapid globalization of finance and an unsustainable consumption of resources have made a few people enormously rich at the cost of the rest, making for the greatest inequality among human beings ever in history. Obviously, the transformative power of globalization has not been utilized for the benefit of the masses. The direction and pattern of the current form of economic globalization therefore call for a change in its mode of operation so that it becomes more inclusive and responsive to the needs of poor and marginalized people. Nepal views the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) and the Group of 77 and China as important multilateral forums that should play an active role in advancing the United Nations agenda, in line with the Charter objectives of pursuing the shared goals of peace, progress and prosperity. The principles and purposes of NAM are of continued relevance in forging developing countries’ collective moral resolve to create an equitable, fair and just world order, combating the conservative forces of repression, invasion, intimidation and injustice. The ideals of NAM, as reiterated at its recently held sixteenth summit in Teheran, go a long way towards fostering better understanding and cooperative relations among countries and peoples of the world. The least developed countries (LDCs) are suffering from dehumanizing marginalization and deprivation of the basic necessities of life. This state of affairs is a blemish on the sheer aff luence achieved in the globalized world. Global sustainable development will not be possible without sustainable development for the LDCs, including substantial improvement in the quality of life of their 880 million people. The world must pay due attention in deeds as well as in words to the special and different needs and requirements of the LDCs. The landlocked LDCs (LLDCs), among which Nepal figures, have to bear the additional disadvantages of physical and non-physical barriers in trade. That results in increased transactional costs for transit transport, which renders their international trade uncompetitive. Transit countries, regional groups, the international financial institutions and other development partners should work together to overcome those difficulties by investing in transport infrastructure links and trade facilitation measures. We underline the central role of the United Nations in promoting the development agenda, taking into account the special needs and development challenges confronting the LDCs, the LLDCs and other vulnerable groups of countries. Timely and ongoing reforms of the United Nations are necessary to strengthen and revitalize this world body so that it can respond to increasing global challenges. The General Assembly must be strengthened and endowed with decision-making power and authority commensurate with its global representation. Nepal supports the expansion of the Security Council in both member categories and hopes to see greater accountability and transparency in its working methods. The Economic and Social Council must be strengthened for the promotion of international economic cooperation, coordination, policy review and dialogue. It must also formulate and develop the social and economic agenda and work for the implementation of agreed international development goals, with special emphasis on development for LDCs, LLDCs and small island developing States, among others. We seek an increased role for the United Nations system in global economic governance, with strengthened coordination and cooperation with the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization, to reflect the dynamics of change. Let me brief ly say a few words about the current situation in my country. The historic task we face is still to positively conclude the historical transition we are undergoing as early as possible. We need the Constituent Assembly to promulgate a new constitution and we need to finally complete the peace process. Based on the historic people’s movement of 2006, which was the culmination of many decades of struggle by the Nepalese people against autocracy, we abolished the monarchy and established a republican State. We also adopted other important principles, such as secularism, federalism and inclusive, proportional representation and participation, although they are yet to be codified in a new constitution. The Constituent Assembly was elected for the first time in Nepal’s political history in 2008 and was mandated to draft a constitution addressing the aspirations of the people for change, a restructuring of the State and an end to all forms of exploitation and discrimination based on class, ethnicity, gender and region. The Constituent Assembly worked for four years to draft the new constitution and completed 80 to 90 per cent of the drafting, but never finalized the text. Not having met its deadline, and after the Supreme Court ruled against extensions, it was dissolved on 27 May this year. We have made qualitative progress on the technical side of the peace process, mainly the integration of former Maoist combatants. There is no outstanding problem left in that regard and the process is near completion. A transitional justice mechanism is in place to promote the peace and reconciliation process needed for the completion of the peace process. But we have yet to find a solution to the Constituent Assembly’s inability to create a constitution. Political parties are engaged in dialogue and negotiations in that regard and are seriously committed to finding a consensus solution. National consensus is the only option to find a way out of the current impasse. We hope we will be able to do so without excessive delay. As we go through the process of institutionalizing change, we are of the firm belief that democracy, development and peace are interrelated and interdependent. By “democracy”, we mean inclusive and participatory democracy, and by “development” we mean people-centred development with social justice and socioeconomic transformation. Without democracy and development, there cannot be lasting and sustainable peace. And democracy, development, peace and stability should safeguard national sovereignty. Thus democracy, development, peace and national sovereignty are the major components of our process of change. From our experience, we can say that democracy has both universal and particular aspects. We thank the international community, including the United Nations, for its continued support for and cooperation in our peace and constitution-making process from the very beginning, and hope that it will continue in the future. Nature has blessed us with an outstanding mountain range with gushing rivers, incredible biodiversity and a landscape spectrum of contrast and vibrancy. We are equally rich in ancient cultural heritage, multiple ethnic cultures and a diverse mosaic of hardworking people. We need a stable and peaceful environment if we are to make effective use of those diverse endowments for socioeconomic transformation, along with ongoing State restructuring. Only then will it be possible to translate the historic achievements we have made on the political front into tangible results in economic and human development terms. As a symbolic gesture to institutionalize peace for development in the national, regional and global contexts, we want to develop Lumbini, the birthplace of Lord Buddha, the apostle of peace, into an international city of peace. In that respect, we call for international support and cooperation to realize the initiative. In conclusion, I would like in all humility to draw the attention of all world leaders to the core reality that if we do not reach the goal of global peace and prosperity together, then nobody will. That is why we must act together accordingly.﻿At the outset, I would like to offer the President and his friendly country, the Republic of Serbia, my warmest congratulations on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I would also like to express my appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, from the brotherly State of Qatar, for the exemplary way in which he conducted the work of the previous session. I would also like to take this opportunity to convey my appreciation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his role and efforts in improving the Organization’s working mechanisms, and to wish him every success in his endeavours. The record of the United Nations includes numerous positive and tangible achievements that have helped to promote international peace and security and reach a political consensus on many regional and international issues. In our Middle East region, the Syrian crisis continues to be of great concern, owing to the great loss of life and property that it has caused and the instability that it has produced in the region and the world as a whole. Despite the efforts of the United Nations and the League of Arab States, the parties involved in the Syrian crisis have failed to reach a peaceful solution that could spare the lives of the Syrian people. We call on our brothers in Syria to renounce violence, end hostilities and launch a political process that will fulfil the aspirations and hopes of the Syrian people and preserve Syria’s security, stability and unity. At the same time, we call on the Security Council, the international body primarily responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security, to reach consensus on a unified position on the Syrian crisis, without political disagreements and without bias towards any side, by way of starting a serious national dialogue between all political forces in Syria, with no exceptions. We believe that the principles and guidelines for a Syrian-led process of transition, as contained in the final communiqué of the Action Group for Syria (S/2012/523, annex), issued at its meeting in Geneva in mid-2012, could form the basis for a solution, if agreed on and accepted by all Syrian and international parties. The conflicting interests among some countries and their disagreements on how to address the Syrian conflict no longer serve any purpose, because the time has come to take collective action that can preserve security, stability and development for every country in the Middle East, especially since the alternative would be the spread of violence, killing, destruction and chaos. We believe that it is not in the world’s best interests to allow the Middle East to become another global f lashpoint. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that my country welcomes the appointment of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi as the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria. We hope that he can provide practical and concrete proposals to pull Syria out of the current cycle of violence and killing. We are aware of the complexities that arise in any discussion of the question of Palestine at sessions of the Assembly. We all know, however, that while the United Nations has explored every avenue and adopted many resolutions and policies on the Palestinian question, that issue continues to be a cause for concern and a source of unending threats and conflicts in the Middle East and beyond. We believe, therefore, that the role of the United Nations with regard to the question of Palestine should change from one of managing the crisis to one of seriously seeking a just, lasting and comprehensive political solution that would take into account the interests of both Palestinians and Israelis and lead to the establishment of a State of Palestine, living side by side with the State of Israel. In that context, my country supports Palestine’s application for non-member State observer status at the United Nations, hoping that that will usher a new phase in the Palestinian- Israeli negotiations and one that could make a positive contribution to settling the issue. The Somali people have long suffered from an absence of security, stability and State institutions and bodies; we therefore welcome the formation of the new Somali Parliament and the election of Mr. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud as President of Somalia. We hope that his Government will be able to achieve national reconciliation and establish security and stability throughout Somalia. provide support and assistance, whether political, economic or humanitarian, to the Somali people, we urge the Somali factions and parties from various political and tribal affiliations and organizations to reject violence, cease hostilities and place the higher interest of the nation above all others. We believe that a national dialogue, involving all parties in the Somali conflict, regardless of their ideological and political differences and inclinations, is essential and will help restore security, stability and nation-building in Somalia. We would like to commend the international efforts to combat piracy and the armed robbery of merchant vessels in the Indian Ocean, particularly in the Arabian Sea. The Sultanate of Oman, which is located on the Arabian Sea, reaffirms its continuing support for international efforts to eradicate the problem, and will cooperate with countries that have a naval presence in the area in order to protect international trade and navigation. From the outset, the Sultanate of Oman has supported the proposal to establish a zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. In that regard, we welcome the Review Conference of Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, scheduled to be held in Finland at the end of this year. We hope it will be able to officially declare the Middle East a zone free from nuclear and all other weapons of mass destruction, similar to other such zones that have been established elsewhere in the world. At a time when Muslims are trying to promote a culture of tolerance and coexistence, we note that there are those who abuse their right to express themselves by deliberately slandering monotheistic religions and prophets and messengers of God. My country condemns the video slandering the Prophet Muhammad — peace be upon him — which clearly and deliberately sought to spread a culture of hatred against Muslims. Despite the gravity of the offence, we reject escalating the reaction to a level resulting in attacks against diplomatic missions and representatives, such as those against United States and other Western diplomatic missions. Against the backdrop of those events and similar incidents earlier, we believe that it is incumbent on the United Nations to adopt international legislation that would hold accountable those responsible for any deliberate abuse of and slander against the sanctity of people’s beliefs, with a view to deterring others who may attempt to spread hatred among people. The world today is facing a genuine threat of food shortages, owing to the steady increase in the world’s population and the problems facing the global economy, which have resulted in the famines currently plaguing many parts of Africa, Asia and Latin America. There is no doubt that addressing that problem will require us to undertake a practical study of alternatives that could alleviate the negative impacts of food shortages. Among the ideas we deem worthy of exploring is the establishment of a global food reserve system to deal with food shortages, with food reserve centres located in various continents of the world and managed through an international fund specifically established to support the system. States, international institutions and sovereign funds that have the capacity to contribute to the fund would also be allowed to do so. We are of the view that the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, in the light of its expertise in that field, could be the appropriate body to oversee the preparation and implementation of such a study. We would like to take this opportunity to encourage industrialized countries to increase their investment in agricultural research and to utilize science and technology in their search for innovative solutions aimed at increasing food production so as to keep pace with the steady increase in the global demand for food. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate my country’s support for all international efforts to achieve the aspirations of peoples to a safer, more stable and prosperous world.﻿I wish to say, before my printed remarks begin, some words not circulated in the text. It is a particular privilege and honour to represent my country in this forum, having returned here through the magic of democracy after five years. For the first time since the general election in May, our country now reaffirms its re-engagement in and with the world community. We are part of the larger Caribbean region, and in that context we took part in a meeting with the Secretary-General of this body. We thank him for his courtesy. However, it is important that the representation of the Bahamas on regional engagement with the United Nations not be misinterpreted as a complaint about lack of attention by the Secretariat. It was not based on petulance but on the simple fact that the United Nations in all its organs and manifestations must live up to its creed that all nations in this body are equal, and not create the impression that some are more equal than others. Our delegation will continue to ensure that the guiding principle of that equality and equity is adhered to strictly. I would like to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his assumption of his duties as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to assure him of my delegation’s support and cooperation throughout. I also commend his predecessor for his stewardship over the previous session. I also wish on this occasion to express thanks for the stellar work and contribution to our country of our Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Ambassador Paulette A. Bethel. The Bahamas commends the United Nations for the convening and the outcome of the High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels last Monday. The Bahamas has committed itself to the principle of the rule of law and to ensuring the continuation of good governance for the benefit of the entire populace of the Bahamas. The Bahamas is committed also to adhering to the rule at law at the international level and to upholding the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. The Bahamas commends the convening in June 2012 of the third biennial review of the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy. The Bahamas unequivocally condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and reiterates its commitment to the fight against terrorism and to the Strategy’s full implementation. The Bahamas renews its call for the timely conclusion of negotiations on a draft comprehensive international convention for the elimination of terrorism. The Bahamas condemns in the strongest possible terms the violence that resulted in the deaths of Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other United States diplomats a few weeks ago. We in the international community must commit wholeheartedly and sincerely to creating a culture of peace throughout the world, underpinned by tolerance and understanding, that precludes such outrageous occurrences and their causes. The level of armed violence and crime plaguing our society — due in large part to the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons and trafficking in narcotics, neither of which our country manufactures or supplies — is increasing and cannot be allowed to continue if we are to save successive generations from a life steeped in violence and lawlessness. It has been more than a decade since the adoption in 2001 of the United Nations Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. Yet there has been no abatement in the level and intensity of armed violence impacting our country. The Bahamas welcomes the recent convening and successful outcome of the United Nations Conference to Review Progress Made in the Implementation of the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. The Government reiterates its unwavering commitment to the full implementation of the Programme of Action. The lives of too many of our young people are being destroyed by the use of illicit weapons in our country. Now is the time to act. Creating a safe Bahamas is a top priority for the Government. We are committed to the creation of a national intelligence agency and a national firearms control strategy, including the establishment of a firearms department and database, as well as to the enhancement of the operations of the country’s Defence Force so that it can more effectively control the porous borders of the Bahamas. I would like to take the opportunity to thank the United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs and the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean for their support and provision of equipment and capacity-building assistance in the area of firearms destruction and stockpile management. The Bahamas was pleased to conclude an agreement with the United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs last April and to have participated in a number of regional training programmes and workshops sponsored by the Regional Centre on the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons and the strengthening of border controls. The Bahamas joins other delegations in expressing our profound disappointment at the outcome of the United Nations Conference on the Arms Trade Treaty held in July and the failure of Member States to agree on a text despite six long years of protracted negotiations. The Bahamas supports the views articulated by the delegation of Trinidad and Tobago on behalf of the Caribbean Community during the month- long Conference. What we say to thousands of innocent victims is that their voices must be heard. But what do we say to them and their families, who are suffering as a result of the irresponsible and unregulated international transfer of conventional arms? Commitment and a reassessment of human life and dignity versus profit are critical if we are to prevail in our fight against the scourge of armed violence and terror plaguing our societies. We look forward to a successful outcome in the next round of negotiations. The Bahamas solemnly reaffirms its commitment to the three pillars of sustainable development: economic, social and environmental. Advancements continue nationally in important areas pertaining to the protection of our biodiversity and development of policies to promote renewable energy. Some argue that finding out how to provide reliable and affordable energy may be the single largest factor affecting the future development of the Bahamas. The issue of energy is so important that the Prime Minister has made it as a personal mission to seek to solve the issue. We know that we must do it sustainably. The Bahamas has enacted legislation to foster the sustainable use and management of ecosystems through better land-use planning. Under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, we have initiated actions to preserve our fish stocks by introducing penalties for overfishing. We have also taken action to ban long-line fishing, to establish the Bahamas as a sanctuary for sharks and to establish and expand marine protected areas. For the Bahamas, it is imperative that those sustainable development strategies be complemented with appropriate actions taken by the international community. In that connection, we view the historic outcome of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) as offering significant opportunities, particularly for small island developing States (SIDS). We are encouraged by the international community’s call for continued and enhanced efforts to assist SIDS in implementing the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation. The Bahamas also welcomes plans to convene the Third International Conference on Small Island Developing States and will participate actively in the upcoming General Assembly consultations to determine the modalities of the meeting with a view to ensuring a successful outcome. The Bahamas is also encouraged greatly by the decision taken at Rio+20 to undertake work on universal, action-oriented, sustainable development goals. In that work we must take into account different national realities, capacities and levels of development and must respect national policies and priorities. The Bahamas hopes to work in the context of the open-ended working group for the development of the sustainable development goals as well as in the intergovernmental committee on financing, agreed at Rio+20, to ensure that our special concerns are fully addressed. In that connection, the Bahamas looks forward to the recommendations of the Secretary-General’s High- level Panel on global post-2015 development planning and commends the level of female participation therein. The convening of the Panel offers a major opportunity to learn from the mistakes of the past and build a vision for global development beyond mere crisis management. The Panel must be seen to operate with open transparency. It should also incorporate the views of geographical and economic anomalies such as those of the Caribbean subregion, and be innovative and forward-looking. The Bahamas welcomes the acknowledgement at Rio of the need to address the adverse impacts of climate change. The Bahamas believes that the United Nations has a central role to play in global economic governance. The Bahamas welcomes the efforts of the Group of 20 (G-20), particularly Mexico in the role as current Chair, in helping to translate G-20 deliberations into effective actions on a global scale through broad consultation among Member States and with the United Nations itself to find solutions to many of the major challenges of our times, most particularly with respect to strengthening the international financial system. The Bahamas also envisions a greater role for the United Nations in the area of international cooperation in tax matters. The Bahamas, along with the wider Group of 77 and China, continues to call for the conversion of the United Nations Committee of Experts on International Cooperation in Tax Matters into an intergovernmental subsidiary body of the Economic and Social Council, in keeping with the Doha mandate. We also continue to deplore the use by some States of their domestic laws for extraterritorial effect in such areas as human trafficking, financial services and drug smuggling. We continue to believe that those laws with extraterritorial effect are misplaced and put an unfair burden upon small States and that they may be interpreted as a departure from the international norms of respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States. In order to reverse current economic trends, one of the core imperatives of the Government of the Bahamas is the strengthening of the domestic economy and the attendant creation of jobs, the broadening of Bahamian ownership in the economy and the attainment of a higher standard of living. Creating job opportunities and reversing the unacceptable unemployment situation in the country, which currently is at a high rate, have been identified at the highest political level as the most critical near-term priorities for the Government, especially in relation to young Bahamians. I wish to speak especially on their behalf today. The young Bahamian sector of our country has been most severely affected by the unemployment problem, and the rate of unemployment is unacceptable and cannot continue. We are committed to solving youth unemployment. The Bahamas underscores the need for enhanced policy dialogue and international cooperation on the question of building green economies, which will indeed require new investments, skills formation, technology development and transfer and capacity-building. The gross national income of the Bahamas is significantly affected by a small population of wealthy expatriates whose high incomes skew the measure away from the true economic realities. The construct of per capita gross national income, therefore, takes on a unique interpretation in the context of developing countries like the Bahamas and, I would daresay, the Caribbean subregion. The Bahamas continues to be deserving of considerations that will not deny us the right to develop sustainably, supported by financial, human and technological resources. Gross national income per capita should not be used as a pretext to restrict our access to financial assistance. The General Assembly is set to consider, during this sixty-seventh session, the scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations regular budget and peacekeeping operations for the period 2013-2015. The Bahamas takes this opportunity to reiterate its long-standing position that per capita gross national income, for the reasons given, should not be accorded overriding weight in determining capacity to pay. A representative, transparent, responsive, accountable, democratic and inclusive Security Council, predicated on an increased membership in both the permanent and non-permanent categories, as well as on modification of its working methods, is overdue. My delegation sincerely hopes that the next round of negotiations on Security Council reform during this session will result in tangible progress aimed at making the Council all that it can and should be. Our desire for the realization of unfulfilled potential also extends to our regional partner, the Republic of Haiti. The Bahamas has been unremitting and consistent in its support for the people of Haiti and their aspirations for peace, security and development. The Bahamas commends the important role of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti in providing security in Haiti and in laying the foundation for its long-term recovery and stability. Pledges made toward Haiti’s recovery and reconstruction must be honoured and fulfilled so that the required work can be undertaken and completed. The Bahamas welcomes increased dialogue on improving international cooperation with respect to international migration and development. Illegal migration from Haiti is a vexing issue for our country. We agree that proper cooperation can certainly help to ensure that migration occurs through safe and regulated channels and to leverage the contributions that migrants can make to the development of our country. The Bahamas will continue to participate constructively in the process leading to the second High-level Dialogue on International Migration and Development, to be held by the General Assembly in 2013, with a view to addressing those and other related issues so crucial to our development. Given the events over the past year in the Bahamas with regard to illegal migration, some of which have been tragic, as well as poaching in our seas by illegal persons from south of the country, the Bahamas will be taking stronger measures over the next year to put a stop to those illegal activities. We appeal to all nations in the region to prevail upon their citizens to cease and desist from those unlawful activities. We intend to work both bilaterally and with the broader international community to stop these assaults on our national and economic security. The Bahamas has made significant strides in the areas of maternal and child health and HIV/AIDS in this, the fiftieth year since women obtained the right to vote in the Bahamas. We are committed to the achievement of gender equality and the empowerment of women, as was affirmed by the Minister for Social Services during the consideration of the report on Bahamas by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women at its fifty-second session, held in July. The Bahamas, nevertheless, remains concerned about the increasing incidences of non-communicable diseases among the population, in particular women, who are disproportionately affected by such preventable diseases. We can draw much strength, wisdom and inspiration from the remarkable successes of our nations’ athletes nationally and subregionally at this year’s Olympics. On behalf of my delegation, I would like to pay tribute to the youth of the world for their stellar displays of camaraderie and talent at the recent Olympics. In this forum, I wish to salute in particular the gold medal athletes of the Bahamas, namely, Demetrius Pinder, Michael Mathieu, Chris Brown and Ramon Miller. Indeed, the performances of the athletes from the entire Caribbean Community region are noteworthy, particularly those of our sister countries Grenada, Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago. Those examples can be seen as contributing as much to peace and development in our world as our deliberations and initiatives at this session, hence, our warmest congratulations to them all. My delegation also wishes to record in this forum the passing of my late friend and brother, the late Paul L. Adderley, who was the longest-serving Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Bahamas. His tenure included the most critical foreign policy challenges of an independent Bahamas to date. Sadly, he died on 19 September. He believed in this world body and its tenets and exemplified how it can assist small States. It is therefore only fitting that we mark and record his passing. The Bahamas continues to believe that mankind can aspire to and achieve a higher inner strength that not can only cause us to excel even beyond our dreams, but also can lift all around us, even nations and the entire world. May each one of us therefore reach for that inner strength, change our world and transform an agenda of problems into covenants of partnerships. It remains as true as always that we need the United Nations.﻿I extend my warmest congratulations to Mr. Jeremić on his election to preside over the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. The demanding agenda of this Assembly makes that no easy task, but I assure him of Malta’s support and friendship. Over a year ago, the protagonists of the Arab Spring proclaimed that their time had come. They shed their blood for freedom, calling for an end to the status quo of oppression and injustice. Unfortunately, extremists persist in their efforts to derail that call. United States Ambassador Christopher Stevens was, sadly, one of their victims. One cannot stress strongly enough the importance of protecting the inviolability of diplomatic premises and personnel, and reiterate our collective condemnation of the deplorable acts perpetrated recently in various capitals of our neighbourhood. Many doubted the success of the Arab Spring; many feared its call for change. Yet change did come. We are now witnessing the first seeds of democracy blossoming in places where that would previously have been unthinkable. And more change is yet to come. People around the world are calling for it. Theirs is a call that pits us against conventional thinking, pushing us out of our comfort zone and into the unfamiliar — a call for humankind to go beyond the borders of human difference and indifference. We have the choice to heed that call or to ignore it, but make no mistake — we do have a choice. Malta knows all too well what the call for change is about. It experiences it first hand as it receives those f leeing war, hunger and persecution, arriving on its shores after a perilous journey in search of a better life. Malta recognizes that we need to give those people safe refuge, and we do so with a sense of solidarity and a strong belief that every human life is worth saving. We are committed to giving assistance, and we remain steadfast in our belief that Malta will continue its historical role of welcoming those who are bereft of human rights and dignity. It is in that spirit that Malta calls upon the international community to give those people genuine alternatives, and to no longer accept that it is a problem in someone else’s backyard. We want to ensure that the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals does not become a simple check-marking exercise, but instead underscores a truly global effort that will lift millions out of situations of deprivation, disease and discrimination. Those goals must be sustained long after the media has gone and the speeches are over, and we urge the Assembly to spare no effort in seeing that it is done. The choice of freedom has seen Malta’s neighbour to the south hold its first free and fully democratic elections in 60 years. We salute Libya on its recent successes. For many, the act of voting was a success in itself. The Libyan people voted for their policy-makers. They did not vote for ideology, but for visionaries who will breathe life into their aspirations. It is a time of celebration for our neighbours, and Malta joins others in recognizing their achievements, as well as the achievements of the other countries of the Arab Spring. Yet as we bear witness to the wave of democratic reform drifting across the southern Mediterranean shores, we must also recall that others are still struggling for freedom. The situation in Syria cannot but trouble us. Oppression and violence are never the solution. They only stif le the inevitable for a short while, for the human spirit can never be defeated. And it is our duty, as the international community, to respond. It is not a question of resolutions and syntax. It is our moral obligation to ensure that the people of Syria are not abandoned to a tragic fate. The time to sit on the fence and live with prejudices and division is over. Malta firmly believes that now can be the right time for a new era — not just for the southern littoral shores of the Mediterranean Sea, but for the whole basin. The Mediterranean region has known too many wars, too many divisions and far too many prejudices. As the heart of the Mediterranean, Malta understands well the nuances of the basin, and it is this understanding that pushes us to reaffirm our commitment to the promotion of prosperity and peace across the whole Mediterranean region and beyond. Malta’s initiative to convene a European Union-League of Arab States ministerial meeting in Malta in 2008 was specifically aimed at attaining that. We salute the decision for the “Malta II” meeting to take place in Cairo next November. Our efforts did not stop there. In a few days’ time, Malta will host the 5+5 Heads of State and Government Meeting of the Western Mediterranean Forum. That grouping should offer an excellent opportunity to discuss such issues. The summit meeting coincides with the dramatic changes taking place in the political landscape in North Africa. The expectation for the implementation of concrete action in the Euro- Mediterranean region, transcending ineffective declarations, statements and conclusions, is important. I hope that the Malta Summit will meet the aspirations of the peoples of the northern and southern basin of the Mediterranean. We cannot fail in that regard. We owe it to our peoples. However, if we want to truly embrace the changes that are taking place around us, we must take them further. The call to rise above stalemate and stagnation is nowhere more evident than in the Middle East peace process, where the fear of change is holding all those involved back. The parties concerned must face some uncomfortable truths in order to overcome the stumbling blocks. Bickering over who does what when is not the way forward. Forging common ground does not equate with giving in. Malta believes that the international community must redouble its efforts in that process and that there can be no rest until the world welcomes a truly stable and secure Middle East. We owe it to the Palestinians and the Israelis. We owe it to the wider Mediterranean region, which has now been deadlocked for far too long in the grips of that struggle. There really is no other option than that, for the alternative is further entrenchment of the positions held and more extremism and instability. Malta reaffirms its commitment to the efforts of the United Nations and the European Union, in particular towards the attainment of the goal of two viable States living side by side in harmony. However, that solution is possible only if it is feasible on the ground. That means no unilateral action, which would make it an unattainable reality. A year from now, we should no longer be talking of a Middle East peace process but of a Middle East in peace, and that is that. The sceptics among us will note that that is what was said last year and, of course, even the year before. For over 60 years, we have been making that call but we must not let the opportunity slip away once again. The Arab Spring shows us that we need to answer the call of history now. It can be different this time. The events happening around us highlight not only our sense of duty to promote and protect human rights worldwide but also our sense of responsibility, for the actions that we take or fail to take today will have a bearing on future generations. Malta drew the attention to that belief with its call for a universal declaration on human responsibilities, made in this very Hall during the sixty-fourth session of the Assembly in 2009. We know that we are not alone in the endeavour. We share with other Member States a commitment to solidarity, cohesive ideas and a harmonious discourse in favour of the sustainability of the planet and the stewardship of its peoples. That conviction encourages us to push forward with our efforts for we are certain that history will be on our side. In conclusion, our destiny is what we perceive our future to be. We are convinced that the United Nations stands for the betterment of humanity. We remain committed to living up to the expectations and aspirations to which we adhere under its Charter. Most of all, we need to embrace change. The future begins with the choices that we make today.﻿First of all, on behalf of the Government of Sao Tome and Principe, and in my own name, I would like to congratulate Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I am convinced that his experience as Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia will be a most positive contribution to strengthening the affirmation of the principles of the United Nations Charter for world security and peace, and I trust that he will lead the work of this session with clarity and balance. The Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe also wishes to express its great appreciation for the work of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and for his role in expanding our Organization and encouraging it to continue its efforts to achieve the objectives of world peace and security. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for his highly positive contribution during the sixty-sixth session. As it did during the debates of the sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly, the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe reiterates its hope that the United Nations will play a key role in mediating international conflicts. Unfortunately, today we continue to look on with concern as conflicts that could jeopardize international peace and security persist and further exacerbate the deep economic and financial crisis that is devastating the world. Sadly, our Organization continues to suffer from roadblocks that prevent urgent decisions from being taken and that undermine this forum’s credibility. That inaction translates into impunity for leaders who martyrize their own peoples, paving the way for more international disorder, despair and the sentiment of injustice that is experienced when peoples receive unequal treatment. We need no further evidence of the urgency for in-depth reforms of our Organization, primarily the Security Council, than our inability to put an end to the horrific images of children, symbols of purity and innocence, who are killed daily in Syria, to prevent the destruction of the world’s historic and cultural heritage, as by gangs of destructive criminals in Mali and in Afghanistan, and to forestall coups d’état or obvious attempts to destabilize States and democratically elected Governments that in fact solve nothing and irreparably delay the lengthy process of building democracy and fighting poverty. We must prevent the disintegration of territories and remedy the abnormal and degrading situations of peoples who have already suffered from the poverty and exclusion created by a lack of democratic leadership or of effective and democratic rule of law. In the specific case of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, with which Sao Tome and Principe maintains deeply rooted historic, cultural and linguistic links, the international community should bring both firmness and persistence to bear in finding a credible, inclusive and lasting solution that will ensure that coups d’état do not recur in that country. To do so necessarily requires a reform of the armed forces as well as a strong warning to the political class as a whole to make a steadfast commitment to respect political dialogue and democratic legality. On our side, we will continue to make efforts, in cooperation with the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries and other engaged regional and international organizations, to guarantee a better future for the people of Guinea-Bissau. Regarding the occupation of the north of the Republic of Mali by groups of terrorists and the persistent conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sao Tome and Príncipe acknowledges and applauds the efforts the international community has made through the United Nations and the African Union to establish peace, security and stability. However, it seems that it is becoming increasingly essential for us to ask the States that share borders with those two African countries to establish more effective, intelligent and effective ways to cooperate, based on trust and on a matrix of mutually beneficial and realistic economic interests. It is common knowledge that the forces of destabilization, despair and terror are fuelled and furthered by differences and distrust between States, which in turn paralyses the international decision-making process. However, we must point out positive signs in the trends of a few conflicts on the African continent, such as the cases of the Republics of the Sudan, South Sudan and Somalia. Consequently, we cannot fail to applaud the recent agreement signed by the Republic of the Sudan and South Sudan. Through that framework, the two countries will be able to live in peace and harmony. We also welcome the positive role of the African Union Mission in Somalia, which paves the way to returning the political, economic and social situation of that country and the region to normalcy. Moreover, in our opinion, the important recommendations of the Secretary-General’s report on the situation concerning the Western Sahara (S/2012/197) are a positive asset for a permanent resolution. The social movements that took place in North Africa in 2011, which had the merit of reinstating the right to freedom and democracy for the different peoples, were popular movements that in many cases were mobilized through social networking and modern instruments of technical communication. Various situations of insecurity and reprehensible acts, as well as the acts recently committed in Benghazi of which American diplomats were the victims, raise the issue of how we may live in this new context of the circulation and dissemination of images and information at the global level, in a world that we want to be free, open and tolerant, but in which large segments of the world population still live in a state of extreme poverty, with no access to education and with the growing conviction that they face exclusion and discrimination. How do we deal with the offences committed by people, including even some persons with public political responsibilities such as State leaders, who fail to recognize the right of other peoples and States to exist? In that regard, we would like to take the opportunity that this platform affords us to express to the mourning families of diplomats, journalists, members of non-governmental organization and peacekeepers our sincere and deep condolences as well as our unfailing solidarity. Our ongoing obligation to work to build a better world and to invest in education and the promotion of human and democratic values is fundamental, beginning with Member States complying with all United Nations resolutions. The massacres in Syria must cease, the integrity and security of the State of Israel must be effectively guaranteed, the Palestinian people must have their own State, the embargo against Cuba must end, countries, including Iran, must have the right to civil nuclear technology and must scrupulously observe the commitments that that entails, and polluters must be the principal payers. It must be our ambition, and not a mere hope, to ensure that we return here next year with an agenda that includes fewer of these troublesome issues, many of which are recurring. We are pleased to note a few positive signs in the dialogue between the Republic of China on Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China on the one hand, and, on the other, the willingness of the United States Congress and the European Parliament to admit Taiwan as a member of international organizations. Sao Tome and Principe supports initiatives such as these, which will make it possible for the people of Taiwan to make a significant contribution to international issues without ignoring the necessity for the two parties in the Straits of Formosa to work peacefully to agree to frame and normalize their relations. The High-level Meeting that preceded the general debate was an excellent opportunity for Member States to share information on how democratic reforms are being implemented and the rule of law strengthened both in individual countries and at the international level. It is very pleasing that this discussion is leading to significant progress in implementing the democratic and institutional reforms that can help to strengthen the rule of law, internally and internationally. In that regard, Sao Tome and Principe congratulates the Republic of Angola on its recent successful and transparent general elections, since they also constitute another step towards strengthening the democratic process in its sister country of Sao Tome and Principe. Threats to our global security, particularly transnational crimes such as piracy and the trafficking and sale of arms and drugs, are a matter of great concern for Sao Tome and Principe, a country with a long coastline located in the Gulf of Guinea. Such events are threats that we cannot ignore; they demand that we cooperate as closely as possible both with the States we share the coastline with and the other partners and organizations that have experience in dealing with such issues, and adopt mechanisms — which we resolve to strengthen — for preventing, managing and resolving conflicts caused by organized crime in order to improve our collective security. In that context, we applaud the important resolutions 2018 (2011) and 2039 (2012) adopted by the Security Council on maritime safety and security in the Gulf of Guinea. As part of the Gulf of Guinea region, we repeat our firm pledge to do everything we can, jointly with our partners, to prevent that region, rich as it is in raw materials of strategic importance to industrialized economies, from becoming a stage for maritime piracy and other scourges that hinder economic trade, peace and security in the region. To that end, we reiterate that we are absolutely ready and willing to help implement initiatives to hold an international summit on maritime piracy in the Gulf of Guinea. The substantial transformations that have occurred in the international political arena as a result of the grave global financial crisis have forced the citizens of small States, and of Sao Tome and Principe in particular, to make major sacrifices. In that regard, Sao Tome and Principe believes that the continuing international and economic financial crisis and its effects on the economies of small countries, which have included reductions and slowdowns in official international aid, tend to threaten social cohesion as well as previous improvements in fiscal discipline, the business climate and political stability itself. The acceptability of controlling and reducing public deficits in developing countries such as ours is reaching its limits where our citizens are concerned, and good governance now demands measures that can effectively jump-start our economies through productive investments. We believe that the most vulnerable populations, in both the northern and southern hemispheres of our planet, are demanding changes in the practices and rules of the international financial system, and new world financial governance that is better able to hold accountable the financial stakeholders and speculators who undermine the efforts of Governments and their peoples to develop economies that bring progress. Internally, the Government of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe is making efforts to reduce poverty and increase transparency in public management and economic growth. Institutional reforms in the areas of public finance, justice and national defence, whose purpose is to strengthen the capacities of our democratic institutions and develop the country, have been progressing at a good pace. Regarding the Millennium Development Goals, for which the United Nations has set a deadline of 2015, the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe can report significant progress, particularly in the areas of education, with a literacy rate of 92 per cent of the population, and health, especially in the fight against malaria. However, we realize that meeting the deadline will require further effort. To achieve those goals, our country hopes to continue to receive support in many forms from the international community. In that regard, I would like to take this opportunity to extend the sincere thanks of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe to the entire international community, and in particular UNESCO and all of its member States, for designating the island of Principe a UNESCO World Biosphere Reserve, thus recognizing and providing further incentives for our efforts to defend and preserve the environment. I would like to conclude by repeating that the Government of Sao Tome and Principe, which I have the honour of representing, stands ready and willing to take part in efforts to mobilize the will and synergy needed to achieve the honourable goals that guided the creation of the United Nations.﻿Allow me, at the outset, to join fellow Member States in congratulating the President of the General Assembly on his election to preside over the Assembly at its sixtyseventh session and to commend his predecessor for his successful stewardship of the most recent session. I would like to seize this momentous occasion to express our deepest gratitude and appreciation to the Secretary-General for the passion and compassion he has shown in responding to the various global challenges facing the Organization and, most important, his unwavering personal support for our referendum on self-determination, our independence and the speedy admission of the Republic of South Sudan into the United Nations. Furthermore, we are also deeply grateful to the Assembly for the warmth, generosity and hospitality accorded to our President when he addressed the Assembly last year. He made that address at the time when the international community was concerned about the viability of our new nation. In the light of the progress we have made and despite recent events, I am pleased to address the Assembly this year under the theme of the sixty-seventh session “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. The Republic of South Sudan achieved its independence peacefully, through the exercise of the right of self-determination by the people of South Sudan in an internationally supervised referendum, as stipulated in the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA). The international community played an important role in this, our independence process. We are therefore very thankful to all those who helped us achieve independence, not least the United Nations. Our declaration of independence on 9 July 2011 did not resolve all the issues between us and the predecessor State, the Republic of the Sudan. These unresolved, post-independence issues include border demarcation, oil infrastructure, security and the final status of the Abyei Area. The bilateral engagement between the two countries failed to achieve an agreement. As a result, the African Union intervened by mandating the African Union High-level Implementation Panel, under former President Thabo Mbeki, to facilitate negotiations between the two parties. As the situation continued to deteriorate, the Security Council intervened and adopted resolution 2046 (2012). That resolution sets out a clear road map for resolving all the remaining differences between the Sudan and South Sudan, including Abyei, and addresses the conflicts in Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile. Before I discuss the developments in the talks in Addis Ababa, allow me to also brief the Assembly on other issues of importance such as State-building, food security, public service reform, access to education, security and accountability in my country. We have embarked upon laying a secure foundation for a prosperous, democratic and stable nation by establishing institutions at the national, state and local Government levels for governance and the delivery of services to the people. We believe that food security is not a privilege but a basic right of each and every citizen in South Sudan. No citizen should go hungry. As the saying goes, a hungry man is an angry man. It will not be good for the stability of the country if we have many hungry and angry men. In our endeavour to achieve food security, we are diversifying the economy by utilizing oil revenues to fuel agriculture and build the necessary basic infrastructure. This is the only way we can benefit from the vast fertile agricultural lands that our country is generously endowed with. Our public service is functioning satisfactorily, especially after the introduction of far-reaching public service reforms. That has brought about efficiency and transparency in service delivery. We have introduced constructive and effective reforms in our public financial management and have strengthened measures to improve transparency and accountability. As for education, we have increased access to education for all children in South Sudan. Since the signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, in 2005, enrolment in our primary schools has more than doubled. In the past year, we continued to strengthen and expand the education sector by further introducing alternative education. This innovative notion of an alternative education system is currently offering accelerated learning programmes to more than 200,000 youth and adults. Favourable conditions and terms of service for teachers have been introduced throughout the country, and the Government is working tirelessly to meet the rapidly increasing demand for secondary education caused by the increase in primary school enrolment. However, the Government still has a long way to go in providing educational opportunities for our children and youth that prepare them for the future and meet their expectations and aspirations. At this juncture, allow me to commend the launch by the Secretary-General of the Global Initiative on Education, which we hope will open up avenues of collaboration between South Sudan and the international community on improving education access for our children. Our nascent nation has been tested enormously in its first year of independence. We have been tested by conflicts within and beyond our borders; we have been tested by severe economic hardship; and we have been tested by the revelation of severe abuse of the public trust and funds resulting partly from malpractice and lack of capacity. The Government is undertaking serious corrective measures and institutional capacitybuilding to address that issue in order to restore public confidence. My Government is striving harder than ever to combat corruption in our public service. Along with reformed systems for management of public funds and tighter controls, we are combating corruption through the rule of law and through greater transparency and accountability. The Government has enacted legislation that holds public officials accountable and brings the management of our resources closer to international standards. The Government has published the entire annual budget and opened our books to public scrutiny. By the end of the year, we aim to be up to date on all of the audits of our national accounts since the signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, in 2005. As an accountable Government before our people, we still believe that there is a long way ahead to achieve the efficiency, transparency and accountability in our public service and financial management. Despite the economic peril since the shut-down of oil production, we are, nevertheless, encouraged that the current period of austerity has strengthened our resolve to press ahead in our reform agenda and has allowed us to lay a strong foundation for more efficient and accountable governance beyond the austerity period — tough times never last, but tough people do. With regard to security, the Republic of South Sudan is currently facing security threats in the form of armed militia groups that are creating insecurity and undermining our young democracy. The Government has accorded the highest priority to reaching a peaceful resolution to these internal conflicts. Four of the armed militia groups have laid down their weapons and have integrated voluntarily into our national army and civilian life. We believe that the internal and external security of our nation is a prerequisite for having meaningful economic development and social progress. While we are working tirelessly towards achieving and maintaining peace within our borders, critical unresolved issues remain between South Sudan and the Sudan, including border demarcation, citizenship rights, the status of Abyei and oil-related issues. The lack of progress on those post-independence issues has been posing a threat to peace and stable relations between the two countries. Our relations with the Sudan reached a critical juncture last year, when Khartoum blocked tankers loaded with our crude oil and prevented them from departing from Port Sudan. In addition, Sudan seized and resold crude oil that we had sold to international customers. By January, we had lost some $800 million in revenues. At that point, my Government was left with no choice but to shut down oil production. The decision was publicly supported by the majority of our people. In the context of relations of South Sudan and the Sudan, it is incumbent upon my Government to shed some light of what became known as the Heglig or Panthou incident between us and the Republic of the Sudan. That crisis was the result of increasing border tensions and repeated bombings in the border areas of my country by the Sudanese Armed Forces. In April, our forces clashed with the Sudanese army in an area inside South Sudan, several kilometers south of Heglig. That resulted in our armed forces taking over Heglig temporarily; we acted in self-defence to prevent Heglig from being used as a launching pad for military attacks by the Sudanese Armed Forces on our country. In compliance with advice from the international community, we withdraw our forces soon thereafter. Although Heglig is historically part of South Sudan, it was not our intention to take it by force. We believe that we can settle the matter through peaceful negotiations. Another area in which we believe we have not been well understood by the international community is our alleged support for the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement – North (SPLM-North). What may not be fully appreciated by outside observers is that those forces were integral members of the SPLM. But although they fought side by side with us, they were not fighting for the independence of southern Sudan, but for their own cause through alliance with us. Of course, we shared a common vision of creating a new, fundamentally restructured united Sudan of inclusivity, equity and dignity for all, without discrimination on the basis of race, ethnicity, religion or culture. But we also had issues that were specific to our particular situation and which, for us, eventually led to our independence. It should be recalled that the CPA included a special protocol on Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile states that addressed their special grievances. That protocol is yet to be credibly implemented. As the SPLM-North were former allies who contributed significantly to our success in achieving the objectives of our struggle, we obviously have a moral and, indeed, political obligation to assist them in addressing their legitimate grievances, as stipulated and agreed in the CPA. In that connection, South Sudan is currently carrying the burden of accommodating an increasing number of refugees from the two areas. We therefore call upon the international community to assist in meeting the humanitarian needs of the refugees within South Sudan, as well as throughout the Sudanese territory for those internally displaced by the conflict. Our President stated in his statement at our independence celebration: “We cannot abandon them, but would support their cause peacefully through negotiated settlement between them and the Government of the Sudan”. South Sudan will use its good offices as a former ally of the SPLM-North to assist the Sudan by acting as an honest broker in mediating a peaceful, but just, resolution of the conflict. We believe that our role as honest brokers will in the long term assist our neighbour to the north, the Government of the Sudan, to achieve peace and stability. We are glad that the United Nations recognizes that there can be no military solution to the conflict and that a negotiated settlement is the way forward. I am pleased to inform the Assembly that, today, President Salva Kiir Mayardit and President Omer Hassan A. Al-Bashir signed an agreement that will allow the two countries to pursue their national development efforts under a secure and lasting peace. We are hopeful that the new agreement with the Sudan will lead to the resolution of our differences on security, borders and the use of petroleum infrastructure. It is envisaged that if each side upholds its part of this agreement, the most significant causes of dispute between our two countries will have been amicably resolved. Diplomacy will have won, and reason will have prevailed. With the resolution of those key matters, preparations to resume oil production in South Sudan will now begin. The following agreements were signed today between our two countries: first, the Agreement Concerning Oil and Related Economic Matters; second, the Framework Agreement on the Status of Nationals of the Other State; third, the Agreement on the Demarcation of the Boundary; fourth, an agreement on border issues; fifth, the Agreement on a Framework for Cooperation on Central Banking Issues; sixth, the Agreement on Trade and Trade-related Issues; seventh, the Agreement on Certain Economic Matters: Division of Assets and Liabilities, Arrears and Claims and Joint Approach to the International Community; and, finally, eighth, the Framework Agreement to Facilitate Payment of Post-Service Benefits. While we are happy with all that has been agreed today by our two countries, I wish to inform the General Assembly that we have failed to reach agreement on Abyei. President Al-Bashir has rejected the proposal of the African Union High-level Implementation Panel, as stipulated under Security Council resolution 2046 (2012). It is now incumbent upon the African Union (AU) Peace and Security Council, together with the United Nations Security Council, to take the action necessary to move forward. We are thankful to both the AU Peace and Security Council and the United Nations Security Council for their great efforts to bring about this agreement between our two countries. As our President stated in this forum one year ago, “The ambition of the people of South Sudan is to be able to transform their country into a regional agro-industrial powerhouse” (see A/66/PV.19), with reduced dependence on external assistance, and the potential to feed the people of South Sudan and to be a breadbasket for East Africa. Our strategy is aimed at utilizing oil wealth as a catalyst to stimulate our economic development potential, with an emphasis on agriculture. We are conscious of the fact that we cannot achieve those goals alone. We need continued support from friends, partners and the international community. We are confident that together we shall overcome the challenges ahead. I take this opportunity once more, on behalf of the people and the Government of South Sudan, to express our profound gratitude for the support rendered to us by the United Nations, the AU, regional organizations, friends and partners. Finally, allow me to reiterate the resolve and the commitment of the people and the Government of the Republic of South Sudan to be a productive and active member of this global family of nations, and to make their contribution to promoting world peace and prosperity for all humankind.﻿It is my great honour and pleasure to participate in the general debate of the Assembly on behalf of the people and Government of Tuvalu. As Tuvalu will commemorate the thirty- fourth anniversary of its independence on Monday next week, 1 October, let me take this opportunity to acknowledge with profound appreciation the continued assistance and support given us by the United Nations, the international community and in particular our traditional development partners in our pursuit of our development goals. The overarching theme, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, together with a myriad of core issues that have been chosen for the Assembly’s sixty-seventh session, is fully supported by Tuvalu. In view of circumstances facing the world today, there is certainly an urgent and critical need for the United Nations and for each Member State in particular to address those issues, individually or collectively. As a small and peace-loving nation, Tuvalu welcomes and fully supports the important services provided by the United Nations and other organizations in the maintenance of peace and security around the world, especially in conflict regions. We firmly believe that the use of force through military or violent action as a means for settling disputes and conflicts should be avoided at all costs. It is also important that countries involved in such disputes should be encouraged and supported in discussing the root causes of their differences among themselves in a non-confrontational manner. We concur fully with the President’s vision that we cannot be defeated by terrorists, extremists and the sponsors and supporters who back them. The world we want to give our future generations is not one of terrorism and fanaticism, or of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, maritime piracy, organized crime, drugs and narcotic smuggling, child labour and trafficking, slavery and religious intolerance. In the United Nations, we strive for international peace and security; that is the world we want to give to all future generations. Faced with globalized agendas, the United Nations must cooperate and seek engagement with other organizations and their memberships for partnerships in development activities. The United Nations should also seek to ensure participatory planning in the design of any engagement so that we co-opt and work together with the existing diverse fabric of our societies, whose issues we are trying to address and assist with. The United Nations should also align its programmes and activities with those of the host country’s needs and action frameworks, heeding the distinctiveness of our membership. When Tuvalu became the 189th Member of the United Nations in September 2000, we were conscious of the complexity and breadth of the United Nations agenda in comparison with our relatively modest capacity. Yet there was one issue that we were confidently determined to bring to the fore. Does the United Nations hear the plea of small island developing States (SIDS) for fair treatment by the international community? Today, 12 years later, we consider this lasting concern almost totally unanswered. That may sound surprising to some representatives, as we all tend to be under the impression that much work, time and energy has been spent over the past two decades for the benefit of SIDS. Without going into detail on the state of the SIDS agenda, I would like to make three observations on the subject and outline Tuvalu’s intentions in the same vein. First, as much as we appreciate the work of various United Nations departments and programmes on SIDS, we observe that this work has been almost entirely focused on stating and indefinitely reiterating the challenges and problems SIDS are facing. We have seen nearly 20 General Assembly resolutions on SIDS adopted since the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, held in Barbados, and numerous reports of the Secretary- General on the subject. Two United Nations conferences on SIDS have been organized, and now new momentum is gathering towards a third conference in 2014. Secondly, there is no part of the SIDS work in the United Nations that has ever generated international support measures specially reserved for SIDS. In other words, in 20 years the United Nations has not been able to hear and answer the pleas our island States have been making for special treatment. SIDS status and SIDS- specific treatment are truly what our small island States are in need of, just as the least developed countries (LDCs) need the special treatment extended to them by the international community. Thirdly, we would like to reply to those, within and outside the United Nations, who have been arguing that the case for special treatment of SIDS is not and should not be on the United Nations agenda, because special treatment of SIDS would imply the existence of a SIDS category, and apparently, we are told, SIDS cannot be considered and dealt with as a special category. Therefore, SIDS are only an abstract notion deliberately kept undefined, because any clarity or debate on what they are and what precisely could be done for them would be too challenging or disturbing. That seemingly accepted sense of SIDS work in the United Nations does not match Tuvalu’s vision of what the United Nations ought to be doing in support of those countries. We believe that the time has come for us to spell it out; the third decade of United Nations work on SIDS should not be another round of lip service. That will require a number of needed special international measures for SIDS to be identified and, naturally also, that some order be put in the definition of SIDS, as a necessary condition for making SIDS a genuine, internationally accepted special category of countries. Tuvalu greatly appreciates the decision taken by the Economic and Social Council to note the recommendation of the Committee for Development Policy to graduate Tuvalu from the least developed country category and to consider that issue at its next substantive session in 2013. That will allow the Council the opportunity for full consideration of the particular challenges Tuvalu faces. In that regard, despite the fact that Tuvalu has met two of the three criteria for graduation from LDC status, there is an urgent need for the United Nations to revisit such criteria in order to reflect and capture the real situation of the economies of the countries eligible for graduation. We believe that treating the case of Tuvalu the same way one deals with other countries is a denial of what decades of United Nations advocacy have set in place. It would be something akin to the principle of equal treatment, namely, the principle of special treatment, which is precisely the foundation of the very existence of LDC status. If the geographical limitations and extreme vulnerabilities of Tuvalu do not justify special consideration, what is the purpose of special and differentiated treatment, the cornerstone of international cooperation? Obviously, countries are acutely uneven and unequal, and treating them on the basis of a one-size-fits-all paradigm would simply be wrong. Tuvalu looks forward to the continued understanding and support of members of the Economic and Social Council on the question of its graduation from the LDC category. Tuvalu also accords the highest priority to the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Tuvalu has passionately pursued those Goals, and we sincerely thank the donor community for its invaluable support, be it in-kind or financial. As we progress to the end of the MDGs in 2015, we continue to seek such partnerships so as to ensure that the MDGs are achieved fully and effectively as we anticipate the transition to the sustainable development goals. We are also fully committed to the strategic implementation of the essential dictates of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, the Mauritius Strategy for its further implementation, and the Istanbul Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2011-2020, and seek the cooperation of development partners to provide, in a timely and predictable manner, financial and technical support to ensure their successful implementation. We have repeatedly called on developed and emerging countries and their partners to take a leadership role in reducing their greenhouse-gas emissions and to help small and poor countries like Tuvalu in their mitigation and adaptation activities. Tuvalu’s security and nationhood are continuously being threatened by the adverse impact of climate change, especially by sea-level rise. Much has been said and documented on the root causes of climate change and its negative consequences for many countries, not just the most vulnerable small island States like Tuvalu. Yet the ongoing global pleas to address such consequences have so far fallen on ignorant, if not deaf, ears. Our smallness and lack of natural endowments, as well as being only four metres above sea level, leave us extremely vulnerable to natural shocks, particularly to the effects of climate change and sea-level rise. As is well known, sea-level rise and f looding threaten Tuvalu’s limited agricultural production, undermine food security, and increase our vulnerability to supply disruptions. We therefore support advances and urge perseverance with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol as the primary international, intergovernmental forum for negotiating the global response to climate change in order to give substance to international agreements. As a sea-locked country, we in the Pacific have offered the resources of our vast oceans to be utilized by developed countries. We ask the partner countries to be more responsible and to reward us as guardians with the appropriate compensations that are conducive to our development needs, as well as environmentally recompensing. Domestically, Tuvalu is pursuing energy efficiencies, development strategies and goals that are both green or blue and sustainable. We have challenged ourselves to be 100 per cent renewable in 2020 in our energy sector. We could miss the mark, but we will not be comforted by remaining inactive, be it in our vision or in our action. We have asked developed countries to reduce carbon emissions; we will do the same at home, regardless of scale contrasts. With the advent of technology, Tuvalu seeks the donors’ assistance in realizing their pledges to establish early-warning systems pertaining to tsunamis or tropical cyclones in order to mitigate any risk and subsequent cost to Tuvalu. Tuvalu wishes also to offer its established trust fund protocols to the United Nations and development partners’ funding mechanisms for climate change adaptation as innovative financing instruments and architecture for channelling such resources to Tuvalu. Our trust funds are governed by international agreements and renowned worldwide as transparent and accountable mechanisms with high international standards of accounting and governance. Many suggestions for enhancing the role of the United Nations have been documented. We also continue to hear from the experts and technical advisers of the development of alternative energy drives and technologies, be they solar, wind or wave. In our region, and I believe in many other remote areas, we ask how we can get those new technologies to be readily available and price-effective to the membership of the United Nations, especially LDCs and SIDS. We therefore urge the United Nations and the Secretariat to act as facilitators of such developments and to expedite technology transfers, where appropriate, to bring our many words and resolutions to fruition. Our collective and global efforts to have peace and security as a prerequisite for the stability needed for global economic growth, sustainable development and social progress will be meaningless if the United Nations continues not to recognize and acknowledge Taiwan’s significant contribution and efforts towards the East China Sea peace initiative for regional stability and peace. Furthermore, Taiwan’s continued contribution to the international community as one of the committed development partners and responsible stakeholders in achieving the Millennium Development Goals should be recognized and accepted by the United Nations system as a valuable contribution to our collective efforts. In that regard, Tuvalu calls upon the United Nations subsidiary bodies, especially the International Civil Aviation Organization and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to recognize and allow Taiwan to participate in and contribute meaningfully to their meetings and activities without reservations. Incidentally, any legitimate claim for new nationhood or independence, be it in the Pacific region or the world over, should be supported, as colonialism in any form is contradictory to the United Nations Charter, just as any form of discrimination by race, gender or belief is not accepted in a civilized, modern and free world. I conclude by asking that the United Nations continue to cooperate in an unprecedented way. The United Nations must work together more enterprisingly and reform our strategies to conform to new developments, contemporary innovations and issues. Holding and hosting meeting after meeting is a good engagement strategy and directs our activities. However, delaying the implementation of resolutions is detrimental, as resolution after resolution is shelved or deferred until they are redundant. The United Nations Charter, I believe, is premised on timely actions and achievements to gauge whether we are effective and sustainable or merely validating our inactivity. I wish the President, the Secretary-General and all our membership every success in the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly.﻿I would like to congratulate the President on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, and to thank him for the inspiring speech he made at the opening of the general debate (see A/67/ PV.6). We are confident that the spirit exemplified in that speech will guide him during his presidency. Let me also take this opportunity to express my appreciation to the outgoing President. The reason I am here on this rostrum, making my maiden speech to the General Assembly as Head of Government of the new Ethiopia, is because we lost our leader only a little more than a month ago. The passing of Prime Minister Meles Zenawi is a huge loss for Ethiopia, and undoubtedly for Africa as well. He was a man of prodigious intellect who was uncompromising in his insistence that Ethiopians and Africans should own and protect their development strategies and their approaches to governance and democratization. The late Ethiopian Prime Minister, and the party he led, have facilitated the emergence of a new Ethiopia, rekindling the hopes of Ethiopians for the future and strengthening their confidence in their ability to overcome adversity. Ethiopians proved their mettle, and what they are made of, when they received the unexpected news of the tragedy with which the nation was faced. It is an honour and a blessing to be the leader of a people who are generous in paying tribute to those, like Prime Minister Meles, who served them self lessly; a people who have the maturity and wisdom to see, and even lucidly articulate, who has done what for the nation and for the people of Ethiopia. That would naturally make any human being who is given the opportunity to lead a country ask himself what more he can do for his people — not in words but in deeds, as our late Prime Minister often emphasized. As might be expected, doomsday scenarios for Ethiopia’s future were bandied about. But the people of Ethiopia — from north to south, from east to west, across the length and breadth of the country — were categorical in stating in unison how much they embrace the unity of the country, unity that celebrates their diversity and is built on the bedrock of their federal Constitution. Let me take this opportunity to thank, on behalf of the Ethiopian people and myself, all those leaders and heads of delegation who came to Addis Ababa to be with us at our time of grief. We cherish your friendship. I wish to reiterate my condolences to the peoples and Governments of Ghana, Malawi and Guinea-Bissau, who have also lost their leaders recently. We Ethiopians are confident that we have come a long way. Never before in its modern history has Ethiopia had the kind of rapid economic growth that it has witnessed over the last decade or so. Indeed, for the first time in its modern history, Ethiopia has begun to see a bright light at the end of the tunnel in terms of real prospects for economic transformation. We are, for sure, on a hugely promising trajectory. Our Growth and Transformation Plan, to which our late Prime Minister was devoted, and which is now embraced by our people, is designed to catapult our nation to a destination thathas long eluded it but is now within reach. We go forward with full recognition of our responsibility, as the second most populous country in Africa, to contribute to regional integration. We foresee huge possibilities for bringing the countries of the greater Horn of Africa together. We have already gone some distance in playing a catalytic role in laying the infrastructural basis for consolidating economic ties with the countries of our region. The electric power interconnections and the road and railway networks that we have built and are in the process of building with Djibouti, the Sudan, Kenya and South Sudan are emblematic of our resolve to play our part in regional integration. We are confident that Somalia and others, without exception, will follow suit. But our success hinges on a number of conditions being met, none of which is amenable to our unilateral initiative. First is the question of peace and stability and the challenge of extremism. Here, also, we have made much progress. Somalia is gradually coming out of the woods. We salute all those, most particularly the contributors of troops to the African Union Mission in Somalia, for the sacrifice they have made. The African Union (AU) has made an enormous contribution to laying the basis for the progress that Somalia has made. We also acknowledge the very useful cooperation between the AU and the United Nations, including their two Councils responsible for security. We have to recognize the role of partners as well. But much more needs to be done in Somalia to ensure that the new Government stands on its own feet. We would be naive, however, if we believed that the enemies of peace of Somalia and the region are completely defeated. That is why it is so critical that the momentum is not lost in Somalia and Somalia’s ownership of the process of national reconciliation is strengthened. We will continue to assist Somalia and the new President of the country, Mr. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud, and the people of Somalia can count on that. We are pleased that there is also major progress in the peace process between the Sudan and South Sudan. We are confident that the two parties will maintain the momentum towards durable peace, which is the basis for ensuring the viability of both. We are indeed indebted to former President Thabo Mbeki and the African Union High-level Implementation Panel for their perseverance and commitment to peace between the two sisterly countries. What has been achieved by the two parties over the last few days, which culminated in the signing of the much anticipated agreements on vital matters, is a significant breakthrough, which needs to be consolidated and used as a basis for resolving the issues still remaining. We are confident that the two parties appreciate how vital their joint effort for a win-win outcome is, not only for their peoples, but also for us all. Peace between the Sudan and South Sudan and a close partnership between the two, above and beyond the benefit it has for us all, has for us Ethiopians an additional emotional and sentimental value. That was an issue that our late Prime Minister, even as he was struggling for his life, was following with the same intensity as before, and he continued to offer whatever added value he could bring to bear on the peace process. Let me thank both the Sudan and South Sudan for placing their trust in us, as has been so manifest in the deployment of the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei. Indeed, we are proud of our troops in Abyei, as we are of all our people serving under the United Nations f lag, including those in Darfur. Before I move on to the second challenge we face, I wish to say a few words on broader issues that help put in perspective the challenge our region faces in securing sustainable peace and stability. The major war we have to win is undoubtedly the war on poverty. The most difficult challenge we face here in developing the most effective means to wage that war is that of ensuring that the rule of law is observed, both in inter-State relations and in the domestic sphere. At its most fundamental level, the struggle against extremism is one aspect of the struggle to ensure that the rule of law is respected and the principles of tolerance are adhered to. Wherever an act of intolerance or a violation of laws occurs, sometimes in an egregious manner, as in Benghazi, it needs to be condemned. The second challenge we face in sustaining our development agenda relates to a host of issues impinging on our capacity to ensure sustainable development. Let us be frank and admit that there is a huge deficit in international cooperation for the development of both low-income and least developed countries. At the end of the day, regardless of other impediments to development, the major bottleneck for countries such as Ethiopia for ensuring sustainable development and successfully achieving the Millennium Development Goals is related to shortfalls in development finance. We said as much in the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness and the Accra Agenda for Action, and, recently, in the Busan Partnership for Effective Development Cooperation, but the results have been few and far between. In our view, the current global economic situation should never be allowed to detract attention from the critical need for development finance of low-income countries. The challenge in this area is compounded and made even worse by climate change, which is a global challenge calling for responsible and wise leadership at the international level. The response should rely on full commitment to the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities. However boring it may be, something that is universally acknowledged bears repeating. Countries such as Ethiopia which did not contribute to climate change are nonetheless those most affected by it. But, still, we recognize our obligation. That is why Ethiopia has already opted for a green growth path, and our current five-year Growth and Transformation Plan is based on developing a green economy, the strategy for which has already been issued and is being implemented. We seek effective cooperation in this endeavour. We had hoped that the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development would achieve more than it did. Nevertheless, we look forward to meaningful and effective work by the working group on sustainable development, to which we are ready to contribute as best we can. We are also hopeful that the intergovernmental process under the auspices of the General Assembly in connection with financing for development will not turn into a filibustering exercise without any impact on this issue, which is so critical for the development of low-income countries. As I conclude, I wish to express my agreement with previous speakers that the twenty-first century is indeed an African century. As mentioned by my brother, the President of Ghana, out of the 10 fastest growing economies in the world last year, six were African countries. I should also mention that Ethiopia was among the six. Africa is indeed changing, and changing for the better. There is no greater human rights violation than attempts to put obstacles in the way of the success of the ongoing transformations of Africa, which will have enormous salutary implications for hundreds of millions of Africans. Africa is no longer the marginalized continent of the 1980s or even of the period a little later than that. Ethiopia will continue to play its part to ensure the success of the transformation and the success of multilateralism under the auspices of the United Nations.﻿We warmly congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty- seventh session. We are also pleased that the general debate of this session is devoted to considering, among other issues, the promotion of sustained economic growth and sustainable development in accordance with relevant General Assembly resolutions and recent United Nations conferences. Since we adopted the Declaration that led to the Millenium Development Goals (resolution 55/2), the image of development has been tied to the reduction of poverty and to the development of capacities and opportunities for the most vulnerable populations. The majority of our developing countries had made significant progress in this area until 2008, when the financial crisis, which affected the world economy and threatened to cancel out our achievements, began. We are living at a time of multiple simultaneous crises. The ecological crisis threatens the majority of our f lora and fauna. Global warming threatens coastal populations and small island countries. Unchecked population growth threatens to exceed the capacity of nature to restore itself. We have witnessed a crisis of the values that have traditionally governed the behaviour of humankind. War and armed conflict threaten the right to cultural, ideological and political diversity and our right to live in peace and unity. Those of us who live in the developing countries did not cause the world financial crisis. As you know, the crisis was caused by the failure to use effective regulations in the international financial system and by the arrogance, greed and unbridled desire to amass wealth. In the context of the crisis, age-old debates have resurfaced as to how best to tackle the crisis. Should we reduce investment in social protections for our populations? Or, on the contrary, should we bolster investment, making anti-cyclical social investment policies into a springboard for reviving economies? And how do we measure poverty and development and recognize the social impact of the measures adopted? Do we use average income indicators for reducing social inequality and improving quality of life? The countries in the developing world whose economies have performed better and have shown less vulnerability in the context of the world crisis have been those that have understood, in time, that investing in training our peoples and improving the quality of life of our peoples is the best way to reduce our vulnerability and to maintain economic growth. The economy must serve the people, not the reverse. In the debate on development, we must reaffirm as peoples and as Government leaders that we have learned quite often through painful experience that equality and sustainability are key prerequisites for ensuring sustained and sustainable economic growth. Today, we know that it is not enough to have economic growth in order to reduce social inequity and to improve the quality of life of our peoples. Nor is it right to sacrifice our people in the hope that the growth of an economy will ultimately lead to benefits for all and reduce social inequality. That expectation quite often remains unmet. On the contrary, experience has shown that by improving the quality of life and by reducing poverty and social exclusion, we can help stimulate healthy economic growth. In the context of international crisis and uncertainty, we must reduce national and international social inequalities. We must increase social cohesion and strengthen democratic governance. We also know that economic growth, which does not take account of the limits of natural resources and the needs of future generations, will entail the risk of imminent collapse. We must revise the ideas about development that have prevailed in the international financial system. Equity and sustainability are two sides of the same coin, and that is how we must approach human development. That vision is consistent with international declarations on sustainable development, such as the Declarations issued by the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment in Stockholm in 1972, by the Rio Earth Summit in Rio de Janiero in 1992, and by the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in 2002. They promoted the three pillars of sustainable development: environmental equity, economic equity and social equity. Development means protecting environmental systems, raising the productive capacity of goods and services and reducing social inequality by raising the quality of life of all men and women, multiplying capacities and opportunities. Today, 7 billion people inhabit the Earth. Of those, 43 per cent, or 3 billion, are under the age of 25. We must invest so that our young people have the skills and opportunities to tackle creatively the development tasks that face our societies. For many years, the development of countries has been assessed by international financial institutions, using measures of income or national production expressed per capita in order to determine the state of material well-being. Based on that kind of measure, our country, the Dominican Republic, has been classified in recent years as a medium high income country. Nonetheless, more than a third of our citizens live in poverty. How then is it possible to exclude countries like ours from receiving development aid? By the same token, to give an international comparison, poverty has been measured in terms of income, with those families that subsist on less than $2 a day being defined as poor and those who live on less than $1.25 as extremely poor, an adjustment being made in both cases for buying power. According to those criteria, over 2 billion people worldwide — 33 per cent of humanity — are poor, and in 2005 the number living in extreme poverty had dropped to 1.4 billion. Those same measures project that by 2015 only 883 million will be living in extreme poverty. The optimism of those international figures does not appear to coincide with the perception of many of our citizens, who feel that the increase in gross domestic product does not reflect their needs or despair, nor does it jibe with the unhappiness of our young people who, despite raising their educational level, are still unable to find dignified work or the opportunities to fulfil their business aspirations. That discrepancy between the optimism of certain international indicators and the discontent on our streets can be explained by the fact that we are using inadequate tools to measure poverty, development and well-being. At least in the Dominican Republic, it is hard to believe that the quality of life and the opportunities to improve it would be very different for a person with an income of $2 a day than for someone earning a few cents less. Poverty in a given family or community is much more than the lack of income with respect to a predetermined threshold, just as the development of a country is much more than the size of its median income. The International Labour Organization reported in 2010 that 81 million of the 620 million young people between the ages of 15 and 24 worldwide who were economically active, which represents 13 per cent of that age group, had been unemployed during the preceding year, primarily due to the world economic and financial crisis. Between 2007 and 2009, the global unemployment rate for young people experienced the greatest rise in its history: from 11.9 per cent to 13 per cent. Young women had a harder time than young men in finding work. The results in terms of health, education and maternal and child mortality show the limits of the unilateral and optimistic focus on poverty and development. Not without reason have some academics said that “we are gambling with the fate of our planet with ‘games’ in which a few private players reap the benefits and society pays the consequences. A system that permits results like those is destined to mismanage risk”. Social investment in the education, health and employment of young people can build the foundation for a strong economic base that can halt the transmission of poverty from one generation to the next. Strengthening young people’s skills creates the conditions for them to earn higher income during their productive economic lives. The way we understand and measure poverty translates into national and international policy decisions. To assume that poverty and underdevelopment are simply the expression of family income or national averages has led to limited social policies of entitlement or transfers. Such policies temporarily raise the income of impoverished families above the so-called poverty line, at the expense of developing universal, more effective and better-quality public service systems that would benefit, as a right, those who have traditionally been excluded. Adam Smith, the father of economic liberalism, included in his definition of poverty such social and cultural aspects as “the ability to go about without shame”. More recently, the Nobel Prize winner in Economics Amartya Sen spoke of development itself as freedom. In that sense, broadening our concept of poverty to include measures of social participation and inclusion, as well as unmet basic needs, will allow us to develop more holistic and effective responses. Poverty is a multidimensional phenomenon, a complex system of problems that requires a systemic solution leading to broader skills, freedom and opportunities for those who have traditionally been excluded. Investment in quality universal education and health systems, a universal safety net, access to dignified work and living spaces, personal safety and the security of goods, inter alia, are crucial elements for expanding the skills and opportunities of impoverished portions of the population. Poverty reduction is the basic lever for increasing the production of goods and services and for propelling new dynamics of growth and development. Assessing the development of countries exclusively on the basis of their national per capita income leads to decisions that have a negative impact on our efforts at development. When a country is ranked according to those simple criteria, the contribution of international cooperation is reduced and access to loans from international financial institutions is reduced or becomes more expensive. As developing countries, we also need to shoulder our share of responsibility. Domestically, we need to improve our information systems in order to better understand our social, land and gender inequalities, as well the impact we have on the environment. At the same time, we must redirect our investment patterns and our public policies to promote equality and social inclusion for the most vulnerable groups, and for that we need the support of the international community.. A country should not cease to receive development aid simply because its average national income has crossed a certain arbitrarily defined threshold. Latin America has long experience with the search for multidimensional measures of poverty and development. Since the middle of the last century, the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean has developed a methodology based on an index of unmet basic needs. Many countries have applied such composite multidimensional indexes. In the Dominican Republic we use a quality of life index tailored to our reality. The United Nations Development Programme has applied the human development index, and a number of other indexes have been proposed at the international level. Despite that, the majority of bodies in the international financial system continue to rely on one-dimensional measures that focus on monetary income to assess and categorize the development of our countries and to determine their policies on the basis of criteria for international financial support. We wish to avail ourselves of this opportunity to urge international financial organizations to be more ready and willing to embrace our efforts to break the vicious cycle of poverty and social exclusion as the basis for development. We need to use enhanced indicators with a greater capacity to capture and measure the complex dynamics of human development. What is needed is for us to work together to overcome exclusion, not to prolong poverty and extreme poverty indefinitely. The Dominican Republic reiterates its firm commitment to peace, tolerance and international coexistence as well as to democracy and freedom as basic components for development. We hope that sustainable development will enrich the daily lives of individuals, families, communities and countries and will preserve our natural resources. Peace, the abolishment of social inequality, environmental sustainability and the sustained growth of our capacity to produce the goods and services required by our peoples go hand-in-hand, and they are the very core of development.﻿I have the singular honour of reading the statement of His Excellency Mr. Al Hadji Yahya A.J.J. Jammeh, the President of the Republic of the Gambia, who would have loved to be here today but was unable to so, owing to unavoidable circumstances. However, he sends his best wishes to all present. I will now read his statement. “First and foremost, I thank Allah, the Almighty, for making another annual gathering of world leaders possible. I would first like to congratulate the President on his election and wish him success in his tenure as he manages the affairs of the Assembly. Let me also pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his tireless leadership and sterling contribution to the creation of a better world for all. “Our world unquestionably continues to be plagued by numerous challenges that can be solved only through our collective response. Multilateral diplomacy and institutions surely offer the best hope yet for tackling our development conundrums, protracted conflicts and man-made and natural disasters. “Peace and security will always remain a cornerstone of the Organization and for that reason my delegation is concerned with the matter and welcomes the President’s choice of the theme ‘Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means’. “As we speak, many conflicts are raging around the world in ways that challenge the credibility and clout of the Organization. The paralysis displayed by our common security mechanisms, for example, is astounding. Geopolitical interests have trampled the goodwill and humanitarian concerns that should compel us all to address those raging infernos — be they in the Middle East, Asia, Africa or elsewhere. Our collective security will continue to be undermined by geopolitical considerations, unless and until we find the courage to reform the Security Council. Ongoing conflicts, for example in Mali, Guinea-Bissau and Syria, are all recent cases in point. The Security Council should not be the stumbling block in the way of the settlement of disputes by peaceful or other means. Rather, it should be a more helpful institution. “My delegation is fully aware of the need for the peaceful settlement of some of the conflicts in Africa, but we are equally aware of the need for robust action in dealing with the spoilers and merchants of death and misery in the continent. The Economic Community of West African States is working to find solutions to all those conflicts but needs, of course, the support of the international community. “We see the role of the Security Council as a partner and enabler of decisive action, but time is running out. The elements of doom have been emboldened by our inaction. The United Nations and the United Nations Office for West Africa must work decisively to address the conflicts in Mali and Guinea-Bissau without delay. The engagement of the African Union (AU) will undoubtedly be crucial. Terrorists, drug dealers and organized criminal networks should be stopped in their tracks at all costs before it is too late. “The relevance of the Organization has at times been questioned, but one element that remains unchallenged is its character as the best forum for confronting global challenges. As we convene to discuss the issues of climate change, economic crises, financial turmoil, food insecurity, conflicts, fighting disease and poverty, or the special interests of Africa, the convening power of the United Nations confers a legitimacy that is indeed unparalleled elsewhere. “As developing countries, we therefore believe in the work that this Organization of ours does, and it is for that reason that we will support the efforts of the President of the General Assembly to revitalize it — as the voice for the voiceless. “We also use this forum to call on the international financial institutions to open up and embrace overdue reforms. They should be transparent and inclusive and raise the profile of their smallest members, such as low-income countries or least developed countries (LDCs). We call on them to embrace the Istanbul Programme of Action for LDCs. “The Istanbul Programme of Action must not become a string of broken promises, unfulfilled commitments and weak resource mobilization, as happened with its predecessors. As LDCs we are ready to hold ourselves accountable for the implementation of the commitments we made in Istanbul. We are equally ready to meet the targets set out in the Programme. It is therefore our collective hope, expectation and belief that our partners and the rest of the international community will also fulfil their commitments and uphold their part of the bargain. Let us work together to bring about the graduation of half of the LDCs by 2020, in line with the target we set ourselves. It is achievable if we all forge the appropriate global partnerships for resource mobilization. “The scorecard on the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) shows that, while some achievements have been made with regard to some of the Goals, a great deal still remains to be achieved. My country has achieved some of the key elements of the MDGs and is on track to meet all of them. In view of the fact that 2015 is just around the corner, we need to do more to mobilize the remaining resources required to further improve the critical links needed for success on the achievement of the MDGs. “Critical to the achievement of the MDGs will be the scaling up of resources by enhancing the global partnerships that we have forged for the Goals. We must mobilize the modest resources that are needed so that 2015 will not be another unfulfilled milestone. “The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) has defined the mechanisms through which sustainable development goals should be negotiated and agreed upon. It is our hope that the consultations on the post-Rio mechanisms will be inclusive, transparent and representative. Beyond managing the depleting resources of the Earth, we must all push for ambitious and realistic goals and targets on sustainable food, water and energy. We must also take into account the special situations of LDCs and other vulnerable groups of countries. “My delegation is of the strong belief that, in the euphoria for sustainable development goals, the drive towards the achievement of the MDGs must not be compromised in any way. We must hold ourselves accountable for meeting the Goals by 2015, and not try to shift the goalposts when the deadline is close at hand. We must also lay a solid groundwork for the post-2015 development agenda. “For developing countries to continue to benefit from the appreciable growth they are experiencing and in order not to compromise their capacities to provide education, health care and other social services to their peoples, debt cancellation or forgiveness is still a key element. Debt servicing still poses a major threat to our ability to attain sustainable growth. It is our belief that our partners and the Bretton Woods institutions should consider the further extension of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative. “As we strive in the Sahel to deal with drought and the crop failure of the past year, allow me to thank the Secretary-General for his laudable efforts, as we heard today, through his initiative for the Sahel and for his plans to assist the region, including Mali. We thank him for that initiative, which we look forward to seeing realized. We also thank all our development partners for the support they have rendered, both to my Government and to the Sahel. We are grateful for their solidarity and humanitarian support. In view of the perennial nature of food insecurity in our region, it is my humble and considered view that the international community needs to do more to render greater support to the agricultural sector of our economies. “The role of the small-scale farmer needs to be boosted, and we must, through global partnerships, fast-track the numerous agricultural initiatives that have been announced to support African agriculture. Agricultural systems across Africa need to be made more resilient in terms of inputs, technological know-how, scientific research and the setting up of related training institutions. The African farmer needs to benefit from modern farming techniques and technology. In that context, I would like to thank the Government and people of Australia for their outstanding generosity towards boosting agriculture and food security in Africa. “With the establishment of UN-Women, the United Nations took a great step forward in mainstreaming the gender dimension into its work. As an ardent supporter of women’s rights and participation in all sectors of society, I must commend UN-Women for the way it has been evolving. We look forward to the establishment of its regional offices. We will work with all concerned to advance the promotion of the rights of women and girls, once we assume our position as a member of the Executive Board. Advancing the welfare of women, which starts with girls as future women, will always be a priority for my Government. “Africa is indeed witnessing a revolution in information and communications technology, which is a critical sector for us. Our considered view is that, with the completion of the Africa Coast to Europe submarine cable network, there will be an even greater transformation in that very important sector. It should further help to increase the transfer of critical technology for the economic advancement of our peoples. “In that project we see a great opportunity for South-South and North-South cooperation in ways that will revolutionize education, agriculture and the provision of health care, among other areas. We therefore call on our partners to support the growth of the information and communications technology sector with a view to enhancing our productive capacity, while also generating youth employment, since youth unemployment is one of the greatest threats to humankind and to our social and economic advancement. We must therefore form partnerships across the globe to address that dangerous phenomenon, which is a disaster waiting to happen. “Allow me to address some recent conflicts that threaten the peace and stability of Africa and the world at large. Our youth, for example, are being sucked into conflicts and a life of crime, with their productive talents being wasted. Our modest gains are being wiped out through instability, and even our societal cohesion is seriously threatened. If we do not act fast now, we risk creating more upheavals, which will overwhelm our capacity to contain them. The international community will therefore pay a very high price if it does not wake up from its slumber and solve the situations in Mali and Guinea-Bissau that I highlighted earlier. “In West Africa, our ongoing security challenges are being compounded by such situations. ECOWAS should not be left alone to shoulder the burden of those conflicts. I am elated by the fact that, this morning, the issues of Mali, the entire Sahel and the Maghreb were discussed. The AU and ECOWAS are ready, and I hope that the international community, particularly the Security Council, is also ready. The AU is ready to act to salvage the situations in Mali and Guinea-Bissau. The Security Council must, as I have said, act with a sense of greater urgency. We cannot let terrorists, drug dealers and organized criminal gangs establish a sanctuary in our backyard. “In line with our foreign policy, the Gambia stands ready, as always, to contribute meaningfully to the settlement of such conflicts. The level of steadfastness shown in solving the conflicts in Liberia and Sierra Leone some years ago must now, we hope, equally be shown in Mali and Guinea-Bissau. “The situation in Darfur continues to occupy the attention of my delegation, as well. We call for more dialogue in finding a lasting solution to that major conflict. We are equally concerned about the lingering conflict between the Sudan and South Sudan. Dialogue is essential, and is the only way forward to solve that conflict. The parties must implement the recommendations of the African Union High-level Implementation Panel and those of the road map. “As they embark on settling the outstanding issues, we urge our brothers and sisters to demonstrate the same magnanimity and extraordinary statesmanship that characterized the establishment of the independence of South Sudan. They should remember that they will be neighbours forever and, as such, are mutually dependent upon each other for their national security. “Let me commend the forces of the African Union Mission in Somalia, the United Nations and the African Union for the progress that they are making in Somalia. The pressure must be sustained until all of Somalia is liberated and is placed under the sole authority of the Somali Government. Insecurity and piracy must be stamped out. The spoilers must be denied sanctuary, lest they continue destabilizing the whole of the Horn of Africa. “As we dwell on such situations, we are equally concerned about the conflicts ravaging the Middle East. Afghanistan, for example, has been in a state of unrest for too long. It is time that Afghans be given enough space and capacity to solve their problems. Home-grown and inclusive dialogue and national reconciliation are the best way forward to lasting peace and stability in that country. “We all witnessed the dramatic and historic events that have recently transformed parts of the Middle East and Africa. It is therefore our hope that those transformations will endure and will nurture the ideals of peace, security, development and democracy. We must not lose sight of some of the negative concomitant effects of those upheavals, as is currently evident in Syria. “My delegation believes that the Annan plan could have brought about stability and could have provided the space for dialogue among the parties, if it had been given a chance. It seems that there is lack of goodwill and trust among the parties, as well as the invisible hand of external elements determined to achieve a particular outcome. Syria is now a deeply divided society. The international community is partly to blame on account of its inaction. “The Palestinian situation is indeed deplorable. It has deteriorated to the point that a one-State solution may be inevitable. In defiance of international law, human decency and restraint, Israel, the occupying Power, is imposing a de facto situation on Palestinians through its despicable settlement activity and land seizures. The sad reality is that it is the mechanisms of the Security Council, which are constantly invoked, that further delay or stifle the action necessary to bring about lasting peace in Palestine. Israel’s excesses, namely, the land seizures, settlement activity, mass imprisonment of Palestinians, denial of revenue, maiming and murder of Palestinians by the State apparatus and many others, must be halted. The truth is bitter when told, but it will set us all free. “Let me also address some burning political issues of our time. The embargo imposed on Cuba by the United States 50 years ago is still in place for no justifiable reason. Even if perhaps it made sense at the time, keeping it in place today does not make any sense at all. It is shameful that, in the twenty-first century, a Cold War relic remains the main stumbling block between the establishment of good-neighbourly relations and the rejection of empty political cacophony in some quarters. We therefore call upon the United States to lift the embargo and throw it into the dustbin of history, where it rightfully belongs. “My delegation would also like to use this rostrum to appeal to the collective membership of the United Nations, including China, to contribute to opening the avenues for Taiwan’s membership in the various funds, agencies, treaty bodies and programmes. That would only enhance the effectiveness of those bodies for our mutual benefit. The world, not only Taiwan, stands to benefit. We all agree that Taiwan is a key player in technology, international trade, politics and many other areas. It has enduring ties with China. We therefore appeal for the practical extension of the rapport that Taiwan has with China to the international stage. China conducts trade, business and tourism with Taiwan. As I speak, both are engaging in discussing a range of bilateral issues. The rest of the international community, including the States Members of the United Nations, should follow suit. Avenues for dialogue must be opened. “The stalled reform of the Security Council is disheartening and even dangerous. Year in and year out, we come to the General Assembly. We meet in various forums to discuss the issues. We hold dialogues and exchanges and come up with proposals. Then we get nowhere. I will mention what Kofi Annan said at the time of launching his well-known report “In larger freedom: towards development, security and human rights for all” (A/59/2005), namely, that no reform of the United Nations is complete without the reform of the Security Council. I think that is critical. It is as valid now as it was when it was said seven years ago. The resistance to change should come to an end. The paralysis of the reform agenda must come to an end. We cannot afford as a group to be in a state of coma when larger regional interests, especially those of Africa, are at stake and get shunted around or jettisoned. Africa needs to be at the table and we will not budge on that demand, as previous speakers have said and as our heads of State have reiterated here. We must reform or risk delegitimizing the actions taken, and the decisions made, in the name of our collective security. “Allow me, at this point, to recognize the appointment of His Excellency Mr. Jan Eliasson, the new Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations. We have confidence in his abilities and experience as an astute statesman. We are also aware of his keen interest in Africa and his engagement with our continent at various periods in his diplomatic life. We therefore look forward to jointly advancing the special needs of Africa with him under the guidance of the Secretary-General. “On a final note, it is my hope that the next Presidents of the General Assembly will consider other themes beyond that of peace and security, although there can be no doubt that peace and security are critical. Where possible an intermarriage of themes might also be considered.” I wish all members a successful General Assembly session.﻿I would like to take this opportunity to warmly congratulate President Vuk Jeremić on his election to the presidency of the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I also pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for his efforts during his tenure. I would also like to commend the continuing commitment and efforts of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. Today our world faces a complex turning point in its history, replete with challenges and opportunities. The deep geopolitical upheavals in our region and the serious problems resulting from the economic and financial crisis attest to that. We believe that our collective faith in multilateralism will help us to unite our efforts to find solutions and overcome the persistent uncertainty that has resulted from those changes. The unprecedented extent of our problems may risk worsening the existing imbalances in relations among nations. All of us, without exception, bear a responsibility for the future of our planet, which we would like to be more just and more united. No country has been spared the consequences of the global crisis, and their management cannot be considered by only a small number of States acting to the exclusion of the rest. Quite the contrary, we all have the right to participate in finding solutions. The slowdown in the world’s economy negatively affects many countries, including those of the developed world, which are facing a sovereign debt crisis and increasing unemployment. Therefore, further efforts are called for to prevent such situations from spilling over to other regions of the world, in particular to Africa. The response to the challenges of the crisis rests with our capacity to find alternatives to the theories and practices of the past, because the new realities of our times require urgent implementation of appropriate and more effective approaches and mechanisms for addressing the crisis. As in previous years, we continue to suffer from the effects of the multidimensional crisis, whether in economic governance or in political coordination. In fact, the return of trust and growth should lead us to step up our efforts to coordinate between the United Nations and multilateral institutions in the economic and financial fields. The United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions should complement each other and act in complete political and economic coordination and harmony. As far as we are concerned, Algeria has shouldered its share of responsibility. It has made enormous sacrifices and continues to rigorously control and manage its expenditures. The fiscal surplus that we have achieved has allowed us to adopt a revived social policy under our five-year plan 2010-2014 that involves redistributing wealth while maintaining investments for economic growth. Algeria has always called for combating the causes and not just the consequences of instability. We have insisted on the important fact that development and peace and security are interrelated, and that the strategies of the United Nations and, in particular, the Security Council, for lasting peace must be thought of in harmony with socioeconomic development policies. In that regard, at the regional level, Algeria is contributing to the process of democratization and the promotion of the rule of law and socioeconomic development. The fight against hunger and poverty, the protection of food security, agriculture, growth, infrastructure, energy and renewable energy are areas in which we cooperate with countries of the Maghreb and the Sahel. Along the same lines, Algeria is sharing with African and Arab countries and with its other partners its experience in the area of fighting terrorism and the interrelated scourges of organized crime and illicit trafficking in drugs and weapons, which are widespread our region. Algeria welcomes the recent changes in some countries of North Africa and the Middle East that reflected the will of their peoples, who are searching for a democratic ideal, justice and dignity. Those are, in fact, the founding principles of the Algerian revolution. Committed to the principle of self-determination of peoples and mutual respect among nations, Algeria condemns all forms of violence and repression, wherever they arise. We will continue to believe that dialogue and negotiation are the best means for settling disputes. Algeria hopes that the people of Western Sahara will exercise their right to self-determination. We urge Morocco and the Frente Polisario to act in good faith and initiate formal talks, under the auspices of the United Nations, with a view to reaching a just and lasting solution, pursuant to the norms and provisions of international law. The search for peace, security and development is a priority for us all. That commitment was formally reaffirmed by the countries of the Non-Aligned Movement, including Algeria, at the Movement’s sixteenth summit, held in Tehran last August. We support the commitment of the United Nations to conflict prevention through its unf lagging diplomatic efforts, and we appreciate our Organization’s role in promoting appropriate solutions to major crises within the context of its tireless and comprehensive efforts to bring about development. Algeria is a member of the special joint committee of the United Nations and the League of Arab States to monitor the Syrian crisis. We supported Mr. Kofi Annan and we will do the same with his successor, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, with a view to reaching a political solution to the acute crisis that is unfolding within that fraternal country. In our region today, we are facing new risks and threats that point to a return of terrorism in its more violent manifestations, along with its interrelated scourges of organized crime and trafficking in drugs and weapons. It is in that context that we have to consider the complex situation in brotherly Mali. That crisis seriously threatens the security of the countries of the Sahel. In fact the deep, root causes of the situation can be attributed to the ills of severe underdevelopment and abject poverty. Algeria acts in concert with the African Union, the Economic Community of West African States and other regional actors concerned with a view to reaching a peaceful and lasting settlement of the crisis in Mali. The roles played by the General Assembly and the Security Council are essential for the preservation and building of peace throughout the world and for the realization of the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter in the areas of international cooperation and development. Moreover, the missions of those two principal and complementary organs are based on legitimacy, contrary to the deadlock in the reform process that began years ago. We must therefore do everything possible to ensure that the General Assembly, the most representative organ of the United Nations, reclaims all its competence in that context. The working methods and membership of the Security Council must be revised to ensure its democratization in terms of new permanent and non-permanent members from the developing world, in particular from Africa, the cradle of civilization. Algeria is proud to celebrate this year the fiftieth anniversary of its independence and of its membership of the United Nations. Faithful to its principles, Algeria has made a wise contribution to the complete decolonization of Africa. Today it enjoys peace with its neighbours with a view to completing the process of regional integration. Algeria would like to become a member of the Human Rights Council, for which it is a candidate for the period 2014-2016, in order to continue defending the values on which its history and its determination to overcome adversity is based. Everyone knows that the road of human rights is littered with many pitfalls and obstacles, such as authoritarianism, xenophobia, poverty, discrimination and unilateral economic sanctions. In that regard, the embargo on Cuba, which has lasted for more than half a century and has created deprivation, is both unfair and anachronistic. Furthermore, attacks on Islam and Muslims are a violation of human rights and a threat to peaceful coexistence among peoples. We should all fight against the phenomenon of Islamophobia, which is based on a xenophobic ideology that erroneously likens Islam to terrorism. That phenomenon must be fought. In that context, the tragic events engendered by the infamous video concerning Islam and its Prophet are reprehensible in many respects. Similary, Algeria condemns acts of violence perpetrated against diplomatic officers and missions, which are vehicles for friendly relations and cooperation among peoples. Algeria proposes an initiative under the auspices of the United Nations to identify the ways and means to organize a response that puts an end to such hateful events, which threaten international peace and security. In that regard, we cannot forget that the appropriate and responsible use of freedom of expression should also endow our world with a more human and brotherly face through the promotion of dialogue among religions and cultures. At the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly, Algeria would like to welcome the State of Palestine as a new Member of the United Nations family, recognized within its 1967 borders, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. We believe that the time has come for Palestine to be fully represented at the centre of this irreplaceable international forum, the United Nations. Recognition of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people to sovereignty and self- determination is an inalienable right and a necessary precondition for a just and lasting peace in the Middle East, which is currently being prevented by the Israeli policy of occupation. In addition, the creation of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East is an important confidence-building measure. In that regard, we support the efforts of the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of Finland, Jaakko Laajava, as facilitator for the conference on the establishment of a Middle East zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction, to be held before the end of this year in Helsinki. Algeria is committed to a global and ambitious agreement to protect the environment and promote sustainable development. In that regard, we are grateful to the Group of 77 and China, which we have the honour to preside over this year, for its constant support and cooperation, which has made it possible to achieve the results of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, the strengthening of the Nairobi Work Programme and the preparations for the next conferences on climate change and biodiversity. Algeria urges Member States to shoulder their responsibilities in implementing the commitments entered into under the concept of common but differentiated responsibility, that is, namely, the financing of the transfer of know- how, technology and capacity-building in the area of sustainable development. The President of the Republic, Mr. Abdelaziz Boutef lika, has given new impetus to the programme of reforms aimed at strengthening the democratic process, the rule of law and the advancement of women. The legislative elections of 10 May 2012 yielded a significant increase in women’s representation, with 146 women Members of Parliament, representing one third of the Lower Chamber. Our country has made tangible progress in the political, economic and social areas, and we continue our efforts to establish and consolidate our democratic freedoms based on the principle of equal opportunity embodied in our Constitution. Those steps have enabled our country to achieve in general the Millennium Development Goals prior to 2015. That led to Algeria being chosen as one of the 50 countries selected by the United Nations for consultations on the Millennium Development Goals and the post-2015 development agenda. In conclusion, I thank members for their attention and wish them every success in the work of our session.﻿I wish at the outset to express my sincere gratitude for being given the honour of speaking from this lofty rostrum. Allow me first of all to convey to the members of the Assembly and to the peoples of their countries the greetings and wishes for peace and prosperity of His Excellency the President of Turkmenistan, Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov. Allow me to congratulate His Excellency Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to wish him every success in his upcoming critical work. I would also like to express appreciation to His Excellency Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, for the skilful and effective manner in which he carried out his duties. Today the international community is witness to complex, multifaceted processes in geopolitics, the global economy and the humanitarian sphere. Serious environmental problems challenge us with their unprecedented urgency. It is no exaggeration to say that major global issues related to energy supplies acquiring universal importance. All of these require a constructive and effective response on the part of the United Nations and the elaboration of appropriate international mechanisms aimed at maximizing the effective use of existing political, financial, organizational and other resources, so as to overcome existing problems and challenges, enhance mutual understanding and trust, and reaffirm the irreversibility of the process of sustainable development of all the peoples of our planet. Objectively speaking, energy security is fundamental to the stable and conflict-free development of today’s world. As a leading energy provider with the fourth-largest reserves of hydrocarbon resources, Turkmenistan legitimately and consistently calls for the establishment of a sound and reliable international energy supply system and the drawing up of plans and projects for cooperation in world energy markets appropriate to modern realities. We believe that it is now time for the United Nations to adopt consensus decisions on universal political and legal mechanisms to govern global energy cooperation. As members know, at previous General Assembly sessions, the President of Turkmenistan launched a number of initiatives on energy security and mutually beneficial cooperation in the energy sector. The realities of modern life affirm the relevance of such initiatives. As a step towards those initiatives, Turkmenistan proposes that States Members of the United Nations consider in depth the establishment of an international legal framework to govern the operation of an energy supply system, taking into due account the interests of hydrocarbon producers and transit and recipient nations. As a first step in that direction, we believe that it would be appropriate to draw up a draft resolution during this session on the establishment of an expert group to develop the relevant United Nations international instrument. At the same time, we look forward to constructive engagement with all States Members of the United Nations, which, we believe, would significantly help to find common approaches to solving one of the most urgent problems of modern development. The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held in June this year, clearly identified the need to strengthen our efforts on ecological issues and environmental protection. Speaking at the meeting, the President of Turkmenistan noted that, at the institutional level, today’s main objective is to merge and complement existing global, regional and national instruments. It is no secret that the Central Asian and Caspian Sea regions have difficult environmental conditions. We think that the efforts made to date to improve the situation are clearly insufficient. We need a joint and results-oriented action plan that combines the use of scientific, technological, political, diplomatic, administrative and technical measures for effective outcomes in that direction. We therefore propose setting up, in cooperation with the United Nations, a regional centre for climate change technologies in Central Asia and the Caspian basin. We believe that such a structure would enable the countries in those regions to significantly strengthen cooperation on ecological safety. It would promote the effective coordination of national, regional and international efforts and would further mutual understanding and confidence-building towards achieving sustainable development goals. With regard to international politics, Turkmenistan gives particular attention to the issues of peace and security and to ensuring sustainable development. In that context, one of the main challenges facing the international community today is the need for our joint efforts to ensure non-proliferation and disarmament. As a party to the principal international treaties and United Nations conventions in that field, Turkmenistan expects to continue to fully support global disarmament processes. We believe that it is relevant to pursue the multilateral dialogue on the validity of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We propose that a high-level consultative meeting be held next year, under the auspices of the United Nations, to discuss steps to expand the international non-proliferation legal framework. Turkmenistan’s initiative is particularly relevant to the practical implementation of steps towards a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia. As we know, the agenda of the sixty-seventh session includes an item on a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia. Our country is ready to actively cooperate with the Office of the Under-Secretary-General for Disarmament Affairs and to participate in a number of initiatives in that regard. Given that further improving relevant United Nations agencies may be one practical step in implementing consistent disarmament measures, we think it appropriate to consider the establishment of a United Nations subregional centre for disarmament in Asia. Strengthening comprehensive, targeted and long- term cooperation with the United Nations is a strategic choice of Turkmenistan and a priority of its foreign policy. As an important part of that cooperation, our country is considering participating in United Nations activities to ensure human development, better living standards and people’s well-being; to establish conditions conducive to global economic and social growth; to utilize human creativity; and to promote people’s rights and freedoms. In pursuing those lofty goals and striving to contribute, where possible, to their achievement, Turkmenistan has announced its candidacy for membership of the Economic and Social Council for the period 2013-2015. That decision was made on the basis of the country’s current progress in the political, socioeconomic, cultural and other fields, its active role in international processes and its understanding of the responsibilities inherent to membership of the Council. If elected, Turkmenistan plans to use all available means to improve international cooperation for the effective implementation of sustainable development goals. At the same time, Turkmenistan will actively contribute to strengthening the Economic and Social Council by expanding its role in addressing the urgent issue of global socioeconomic development. The most important element of the modern system of international relations is humanitarian cooperation. To underscore that the humanitarian component is at the centre of the highest principles and values of the community of nations, our country will continue to promote its cooperation with the United Nations on protecting human rights and on establishing conditions conducive to human development. On that basis, given that the United Nations plays a major role in the comprehensive development of humanity and bearing in mind the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, we believe it appropriate during this sixty- seventh session to consider including the humanitarian issues on the United Nations international agenda as a separate issue. In that context, Turkmenistan proposes establishing a United Nations platform of action for humanitarian affairs with a view to it becoming the political and legal basis for the consolidation of the international community’s humanitarian efforts. We believe that such a holistic approach will enable us to galvanize the activities of United Nations agencies, to develop long-term solutions in line with international law and General Assembly resolutions, and to ensure the practical implementation of United Nations conventions on humanitarian matters. In conclusion, I would like to emphasize that our foreign policy, which is based on our love of peace, on neutrality and on broad international cooperation, together with the constructive positions advocated by our country, form a solid basis for Turkmenistan’s work in the United Nations. In that spirit, we will rely on broad cooperation with all countries of the world in order to strengthen and develop a comprehensive international partnership.﻿On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Angola, I avail myself of this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election to preside over the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to assure him of the support of my country in the fulfilment of his mission. It is our belief that under his leadership this session will confirm the importance and role of the General Assembly in finding solutions to the burning issues affecting humankind, thereby helping to make the world safer and fairer. I would also like to express our gratitude to Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for the exemplary and wise manner in which he conducted the work of the Assembly at its previous session. I further salute Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for the dynamism he has invested in the work of our Organization. In this connection, I would like to thank him for his visit to my country in February of this year, during the celebration of the tenth anniversary of the advent of peace in Angola. During that visit, he had the opportunity to familiarize himself with the progress made in the reconstruction of the country and consolidation of democratic institutions. This session of the General Assembly is taking place at a time of profound international political, economic and social transformations, which reaffirm the relevance of the central theme of our discussion: maintaining international peace and security, eradicating poverty, promoting development, protecting the environment and ensuring a better future for generations to come, guaranteeing the rule of law in international relations, and promoting and ensuring the protection of human rights. These are indeed the main challenges facing us today. In addition to these, there are further challenges requiring priority attention from our Organization, including disarmament, the fight against organized crime, the implementation of the Global Counter- Terrorism Strategy, and the persistence of armed conflicts and their impact on people’s lives. Having had the painful experience of war, which still has major consequences for the lives of our people, Angola reiterates that dialogue and negotiation are the way to a peaceful resolution of conflict. Angola will continue to meet its obligations and fulfil its responsibilities at the international level, in particular with regard to Africa as a whole, as well as in the context of the regional economic and political groups to which it belongs, including the Southern African Development Community, the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries, the Economic Community of Central African States and the International Conference of the Great Lakes Region. The international economic and financial crisis that is affecting all countries in the world continues to demand solutions, including the reform of the economic, financial and international trade system in order to serve the interests of all countries in a global perspective. In this regard, my Government reiterates its support for initiatives aimed at liberalizing international trade in line with the Doha Round. The reform of the international economic and financial system’s regulatory institutions is of crucial importance to ensure greater flexibility and transparency in allocating capital to the least developed countries — a category that includes the majority of African nations. It is also essential to take appropriate measures towards strengthened support for international action on sustainable development and increased financial contributions to the United Nations to enable our Organization to fulfil its mandate efficiently. It must do so by renewing its commitments to the sustainable development issues contained in Agenda 21, adopted at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development provided a solid framework for creating national and international policies to ensure the social, economic and environmental welfare of our peoples. We note that despite the progress made, there is a continued need for the international community to translate commitments into action in order to achieve sustainable development. Africa in general, and my country in particular, believe that intensive efforts on the part of the international community are needed to tackle the phenomena that threaten to reverse progress made with respect to development. Drought and desertification, climate change, natural disasters, loss of biodiversity and rapid urbanization are just some of the factors that adversely affect development efforts worldwide. The Security Council plays a key role in preventing and resolving conflicts, and in peacekeeping efforts, in accordance with the powers conferred upon it by the Charter of the United Nations. The central theme at the heart of our debate calls for reform of the Security Council, as well as ensuring the fair representation of all regions and the broadening of its permanent membership in order to adapt it to contemporary reality. Allow me to refer to a set of conflicts that are of critical concern to my country. In the Great Lakes region, the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo continues to worry the international community. My country reaffirms its support for the decisions of the third extraordinary summit of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region, held in Kampala, as well as the efforts of the African Union and the Southern African Development Community. Angola welcomes the normalization of the legal and constitutional order in Somalia as a result of the completion of the transition process, including the inauguration of President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud. Given that the situation remains unstable, Angola urges the international community to continue to support the stabilization process in that country. The situation in the Sudan has seen positive developments. Angola welcomes the recent agreements between the sisterly Republics of South Sudan and the Sudan, with a view to the settling of their disputes. Angola urges stakeholders to engage with one another and to show the political will necessary to implement the commitments undertaken. With respect to Mali, Angola deplores the worsening humanitarian situation resulting from the crisis prevailing in that country. Angola calls upon the international community to demonstrate its determination to preserve the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Mali. In the sisterly nation of Guinea-Bissau, we advocate a comprehensive solution and the permanent normalization of the constitutional order, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, the African Union, the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries and the Economic Community of West African States, as well as the wishes of all the internal actors, in order to stabilize the country and establish peace. We remain concerned about the lack of progress in resolving the issue of Western Sahara. We call on the parties involved to continue negotiations under the auspices of the United Nations so that the people of Western Sahara can exercise their right of self- determination. The prevailing situation in the Middle East in general, and the Palestinian territories in particular, is one of the most serious problems facing the international community. Angola supports the creation of an independent Palestinian State living side by side with the State of Israel in peace and security and within secure internationally recognized borders, in line with the position of the international community. The conflict in Syria poses a grave threat to international peace and security and will seriously exacerbate the humanitarian situation in the region. Angola urges the international community to support the efforts of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria, to seek a negotiated solution to the conflict. The embargo imposed on Cuba violates international law and for decades has been a major impediment to that country’s development and improvements in the lives of its citizens. Angola reiterates its principled position affirming the need to end the embargo in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions. Angola’s foreign policy will continue to be based on mutual respect, mutual benefit, good-neighbourliness and the strengthening of regional economic integration. Angola will continue to comply with all the international commitments and international instruments to which it is a party. Ten years after achieving peace, Angola has recorded significant progress in consolidating its democratic process. General elections were held on 31 August in a civil and peaceful atmosphere, thus demonstrating the maturity of its people. The results expressed the sovereign will of the Angolan people, as verified by international observers who closely followed the election. Currently, Angola is joyfully celebrating the investiture of its organs of State sovereignty, including the President of the Republic and the National Assembly, as well as the assumption of office by members of the Government. It is experiencing a dynamic reconstruction and development process marked by the consolidation of macroeconomic stability that has had positive effects on the stabilization of the national currency. In addition, the rehabilitation and modernization of major productive and social infrastructure, namely the reconstruction of roads, railways, electricity supply and distribution systems, water supply systems and sanitation and telecommunication networks, are contributing to the progressive improvement of the living conditions of Angolans. Political stability and the strengthening of institutional capacity have enabled the Angolan economy to grow at an average rate of 9.2 per cent over the past five years, while the non-oil sector has grown at an average rate of 12 per cent. Those growth rates were due to effective measures by the Government aimed at stabilizing the fiscal, monetary and currency macroeconomic indicators and thereby facilitating the revival of the economy. The fi ght against hunger and the struggle to reduce and eradicate poverty are two of the biggest challenges being addressed by the Angolan State owing to their impact on people’s lives. Indeed, their resolution is crucial if we are to build a more prosperous society and achieve social justice. Despite Angola’s successes in the last decade, it was not possible to achieve the Millennium Development Goals as we had wished. However, the country’s macroeconomic development indicators have permitted the Committee for Development Policy of the Economic and Social Council to consider Angola eligible to graduate from its least developed country status starting in 2015. On behalf of the Angolan Government, we would like to express our gratitude for the trust that investors have shown in us and for the assistance provided by international partners which, added to investment from national sources, has allowed us to achieve the level of economic growth the country has been experiencing. We are aware that there is still much to do to ensure that the high growth rates the country has seen in the recent past are reflected in an effective, systematic and gradual increase in the standard of living of the Angolan people, through a better distribution of national income and higher employment levels, especially among youth, and increased and better investment in the area of social welfare. In conclusion, I must reiterate Angola’s commitment to the purposes and principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations and state that we will continue to engage in the search for solutions to the challenges facing the international community.﻿At the outset, allow me to express our warm congratulations to Mr. Vuk Jeremič on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I am confident that his experience will ensure the success of our meetings. I should like to commend his predecessor, Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, and to express my appreciation and gratitude to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his efforts to strengthen the role of the United Nations. It is my hope that deliberations at this session will be successful, which would contribute to fulfilling the hopes and aspirations of the peoples of the world to a life of security, peace and stability, on the basis of the values and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. We were pleased to see that the main theme for this session of the General Assembly relates to the peaceful settlement of disputes. That principle is a fundamental one, as the Charter of the United Nations stresses the need to maintain international peace and security by pacific means or through effective collective measures aimed at eliminating threats to international peace and security, in accordance with the Charter and international law. The peaceful settlement of disputes requires joint efforts on the part of the international community in order to tackle the root causes of conflicts. We believe that the absence of sustainable and balanced development is one of the main reasons why a small minority of people have been able to appropriate the greatest wealth in the world while the vast majority of humankind lives in abject poverty, lacking all basic services. Greater efforts must therefore be made to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. Disseminating a culture of peace, tolerance, respect for others and the prevention of any violence or incitement to cultural, religious, sectarian or ethnic strife must be among the fundamental priorities and concerns of the United Nations. The Organization must ensure that no offensive statements about prophets are made under the pretext of freedom of expression. Perhaps the latest video insulting Prophet Muhammad and the reactions thereto are the best evidence of the seriousness of this issue and its effect on international peace and security. My country suffered through a long conflict — more than six decades — that hampered the achievement of peace, development and stability, and had strong negative repercussions on the region. Proceeding from the conviction of my Government as to the need to put an end to that conflict, on the basis of United Nations instruments for the pacific settlement of disputes, difficult and thorny negotiations began that took over a decade and culminated in the signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) under the auspices of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD). Many regional and international partners helped in reaching that Agreement. The Government of the Sudan was committed to implementing the Agreement during the prescribed time frame, which led to the known referendum in which the people of South Sudan decided to secede. The Government of the Sudan immediately recognized the Government of South Sudan and fully committed itself to assisting that nascent State, as was stated by the President of my country — Mr. Omer Hassan Al-Bashir — personally when the new State was born in the south. Despite all of the assistance provided by my country to facilitate the birth of the Republic of South Sudan, many obstacles have cropped up on the road to the normalization of relations between the two neighbourly countries. The delay in the drafting of important agreements provided for in the CPA following the referendum has led to many tensions, resulting in the adoption by the African Union Peace and Security Council of a road map in April 2012 and in Security Council resolution 2046 (2012), which stresses the spirit of the African Union decision. We have begun a new phase of serious negotiations under the African Union High-level Implementation Panel, headed by President Thabo Mbeki, which led to the signing on 27 September in Addis Ababa of very important agreements on the economy, security and citizenship status in both States and a framework agreement for cooperation between the two countries in all fields. None of that would have taken place without the firm determination, wisdom and patience of my President, Omer Al-Bashir, who insisted on the need to resolve disputes by peaceful means, beginning with the signing of the CPA, the Abuja Agreement on Darfur, the agreement on Eastern Darfur and the Darfur Document. That has shown the world that Sudan’s leadership acts on the basis of firm principles that prize security and stability and are aimed at achieving peace and development. We want everyone to know that the goal of attempts to distort Sudan’s image and impugn its leadership is merely to defame us and that they are devoid of any substance. We in the Sudan have been determined to address the reasons underlying war and strife despite the strong economic and political pressures brought to bear against my country and the unfair sanctions imposed by the United States of America. The Sudan requires assistance in order to traverse this very sensitive stage towards better horizons, and to that end we believe that the sanctions must be lifted, our debt cancelled and our economy supported. The Sudan has repeatedly stressed its commitment to a policy of good-neighbourliness and is determined to strengthen its brotherly relations with South Sudan. The great achievements registered have brought an end to the longest war on the Africa continent. With the same determination, we have attempted to tackle the few remaining issues. In order to ensure continuing sincere cooperation with the Republic of South Sudan, on Thursday, 27 September 2012, an agreement was signed in the Ethiopian capital between the two Governments on security, the economy, borders, oil, trade, rates of exchange, pensions, debts and other economic issues. That is an important step that shows Sudan’s commitment to a policy of good-neighbourliness and its determination to improve brotherly relations with South Sudan and to reach a comprehensive understanding on all issues. Despite the fact that no agreement has been reached on the final status of Abyei, and no terms of reference have been found for its resolution, the Sudan stresses its full support for the Abyei protocol and agreement of June 2011, as well as the referendum law on Abyei signed by both parties in the Sudanese Parliament in 2010. We must stress here the important role played by the two parties, with the mediation of the late Ethiopian Prime Minister, Mr. Meles Zenawi, and his successor, Mr. Hailemariam Desalegn, in the context of the presidency of IGAD, as well as by other international partners. Without those efforts, no agreement could have been reached or signed with South Sudan. We would therefore like to stress the importance of mediation and serious negotiations in resolving disputes by peaceful means. Allow me also to stress the role of the international community in fulfilling its responsibility to help both parties and to keep all promises made following the signing of the CPA by providing assistance in funds and in kind for the development and growth of the Sudan and South Sudan. In his statement, the Vice-President of South Sudan asserted that his country lays claim to Heglig and sympathizes with those bearing arms against us in South Kordofan and Blue Nile states (see A/67/PV.13). That is regrettable and goes outside the spirit of the agreement of Addis Ababa, taking us back to square one as far as conflicts are concerned. As I have said before, I sincerely hope that those words of the Vice-President were intended to be delivered to the General Assembly before the agreement was reached in Addis Ababa. The Government of the Sudan calls on the international community to put further pressure on the rebels to stop attacks on South Kordofan and Blue Nile states. Let me also say that the Government of the Sudan will continue to live up to its responsibilities with respect to the protection of civilians and the completion of development projects. Blue Nile state is now home to the largest development project in the Sudan — the building of a dam — together with many other development projects. The Government has a green-land policy designed to expand agricultural projects in South Kordofan and a policy to improve water quality and education and health services there. Moreover, proceeding from our belief that it is the fundamental responsibility of the Government to protect its citizens, we renew our commitment to the joint tripartite initiative between the United Nations, the African Union and the League of Arab States to bring humanitarian assistance to civilians in the regions controlled by rebels in South Kordofan and Blue Nile states. Despite the efforts made by the Sudan to tackle the negative effects following the secession of the south, the burden of foreign debt weighs very heavily on the Sudanese economy. Let me take this opportunity to recall the pledges of the international community, following the signing of the CPA, to cancel the Sudan’s debts. Those promises have gone unmet. I am sure the Assembly knows that the issue of debts was among the fundamental questions that were discussed with the Government of South Sudan. Based on the zero-option approach, we are determined to work with our brothers in the Government of South Sudan to take the steps agreed upon with the international community and our creditors so that we both may enjoy the fruits of peace and ensure the viability of the two States. At the same time, we stress the need to lift the coercive unilateral sanctions imposed on the Sudan, which run counter to General Assembly resolutions and international norms and laws. At this point, we cannot fail to mention the progress made in sustainable development in Africa or the fact that such progress has not risen to the ambitious level of the objectives set forth in the Millennium Development Goals. International cooperation and effective partnerships are thus required, in the form of the complete cancellation of debts, in accordance with the Debt Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries, if we are to fulfil our commitments and build national capacities. My country is also witnessing another important development — the signing of the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur, following the peace negotiations that took place under the auspices of the State of Qatar. I should like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to Qatar and His Highness Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani for their much-appreciated efforts on behalf of peace and stability in Darfur. The Doha Document has been widely accepted and supported by the people of Darfur and the regional and international communities. With that instrument, we have turned a new page in the book on Darfur — towards stability, development, peace and the return of displaced persons — after closing the chapter on fighting. We call on the international community to protect and secure the peace by countering the armed rebel groups that have refused to join the peace process. We further call on the Security Council to put pressure on those movements in order to compel them to subscribe to the Doha Document. I would also appeal to the international community to effectively participate in the donors’ conference for the rebuilding of Darfur to be held in December in Doha. The Government of the Sudan will continue to implement its five-point strategy for Darfur’s development. We shall give the utmost priority to the return of displaced persons and refugees, in coordination with the regional body that was set up pursuant to the Doha agreement. The parties have begun to fulfil their duties in implementing the Doha peace agreement, and now the five provinces of Darfur are enjoying security, stability and a return to normality. That, in turn, has led the Security Council to reduce the number of military contingents in the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur, because, as expected, there has been a general improvement in both the security and the humanitarian situations. That improvement crowned with success the many efforts made by the Government of the Sudan, paved the way for launching development projects in Darfur and facilitated the return of displaced persons and refugees to their homes and villages to resettle and re-engage in production and development. The current session is being held while the world is witnessing many varied and intertwined changes and developments. Those require cooperation and coordination between members of the international community for the good of humankind. We must make sure that the reform of the United Nations and its principal and subsidiary bodies is given the importance it deserves. It has now become necessary to accelerate the reform of the Organization so that it can undertake its role in a just, transparent and effective manner and confront the challenges that the world faces. Indeed, the reform will not be genuine unless the General Assembly can play its full role in a balanced and transparent manner. The reform of the Security Council is a fundamental part of the reform of the United Nations. The Council no longer reflects the realities of today’s world. Unless its membership is enlarged, unless working methods and procedures are reformed, and unless its decisions are taken in a more democratic and transparent way, reform will not be comprehensive but will merely be partial or transitional. We call today for a more balanced, multilateral and just international system. What is needed is a system able to tackle the challenges that we face, one in which respect for international law prevails, in which the primary rules are the purposes and principles of the United Nations, including respect for the sovereignty of States, non-intervention in their internal affairs for any ostensible reason and the non-use or threat of force. The Sudan is greatly concerned about new concepts and agendas that are not internationally agreed, controversial concepts such as humanitarian intervention, preventive wars, the responsibility to protect, political and economic sanctions and new mechanisms to bring pressure to bear on States, politicizing international justice. In this context, the Sudan refuses and rejects the approach taken by the so-called International Criminal Court. That body has gone beyond the boundaries set for it at its founding Rome Conference. Regrettably, it is now a political tool that criminalizes entire States, while fully ignoring heinous crimes being perpetrated by other States in the name of humanity and the fight against terrorism. Rejection of the request of the Palestinian Authority by the Court is clear evidence of injustice in the name of law and a good example of the politicization of justice. The phenomenon of climate change corroborates what we have already said. The problems associated with it have grown ever greater and States cannot tackle them on their own. That is the case too for many other issues, such as energy, food security, immigration and terrorism. We therefore believe in the need to strengthen international cooperation on climate change, based on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. We commend the State of Brazil for hosting the Conference on Sustainable Development in July and for the effective role it played in reaching agreement on its final document (resolution 66/288, annex). That outcome reflects the fundamental concerns of Member States, stresses the promotion of international cooperation for sustainable development through a green economy and strengthens the institutional framework for sustainable development. We hope that the implementation of the concept of the green economy will take into account the differences between developed and developing countries, so that all may implement their own green policies, and will ensure the f low of financial, technical and technological assistance to developing countries without discrimination. My delegation condemns all forms and manifestations of terrorism, whether perpetrated by individuals, groups or States. Terrorism is a phenomenon that is not linked to any one religion, culture or State. We also renew the call for an internationally agreed definition of terrorism, since terrorism is a grave threat to all our societies. We must not confuse the concept of terrorism with that of legitimate struggle against foreign occupation, invasion or colonialism. We also reject the stigma of terrorism currently being attached to particular cultures, groups, religions or ethnicities. Measures taken to fight terrorism must not infringe on public freedoms, human rights or a State’s sovereignty over its territory. The current session of the General Assembly coincides with some important indicators in the international economy. First and foremost are the consequences of the world financial crisis and the escalation in the price of staples, particularly food staples, and their effect on sustainable development. Despite that, the Government of the Sudan is making major efforts to realize economic and social development in the country, in the belief that that can only come about through realizing peace and security and growth. That was reflected in the Sudan’s commitment to implementing the objectives of the long-term national strategy for 2007-2013 and our Poverty Reduction Strategy. The question of Palestine has been on the agenda of the United Nations for more than six decades. Our Organization has adopted countless resolutions that were rejected or remained unimplemented by Israel. Israel continues to defy the will of the international community. The Sudan expresses its full support for the decision by the Palestinian Authority to seek membership in the United Nations. It is their legal right, based on the right to self-determination, one of the fundamental principles of international law. The situation in the Middle East continues to be a threat to international peace and security, despite continuing declarations by the Arab side of their wish to reach a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the region, based on the relevant United Nations resolutions and the Arab Peace Initiative. However, Israel, the occupying Power, continues to reject the option of peace. It continues its inhuman, unjust siege, which is in contravention of international law. It also continues its plans for colonialist settlement. It continues to try to change the demographic character of Al-Quds Al-Sharif by demolishing homes, uprooting trees and engaging in ethnic cleansing and coercive displacement, as well as detaining thousands of Palestinians. We renew our call on the United Nations, and the Security Council in particular, to shoulder their responsibility for maintaining international peace and security and to take the requisite measures to end Israeli occupation of Arab and Palestinian land. From this rostrum, we renew our call for the establishment of a Middle East zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction. Meanwhile, we also underline the right of States to obtain nuclear technology for peaceful uses, and we call for the resolution of disputes through negotiations and dialogue, free from attempts to spread fear and tension in the region. Also with regard to the Middle East, my delegation expresses its deep sadness and regret at the current developments in Syria. There has been an escalation of violence and an excessive use of force. That is not the right way to resolve the disputes. From this rostrum, we call on all parties to heed the voice of reason, to enter into negotiations and to cease hostilities and military confrontation. We believe that the appointment of the new Joint Special Representative, Lakhdar Brahimi, to the region is a good opportunity to continue to seek a peaceful settlement to the dispute, and we hope that all parties will cooperate with him, to protect Syria and its social fabric. The Sudan welcomes the latest political developments in Somalia, notably its recent successful presidential elections. We congratulate the new President, Hassan Sheikh Mohamud, and we wish him every success in promoting peace and security in Somalia. In this context, the Sudan commends the African Union for its efforts in Somalia. We call on the international community to support those efforts and to stand shoulder to shoulder with the fraternal Somali people at this critical juncture in the country’s history. We want Somalia to resume its natural role within the international community. In conclusion, let me express our sincere good wishes for a successful session under the wise leadership of President Vuk Jeremić.﻿We often invoke the phrase “the spirit of San Francisco”. We do that when we speak and think about positive aspects of international relations. Indeed, the message sent from the 1945 Conference in San Francisco offered immense hope to the generation that had just survived the most horrible war ever experienced — hope for building a fundamentally new world. Justice was intended to replace violence, cooperation was to replace lawlessness. The United Nations, founded in that city, was called upon to become the key element of a new order. Have the hopes, born in San Francisco, come true? To some extent, they have. After all, today there is no sign of the sharp ideological confrontation that characterized the twentieth century. Nor is there the direct, open conflict between the major Powers that had marked all previous centuries with its violence. What is more, such scourges as colonialism, slavery and apartheid have been irrevocably consigned to oblivion. But the spirit of San Francisco was about something more than just preventing the recurring mistakes of the past. First and foremost, it was a message about a promising future. Unfortunately, that is precisely what has failed to become a reality. Why? Reinhold Niebuhr, an outstanding American philosopher who was writing in those fateful times, noted that general community is established only when the knowledge that we need one another is supplemented by the recognition that the other form of life, or that unique other community, is the limit beyond which our ambitions must not run. Today that point is as insightful as it was then. Some countries see neither the limits of their foreign policy nor forms of statehood other than their own. And that is exactly what gives rise to many of today’s geopolitical problems. States that refuse to follow patterns imposed from the outside and choose to defend their real sovereignty must pay dearly for that right. Take the case of Cuba. The historic choice to pursue an independent path of development that was made by its people more than five decades ago encountered rejection and economic blockade on the part of those who still believe, in the twenty-first century, that they can continue to write the history of humankind in the same manner as they did in the past. And that is not the only example. Belarus is fully convinced that any attempt to make someone do something against their will is doomed to fail. Are we not learning the lessons of the past? After all, neither weapons nor wealth constitute the greatest source of power on Earth. That power stems rather from the spirit of self-determination. If a nation has embarked on its own path of peaceful and progressive development, then no external force is able to stop it in its tracks. Battles can be won against such a nation, but never wars. The time of imperialism, in whatever lofty slogans it is now being dressed — democracy, human rights, good governance — is irreversibly past. Furthermore, today we are weighed down by global economic challenges, nearly all of which have resulted from a policy of so-called market fundamentalism relentlessly pursued by its proponents over the past four decades. Its major outcome is a steady rise in inequality at all levels. Essentially we are witnessing the great divergence. Clearly, the situation resembles a slowly ticking time-bomb of future mass upheavals fraught with unpredictable consequences. Unfortunately, the current economic woes are structural and therefore unlikely to be quickly and decisively resolved. That is attested to by the fact that the crisis persists all over the world four years after it began. The measures adopted over that period have failed to do much to remedy the situation. Yet, what is far more disturbing is that the countries whose policies had nothing to do with market fundamentalism have also experienced severe hardships. Because of the growing global interdependence of all aspects of international life, they simply have no other option. We call attention to another chronic ailment of modernity, of a moral nature. Double standards in the foreign policy of the world Powers have become a norm. As a result, those major world players are willing to go to great lengths to cater to the interests of their “friends”. Yet they advocate the forced imposition of democracy and human rights on their adversaries. Guided solely by their own interests, the players who were shaking hands with you yesterday openly contribute to your downfall today. In considering human rights situations in other countries under a microscope, those players have refused to acknowledge the obvious faults in their own countries. In other words, we have come to witness the rise of unscrupulous and barbaric behaviour in foreign policy that is worthy of the teachings of Machiavelli himself. It is unfortunate that the United Nations, by and large, has been sidelined in that context. Nevertheless, it has not been the fault of the Organization. The brainchild of San Francisco has simply not been allowed to function in the manner conceived by its founders. Is there a way out of the seemingly hopeless situation? We are certain that there is. The current challenges have not become insurmountable yet. We will be able to overcome them. However, that will require us to revive the spirit of San Francisco. We should return to the principles and foundations, which could serve as the building blocks for a better world today. Multilateralism, justice and cooperation are as relevant today as they were in 1945. So, what in practical terms must be done? Belarus does not pretend to have exhaustive answers. We would like just to draw attention to four areas that, in our view, are most crucial: the rule of law, politics, economics and the environment. First, to establish the rule of law globally, the system of international law must become fully functional. Forged through centuries of suffering, it is the foundation without which all other elements of modern civilization cannot operate. Having signed the Charter of the United Nations, the world’s countries committed themselves to abide by the principles of international law. In other words, they refused to live any longer under conditions of destructive anarchy and lawlessness. International law has been shaped as a historic compromise between the interests of all States. It may be supplemented and revised only if all States agree to do so. There should be no place for arbitrary interpretations that seek to subordinate international law to private interests. Let us bear in mind that such behaviour leads to infringement of the interests of other international actors. That is why no trendy concepts such as humanitarian intervention or responsibility to protect can justify interference in the internal affairs of sovereign States. Secondly, in political terms, we need a stable and predictable global order. It is up to us whether we will have one. Global systems cannot establish and manage themselves — they result from human action. At this point we are living in a system that may be viewed as a dysfunctional multipolarity. Indeed, we are forced to witness a rising number of global players that are proving unable to cope effectively with increasing global demands. If we fail to restructure the situation, then we will most likely end up with a scenario that is even worse — something that resembles the dark era of the Middle Ages but aggravated by ever more dangerous transnational threats and challenges. Thus, again we return to the perennial question: how is it possible to build an effective global order in a world that lacks a global government?We can offer an idea. A response would involve addressing the structural issue by means of a functional approach. Let us try to devise an effective global system by tackling specific functional problems. After all, is it not the case that all positive-minded global stakeholders have an interest in addressing fewer problems or eliminating them altogether? We are deeply convinced that global partnerships will provide the means whereby we realize that vision. They can bring together multiple players on the world stage in a common effort against specific transnational threats and challenges. So let us begin working on and implementing functional partnerships on each of the issues. Indeed, my country has already been doing just that, for instance, in the fight against human trafficking within the framework of the global partnership against slavery and human trafficking proposed by Belarus some time ago. Thirdly, there is the economic dimension. Mass protests across the world, like the Occupy Wall Street movement, testify to public rejection of the prevailing development model. This is hardly surprising; after all, the model was built with the interests of corporate capital in mind. Clearly, the classic recipe of Adam Smith does not work in a modern world. Contrary to general expectations, the invisible hand of the market has not led to universal public well-being. The experience of the past few decades indicates that the invisible hand contributes to the enrichment of the corporate sector alone, while impoverishing others. The global economy of the twenty-first century is too sophisticated to be left to the whims of market forces. That economy requires a reasonable balance among its various elements. As far as the balance per se is concerned, it cannot be established by default, someone must do it. Only a State is able to accomplish that task, and more crucially, a strong, socially oriented State that does not live by borrowing from future generations, as is currently the case in some advanced countries.We are convinced that a State-based paradigm, as we suggest, will permit the severe imbalance to be redressed. Likewise, it is key to significantly reducing poverty in the world. Finally, what is required of us in terms of the environment? Climate change is the central and defining challenge of today’s world. This is the wall that separates current and future generations from a prosperous future. Our efforts in all other areas will prove futile if we fail to tackle this core challenge. We must preserve the life-giving ecosystem of the Earth. This, therefore, is where there is the greatest need for comprehensive international cooperation. The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) was held in June. The Conference’s decisions essentially marked the start of a new green deal that is expected to rally all stakeholders for common action. We need to move forward decisively to implement its individual elements. It is, above all, about elaborating sustainable development goals and ensuring the transfer and integration of green technologies. In the context of the follow-up to Rio+20, the formulation of a comprehensive United Nations energy agenda must be seriously considered. We believe it would contribute to an urgently needed comprehensive approach to addressing the interrelated issues of climate change, energy and food security. The United Nations is the natural place for the implementation of all the ideas articulated above. No other international body possesses such universal legitimacy. Let us therefore, at last, empower the United Nations. We are certain that the United Nations will then be able to realize with dignity the vision set forth in San Francisco so many years ago.﻿His Majesty King Mohammed VI asked me to convey his appreciation and respect, and I am pleased to read my speech at the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly. First, I would like to warmly congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić, President of the General Assembly at its sixty- seventh session, on his election. That election is a mark of esteem for the friendly country of Serbia as much as it is a recognition of the vast diplomatic experience he brings to the presidency. I also would like to commend Mr. Jeremić’s predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, on his efforts and achievements during the past year. Similarly, I would like to commend Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon for his untiring action and his keen desire to tackle crises. I applaud his initiatives aimed at enabling the United Nations to rise to the growing challenges facing our world. Sweeping changes are affecting today’s international arena. They include, in particular, a protracted global economic crisis that has various implications and consequences. There are also a growing number of hotbeds of tension, political disputes and armed conflicts, as well as complex global challenges that exceed the capabilities of individual States, such as achieving sustainable development, protecting the environment, ensuring respect for human rights and fighting against the growing scourge of international terrorism and all forms of organized crime. Given the current changes in the world, we, the States Members of the United Nations, ought to provide the Organization with the means it needs to tackle those challenges. To that end, we must expand the scope of the Organization’s actions and revitalize its approach, while preserving its principles and purposes, so as to make it an active player in ensuring effective political governance and an instrument for equitable economic governance. The Kingdom of Morocco fully backs the decision to give special importance to resolving disputes by peaceful means. My country applauds the General Assembly’s decision to make the strengtheing of the foremost principle in the Charter of the United Nations the key objective of the current session. Achieving international peace and security remains the core historic mission entrusted to the United Nations. The tens of thousands of United Nations peacekeepers serving throughout the world to protect civilians and working to bring about the right conditions for political dialogue between the concerned parties clearly attest to the vital role played by our Organization in that regard. The Kingdom of Morocco takes pride in being one of the first States to have contributed to peacekeeping operations under the United Nations banner. So far, my country has sent more than 50,000 members of the Royal Armed Forces to places around the world to serve in promoting the lofty objectives of the United Nations. Morocco will remain committed to managing crises and will support efforts to promote preventive diplomacy. The experience gained by the United Nations in conflict-affected countries points to the importance of securing smooth, systematic transition from peace restoration to peace consolidation. That requires, above all, a prompt response to the pressing needs raised by current developments and threats. Otherwise, the threat of a return to violence and partition will continue to hang over the countries and regions concerned. During the past year, the African continent has seen a serious deterioration in the situation on the continent, particularly in the Sahel and the Sahara regions, owing to criminal, terrorist and separatist activities, which now threaten the stability of the countries concerned. Our sister nation, the Republic of Mali, is confronted with a situation that threatens the country and its national unity and territorial integrity. Despite the sincere efforts exerted by countries in the region, including Morocco and the Economic Community of West African States, the contribution of the United Nations is also needed in order to achieve national consensus, overcome the political crisis and confront separatist activities in the north. Only an independent, focused effort on the part of the United Nations can help achieve those objectives. I should like, in that respect, to reiterate to our brothers in Mali Morocco’s commitment to continue to provide them with aid and active support for the success of the political process and the preservation of their country’s national unity and territorial integrity. At the same time, the Kingdom of Morocco lauds the notable progress made in several parts of Africa, especially in the sister nations of Côte d’Ivoire and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, towards the promotion of national reconciliation and a return to political normalcy. Moreover, Morocco reiterates its firm commitment to pursuing cooperation and solidarity programmes with various African sister nations, using efficient, dy!аmic approaches to South- South cooperation for the benefit of African citizens. The changes witnessed in the Arab region reflect the will of the peoples involved to build democratic societies where human rights are respected and where citizens enjoy equal opportunities and a dignified life. The peoples in the sister nations of Tunisia, Libya, Egypt and Yemen have ushered in a new era and have made great headway towards a democratic transition, despite a complex and tumultuous political environment, a fact that makes it incumbent upon the international community to provide support and assistance to those countries to deal with the constraints and difficulties that they face. It is, on the other hand, most regrettable that the Syrian people are each day paying a daily price in blood for their freedom. They yearn for the kind of democratic change that would enable each component of the Syrian population to contribute to achieving the desired change. Morocco, as the only Arab country sitting on the Security Council, has significantly contributed to mobilizing international support for the League of Arab States’ initiatives and resolutions. We call for concerted efforts and decisive action to compel the Syrian regime to put an end to the violence. We also call for a political transition process that would allow for the full spectrum of opinions to be heard, the aspirations of the Syrian people to be fulfilled, and Syria’s national unity and territorial integrity, as well as for stability in the entire region, to be ensured. At the same time, it is necessary to raise the financial resources required to meet the needs of refugees in neighbouring countries and those of internally displaced persons, as well as to ease the suffering of our Syrian brothers and put an end to their tragedy. In that regard, Morocco continues to show its solidarity by providing medical services on a daily basis to Syrian refugees in the sisterly Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. The rapid developments in the Arab region must not distract us from the fundamental, longstanding challenge of resolving the Palestinian issue. In that regard, the Kingdom of Morocco calls for the mobilization of international support to back the steps taken by the Palestinian National Authority to secure non-member State status. At the same time, my country is of the view that negotiations are the best way for the Palestinian people to regain their legitimate national rights and to set up an independent, fully viable and geographically contiguous Palestinian State, living side by side with Israel, in peace and security. I therefore look forward to seeing the international community change its approach to resolving that crisis by reconsidering its intervention mechanisms and work methods in order to ensure that direct negotiations are resumed very soon and in the best possible circumstances, under the auspices and with the commitment of the inf luential Powers. That cannot be achieved if the fait accompli policy is allowed to continue. In that regard and in my capacity as Chair of the Al-Quds Committee, I have strongly condemned the Israeli plan for the Judaization of occupied East Jerusalem, as well as the Israeli plans to wipe out the city’s spiritual and cultural identity and change its demographic and urban features. Let me reaffirm, in that regard, that there can be no peace without East Jerusalem as the capital of an independent Palestinian state. Steadfast in its belief in the importance and effectiveness of joint regional action, the Kingdom of Morocco has undertaken initiatives and bilateral contacts to inject fresh momentum into the Arab Maghreb Union. Indeed, my country believes that such a strategic, inclusive regional bloc is urgently needed; not only does it meet the legitimate aspirations of our peoples, but it is also necessitated by the security and development challenges facing the five Maghreb States. In a bid to overcome obstacles that might hinder the realization of that Maghreb ambition, the Kingdom of Morocco has contributed in a sincere, dedicated manner to negotiations aimed at finding a realistic, mutually acceptable political solution to the artificial regional dispute over the Moroccan Sahara — a solution that would guarantee the Kingdom’s national unity and territorial integrity, allow for reunification to take place, and respect the characteristics of the region’s populations. Morocco remains committed and willing to negotiate on the basis of the principles established and repeatedly reaffirmed by the Security Council, as well as the autonomy initiative, which the international community has deemed serious, realistic and credible. Morocco will also continue to cooperate constructively with the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara, on the basis of the mandate entrusted to it by the Security Council — a mandate that will not change in any way; neither in form nor substance. I cannot conclude without referring to the need for collective, effective and concerted action against all forms of extremism, hatred, xenophobia, provocation and rejection of those different from us and the undermining of their beliefs, for whatever reason and in whichever form. Given the increase in appalling acts of that kind, often with tragic consequences, I believe national efforts to tackle them must be part of a concerted international strategy that should take into account existing constructive initiatives, build on the mobilization of all United Nations bodies, be based on clear commitments, and encourage law-making and the dissemination of national and regional best practices in that area. It is up to us as Member States to provide the necessary means and to reiterate our political will to support the Organization and reform its structures and intervention mechanisms. The aim is to enhance its effectiveness in terms of achieving peace and security and promoting cooperation, while enabling it to fulfil its indispensable mission of furthering tolerance and coexistence, for the benefit of all mankind.﻿On behalf of His Majesty the Sultan and the people of Brunei Darussalam, I would like to congratulate our new President, His Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić, on his election and to wish him much success in the coming year. We also wish to express our appreciation to the outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for his dedication to the work of the Organization. We especially thank him for his efforts to encourage us all to meet successfully the considerable challenges now being posed by life in the twenty-first century. At the same time, we would also like to thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his constant willingness to apply the core values of the United Nations directly whenever he has been asked to act on our behalf. We particularly welcome the five-year Action Agenda he has set out and the common vision it offers us. At its heart, the vision is one of tolerance, respect and understanding among nations. Sadly, over the past two weeks, we have witnessed events that present a very different vision. In considering them, Brunei Darussalam has stated its unreserved condemnation of their cause. We have equally strongly advised all our people of our Government’s absolute rejection of the violence and extremism that have been their result. Here at the United Nations, we congratulate the Secretary-General on his statement about the matter. In doing so, we reaffirm our commitment to the universal values of tolerance and respect. Similarly, we uphold the institutions, structures and due processes of international affairs that this great Organization embodies. Turning now to the theme for this year’s general debate — “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means” — for me the key word is “adjustment”. I think it is well chosen. It suggests change that is carefully and gradually done. It does not invite confrontation. For us in Brunei Darussalam, it matches the main purpose of this annual meeting. We see it as an opportunity to express our satisfaction and our concern about how successfully the United Nations is managing the process of globalization that we have nationally embraced. In other words, are we satisfied with things as they are; or do we see a need for some adjustment? In answering that question, we would like to start by expressing considerable satisfaction with many aspects of the Organization’s work. The media constantly headline the supposed defects, failures and setbacks of the United Nations. But beneath all of that we observe the enormous contribution of the United Nations to the welfare of future generations. I would therefore like to express our deep satisfaction with the work of United Nations agencies and international bodies. We believe they are providing us with the opportunity to move out of nineteenth-century colonialism and twentieth-century national interests. In the spirit of our theme here, they are helping us to adjust to twenty- first century regionalism and eventually, we hope, to successful globalism. I would therefore like to suggest three particular areas we find especially important. In each, we believe that the United Nations is helping to create a world in which the people it represents can look to a better future — one of hope rather than anguish, confidence instead of fear, and trust in the place of despair. The first area is the difficult long-term work being done on sustainable development. We were impressed by the results of the Rio de Janeiro United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, which was held in June and built on 20 years of effort. Sustainable development is now far more than an academic topic; it is firmly part of the United Nations long-term development agenda. Work has moved from theory into many practical ideas, projects and activities. The second area is covered in the United Nations Development Programme’s Millennium Development Goals Report 2012. We especially noted the following statements by the Secretary-General in his foreword. The target of reducing extreme poverty by half has been reached five years ahead of the 2015 deadline. The target has been achieved on halving the proportion of people who lack dependable access to improved sources of drinking water. The conditions for more than 200 million people living in slums have been greatly improved. The primary school enrolment of girls has equalled that of boys. There is accelerating progress in reducing child and maternal mortality. We are especially encouraged by his conclusion that the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals by 2015 is challenging but possible. The third area is the sum of the ongoing efforts of United Nations agencies such as the United Nations Development Programme, UNICEF and the Food and Agriculture Organization, which are operating in almost 150 countries. Their work is both wide-ranging and specific in its emphasis upon the basic components of everyday life for the people we represent. Success in those three areas means that our children and grandchildren will live in a world where ordinary people and their families have a real chance to live together in hope and confidence. That is the reason for our satisfaction with the work of the United Nations as a global Organization. In other words, in terms of the fundamental work of the United Nations, we see no need to undertake what our theme here describes as adjustment. Rather, it is in the structure of the Organization that we see a need for some things to be adjusted. The reason appears clear to many of those of us who are small both physically and politically. The current structure appears far too often to be the deep-seated cause of the headline news I referred to. We see it as a twentieth- century structure designed to meet twentieth-century realities. It is personified in the 64 years of suffering by the ordinary people of Palestine, and in all other desperate situations in which the root causes of conflict and confrontation are still buried in the past century. Simply put, that must change. In our globalized world, we are all equally interdependent and equally responsible. But, like many other members in the Assembly, we believe that the current structure does not truly reflect those realities. As such, it needs adjusting so that ancient political fault lines are repaired. The form we hope it will increasingly take should resemble that of some regions today that operate on the basis of consensus, rather than compromise and confrontation. That is what we have accepted in our own region of South-East Asia. It is the spirit behind the present focus of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) on building a peaceful and mutually respectful community of nations, regardless of background, economic resources or national preoccupations. That is why we greatly appreciate the strong support and goodwill that is constantly shown us by our many partners from outside the region. It is also why we in Brunei Darussalam, the smallest of all Member nations, feel honoured and privileged to assume the chairmanship of ASEAN next year. That organization is an association of neighbours that have deliberately chosen to adjust their region’s previous identity. Until 45 years ago, ours was one of the most unstable regions on Earth, a confrontation point for the national interests of great Powers and a focal point of the Cold War. Now, our region has adjusted, and is determined to operate in the interests of its community of 600 million citizens. It will continue to do so not by conflict or confrontation and not by compromising national values, but by peaceful consensus. In the same way, we hope that the structure of the United Nations can be gradually and carefully adjusted.﻿We would like to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. Our world is afflicted by new political, economic and social turmoil that has disrupted the peaceful coexistence of the peoples of the world and reduced the quality of life for millions of human beings. New neocolonial wars have been launched aimed at seizing the natural resources of developing countries. The proponents of capitalism, while attempting to overcome the deep economic crisis that has affected the global financial system, have been resorting to new imperialistic strategies and overexploiting workers, including those in developing countries. The social welfare State and the social achievements attained after the Second World War are now in the process of being dismantled. The new imperialists have sought to transfer responsibility for the crisis to those born in other countries and to immigrants, whereas the current economic crisis was caused primarily by financial speculators. Social policies are gradually being reduced or eliminated. The middle class has been growing poor. Hunger, poverty and unemployment are reappearing in the developed countries and are spreading around the world. Suffering and despair are increasing. Meanwhile, Latin America and the Caribbean have managed to tackle, with relative success, the impact of those global economic and financial imbalances. The United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean reports that the economies in our region have had a significant rebound beginning in 2010, which enabled our region to mitigate the effects of the 2008 to 2009 crisis. Latin America and the Caribbean are well positioned on the world stage, thanks to the strengthening of initiatives in the area of regional integration, designed to strengthen political and economic autonomy. Therefore, the domination that the imperial Powers and their multinationals have imposed on developing countries is gradually being overcome. The Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America is a new coordination mechanism for dialogue guided by cooperation, complementarity and solidarity among sovereign nations. It represents an alternative for the liberation and independence of our countries. The Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC) and the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR) are regional spaces of multilateral cooperation aimed at strengthening the unity of Latin America and the Caribbean and are constructing a multipolar, balanced and just world in which the sovereign equality of States will prevail as well as a culture of peace in a world free of nuclear weapons and of weapons of mass destruction. CELAC and UNASUR have inspired social and human development, with equity and inclusion, and seek to eradicate poverty and overcome inequalities in the region. In Latin America and the Caribbean, we are seeing a new type of regionalism that is being promoted by diplomatic solidarity. Today, the unipolar system of imperial domination is in crisis. A pluripolar and multi-centred system has been coming into being, in which emerging countries and new regional blocs are able to contribute to the democratization of international relations. Meanwhile, the imperial Powers have been promoting, within the United Nations, a new regulatory framework enabling foreign intervention in the internal affairs of States, trying to get States to give up their sovereignty, political independence and self-determination. Those Powers have become the judges, jurors and administrators of internal conflicts in the countries of the South, resorting to interventionist initiatives that are conceived here at the United Nations and implemented through the Security Council. A new international order, truly based on the legal equality of States, is an imperative demand. Reform of the United Nations is necessary. The Security Council must become more democratic if it wishes to express the will of all nations. The General Assembly is begging for revitalization, and the Secretary-General should be elected democratically, by all Member States. International peace and security cannot be built on the basis of privileges for a few. The international financial architecture that emerged at Bretton Woods is anti-democratic. The General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council are never taken into account when decisions are made on vital economic and financial matters that affect all of humankind. Reform of the global economic and financial system must be addressed in the United Nations, and all countries should have an equal voice in the search for solutions to problems related to development. In Syria we are following the same interventionist script that was applied in Libya. Imperial Powers are fomenting ethnic, political and religious divisions between Syrians and between Syria and its neighbours. They are shamelessly supplying weapons to the rebel forces in an attempt to overthrow the Government of that Arab country. Venezuela supports the peace efforts being made by the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi. We should encourage political dialogue between Syrians, but we reject foreign intervention and the deadly policy of regime change. We support the positions of Russia, China and other countries on the issue; they demand that the Security Council respect the territorial unity and integrity of the Syrian State. The Non-Aligned Movement can play a proactive role in helping to solve that crisis. The Bolivarian Government reaffirms its support for the existence of a Palestinian State, independent and sovereign, within internationally recognized borders, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and the General Assembly. We also reiterate our support for Palestine’s admission as a State Member of the United Nations with full rights. We are concerned about the warmongering threats of the Governments of Israel and the United States against Iran. A military attack on that Persian nation would have fatal consequences for world peace. We recognize the sovereign right of the Islamic Republic of Iran to develop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. Respect for cultures and religions ensures the peaceful coexistence of the human beings who populate our planet. Within the crisis of capitalism, we have once again seen a resurgence in Western countries of racial hatred, xenophobia and hostility to other cultures and religions. The reprehensible video against the great Prophet Muhammad and Islam has naturally provoked protests among Muslim peoples. Such anti-Islamic expressions are not random; they are part of a political and ideological climate that fosters hatred against those who are different. We deplore the fact that freedom of speech is being used to offend religions and denigrate religious prophets. What are the limits of the freedom of expression? Is it an absolute freedom that allows one to besmirch people’s deepest beliefs and religious feelings? Venezuela rejects exhibitions of xenophobia against Muslims and supports dialogue between cultures and civilizations aimed at promoting peace and brotherhood among human beings. At the same time, we call for respect for the inviolability of diplomatic premises and the dignity of human life. The United States continues to maintain its criminal economic and financial blockade of the fraternal people of Cuba. Venezuela emphasizes its solidarity with the Government of the Republic of Cuba and demands an end to that unilateral coercive measure. It is ironic that a country that practices State terrorism and shelters the well-known terrorist Luís Posada Carriles includes Cuba on its list of countries that support terrorism. We demand that Cuba be removed from that arbitrary classification, whose sole purpose is to justify the economic, commercial and financial embargo against its people. Venezuela appreciates all efforts on the part of the United Nations to improve its mediation capabilities in crisis situations that could have negative consequences for international peace and stability. The United Nations should act in a neutral and impartial fashion, with a view to strengthening its ability to mediate in cases in which it is voluntarily and expressly requested to do so by the parties involved in international conflicts. The countries of Latin America and the Caribbean have very valuable experience in the use of dialogue and mediation for the settlement of disputes. The Rio Group made a major contribution in helping to end the terrible armed conflicts in Central America in recent years, and UNASUR has also helped to prevent and settle disputes in our region. Venezuela welcomes the announcement made by the President of Colombia, Mr. Juan Manuel Santos, that negotiations will begin between his Government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), with a view to achieving stable and lasting peace. Venezuela, Cuba, Chile and Norway are taking part in the dialogue process as supporters, by agreement between the Colombian authorities and FARC. The Bolivarian Government is backing peace and reconciliation for the Colombian people. Venezuela supports the Republic of Argentina’s right of sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands, the South Georgia Islands and the South Sandwich Islands, and the surrounding maritime areas. We reiterate our call to the United Kingdom to begin talks with that fraternal South American country in order to arrive at a negotiated and peaceful solution to that dispute. On Sunday, 7 October, democratic elections will be held in Venezuela to elect the President of the Republic. They will be transparent and credible, because, as former United States President Jimmy Carter said a few days ago, we have the most modern electoral system in the world. Between 1999 and 2012 we have held 14 clean national elections, a world record in political participation. We should issue a warning, here in this forum, that anti-democratic national elements, in alliance with foreign interests, are attempting to use violence in order to subvert the will of the people. The Venezuelan people are prepared, however, once again to defend their democratic and revolutionary achievements. Venezuela needs a democratic opposition. Pluralism and diversity coexist in democracy. And peace is the only path for the homeland of Simón Bolívar. President Hugo Chávez Frías is guaranteeing the continuity of our sovereign and supportive foreign policy, focused on improving Latin American and Caribbean unity, enhancing cooperation with the peoples of the South, and building a multicentric and multipolar world, without imperial hegemonies. Similarly, he is guaranteeing the continuity of a national policy based on social justice. The successes of the Bolivarian Revolution are evident. Venezuela has met the targets set by the Millennium Development Goals before 2015. The number of households in extreme poverty has fallen dramatically, from 21 per cent in 1998 to 7 per cent in 2010. Social investment in my country is among the highest in the world. Venezuela has the highest minimum wage in Latin America and the Caribbean. According to the Gini coefficient, our country is the most egalitarian in Latin America and the Caribbean. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, we are ranked tenth among the best-fed peoples in the world. We are the country with the fifth-highest percentage of university enrolment in the world. Education and health care are free. All Venezuelans, without exception, have access to those rights. Those extraordinary achievements in economic, social and cultural rights have been attained in the context of a participatory democracy, in which civil and political rights are fully respected, as never before in our country’s history. The Venezuelan people have regained their sovereignty and self-determination. A revolution for freedom, justice and equality is under way. That is the Bolivarian revolution.﻿I thank you, sir, for the opportunity to address the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh general debate. Let me start by congratulating Mr. Vuk Jeremić and the Republic of Serbia on his election to preside over the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly. We also acknowledge the contribution of the President of the Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser. South Africa fundamentally believes in the principles and purposes contained in the Charter of the United Nations, and correctly so, given our nation’s history. This year, we are proudly celebrating 100 years of our people’s self less struggle for freedom, led by the African National Congress movement. We recall with great appreciation the immense contribution of the United Nations to the creation of a free and democratic South Africa. In 1966, the General Assembly labelled apartheid a crime against humanity in resolution 2202 A (XXI), which ultimately led to the International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid, later known as the Apartheid Convention. The United Nations defined the crime of apartheid as “inhuman acts committed for the purpose of establishing and maintaining domination by one racial group of persons over any other racial group of persons and systematically oppressing them” (resolution 3068 (XXVIII), annex, article II). The Apartheid Convention was adopted by the General Assembly on 30 November 1973 and set the tone for vociferous action against apartheid around the world. Let me repeat the words our leader and international icon, President Nelson Mandela, uttered in his very first address to the General Assembly, in 1994, the first by a democratically elected leader and Head of State of our country. He said, “The millions of our people say ‘Thank you’ and ‘Thank you again, because the respect for your own dignity as human beings inspired you to act to ensure the restoration of our dignity as well.’” (A/49/PV.14, p.7) The theme of this session is most appropriate as it takes us back to the basics — to the founding principles of the United Nations. The founders intended the United Nations to be the foremost multilateral forum entrusted with bringing hope, peace and order to the world. Indeed, the United Nations enjoys universal membership and is at the centre of global governance and multilateralism. The theme reminds us that peace is a choice. We can either choose peace as Member States or choose the path of conflict. The founders of the United Nations made that choice 67 years ago. They decided that the United Nations must lead the world to peace. It is important for the United Nations and its organs, especially the Security Council, to execute the Organization’s mandate of working for peace without fear or favour. We must not steer away from the founding objectives of the Organization. The United Nations faces immense pressure when the world sees the unprecedented loss of lives, as it now does in Africa and the Middle East. It is of concern when it appears as if the United Nations were unable to act and assist, and when it comes across as paralysed in certain instances, due to the actions of some Member States. We have seen a divided Security Council unable to muster the collective courage to say “no more” to warring parties in the interest of peace. That brings to the fore the need to continue and deepen the reform of the United Nations and its organs to make it agile and nimble in addressing the contemporary challenges facing humanity. The debate on the reform of the United Nations and its organs, in particular the Security Council, has been going on for the past 18 years. However, there has been no significant movement forward. I would like to focus in particular on the Security Council. Given its mandate, the Council has to be legitimate, democratic and transparent. Its current composition has a propensity for deadlock and paralysis even in the face of crisis. It remains unrepresentative and undemocratic in both its composition and decision-making. We would like to see a more meaningful representation of Africa in the Security Council. About 70 per cent of the Council’s agenda is taken up by issues from the African continent. The Security Council has to be expanded in both categories, with at least two seats for Africa in the permanent category and five in the non-permanent category. In addition to seats for the continent in the composition of the Council, the United Nations should also fully recognize and appreciate the role of regional organizations working with the United Nations in conflict management and resolution. In that regard, we urge closer collaboration with the African Union (AU) peace and security mechanisms, especially given the progress being made by the AU in conflict resolution and peacebuilding in some parts of the continent since its formation 10 years ago. Therefore, cognizance should be taken of Chapter VIII of the Charter, in particular when dealing with African issues.That is why South Africa piloted resolution 2033 (2012) during our rotating presidency of the Security Council in January. Currently, the AU continues to address one of the longest outstanding conflicts on the continent through one of its mechanisms, the African Union High-level Implementation Panel on the Sudan. Together, as the international community, we recently celebrated the creation of the State of South Sudan. We wish to congratulate the Somalis and their leadership on choosing the path of peace, democracy and prosperity. The international community and the United Nations must continue to give the people of Somalia all the necessary support. Africa is indeed making progress and, with United Nations support, that could go further. To promote the peaceful settlement of disputes, we also wish to emphasize that the Security Council should carry out its Charter mandate within the confines of international law. Any Member State or international body that implements Council resolutions should be accountable to the Council, so as to ensure that we avoid the abuse of internationally agreed principles such as the responsibility to protect and the protection of civilians. Those principles must not be used, amongst other things, to justify the notion of regime change. They exist to prevent mass atrocities, war crimes, genocide and ethnic cleansing.We should continue the debate on them in order to develop norms and standards for accountability when actions are taken. It is also of critical importance for the United Nations to closely guard its impartiality, independence and objectivity and not allow itself to be dragged into a conflict to take sides with any party under the guise of protecting civilians. The situation in the Middle East, in particular the Palestine-Israeli question, continues to be of concern to us. The United Nations should play a central and decisive role in efforts to resolve the long-standing conflict in that region. Any act of aggression or violations of international law should be condemned unequivocally by the United Nations at all times. As the United Nations, we cannot be seen to be strong in condemning some acts while being soft on others. As South Africa, we remain committed to the two-State solution based on the 1967 borders, with Palestine and Israel coexisting side by side in peace. Let me also emphasize that South Africa fully supports the application by Palestine for full membership of the United Nations. It is unacceptable that, even today, Palestine remains outside the membership of the United Nations. We trust that that matter will soon be positively concluded. In further promotion of the peaceful resolution of disputes, we believe that the sovereign right of States to nuclear energy for peaceful and civilian use should be respected in accordance with international law. We have taken note that the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency has been able to draw the conclusion that all declared nuclear material in Iran is used for peaceful activities. Clarification of the nature of undeclared materials will enable the international community to have full confidence in the exclusively peaceful nature of Iran’s nuclear programme. South Africa therefore encourages Iran to continue its cooperation with the Agency. We should also remember that so long as some States are allowed to operate outside internationally agreed norms, such as those of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, it will be difficult to expect others to operate within them. South Africa supports the long-standing call for a nuclear-free zone in the Middle East. In that regard, the peaceful resolution of the Iranian nuclear issue is very important. Let me use this opportunity to reiterate our support for the ongoing struggle for self-determination by the people of Western Sahara. We urge the international community to support their quest for freedom, human rights and dignity. We also reiterate our call for the lifting of the economic and financial embargo against the people of Cuba in order to help the Cuban people to gain their economic freedom. Poverty, underdevelopment, lack of opportunities and competition for scarce resources contribute to some of the conflicts in the developing world, including Africa. Therefore, the promotion of sustainable development and the fight against poverty cannot be divorced from the quest for peace. In 2015, the United Nations will be 70 years old and will also reach the target year for the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). World leaders committed themselves to eradicating extreme poverty, facilitating universal primary education, attaining gender equality, improving maternal and child health, reducing the burden of disease primarily by combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, protecting the environment, and mobilizing global partnerships for development by 2015. The Heads of State also committed themselves to promoting gender equality and the empowerment of women as effective ways to combat poverty, hunger and disease and to stimulate truly sustainable development. We urge the United Nations to continue promoting the achievement of the MDGs and other instruments whose tenets advance the human rights of women. We are concerned that sub-Saharan Africa is unlikely to meet the targets for the MDGs. Awareness of that possibility should not make us give up; in the next three years, we must accelerate the implementation of the MDGs. We appeal to all who have made financial commitments to Africa for the achievement of the MDGs not to renege on those commitments. We would like to express our appreciation to those development partners that continue to stick to their 0.7 per cent official development assistance commitment despite their financial difficulties at the domestic level. We support the Secretary-General’s High-level Panel of Eminent Persons to focus on the acceleration of the implementation of the MDGs, and would urge that much of its focus be on assisting Africa in meeting all its targets. However, we wish to caution against prejudging the review outcome and prematurely setting in motion processes that would undermine the ideals of the MDGs. The protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms should be at the centre of our collective desire to resolve international disputes by peaceful means. Racism and racial discrimination continue to be an affront to the very basic founding principles of the United Nations and must be fought relentlessly. We should shun any idea in any part of the world that seems to suggest that there is a superior race or human being on the basis of skin colour. The danger of such ideas is still fresh in our collective memory. We have learned from the evils of colonialism, two World Wars and the system of apartheid. We should all renew our commitment to continue to build on the solid foundation laid by the Durban Declaration and the Plan of Action that we adopted more than a decade ago at the end of the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance. In Durban last December, South Africa had the honour of hosting the seventeenth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the seventh session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol. Member States must ensure that agreements are implemented. In that regard, the Durban Platform offers an opportunity for progress that we must utilize to move forward. Today’s timely debate is a reminder that, ultimately, peace is a choice. Peace is achievable. The wise and brave choices we have the power to make can deliver lasting peace to every corner of the world. We are called upon at this sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly to choose peace by reforming and strengthening the United Nations so that it can play its rightful role and deliver peace, security, sustainable development and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms throughout the world. As the foremost multilateral forum bringing together all nations of the world, the United Nations is best placed to play this role. It requires our support as Member States at all times, both for our sake and for that of future generations.﻿By virtue of its historical conviction, Mexico has always been a strategic ally of the United Nations. As one of the founding Members of the United Nations, we fully share its fundamental precepts. This is the last session of the General Assembly I will attend as President of Mexico. Over the past six years, my country has taken part in many different forums to pave the way for United Nations initiatives. We have endeavoured to make it the main body for dialogue, peace and security, and for the rule of law, including, in particular, the effective exercise of international law. Today the world faces challenges that threaten the very existence and viability of humankind. The first of those is the current economic emergency and the urgent need to promote global trade and growth with strong job creation. That problem has plunged entire populations in crisis and prevented developing nations from overcoming setbacks with respect to poverty, ignorance and marginalization. When Mexico became President of the Group of 20 (G-20) in 2012, our mission was clear: to reconcile the apparently competing interests of developing and developed nations. It is no secret that at the previous meeting of the G-20, in Cannes, we were unable to make as much progress as we would have liked towards adopting measures to advance the global economy. For that reason, the Mexican Government made it a priority to build a broader consensus. We brought as many countries as possible into the process, along with representatives of the widest possible range of sectors, including unions, entrepreneurs, civil society organizations and youth, and we took their proposals to the plenary meeting of the G-20. We held many preparatory ministerial meetings over many months and managed to bring apparently divergent positions closer together. That work was critical in ensuring that the G-20 Summit in Los Cabos last June achieved significant progress. While it is true that months ahead of time there were doubts about the viability of the euro as the sole currency for many European countries, the meeting in Los Cabos solidified the Group’s commitment not only to that currency as a monetary unit but also to financial, fiscal and political unity in the eurozone. The commitments of the international financial institutions were spelled out in greater detail and broadened, in particular those of the European institutions, but also those of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Among the most significant achievements agreed at the Los Cabos G-20 Summit, I should like to mention the long-term action plan that proposes to tackle the current economic situation as well as to move forward towards the full and lasting economic recovery that we all yearn for. It is also very important that we agreed to provide the greatest contribution to the resources of the IMF in the history of the organization. More than $450 trillion was committed, and is available to help developing or developed countries facing a critical financial situation as a result of the current economic crisis. It is true that financial problems in some European countries persist. Those are problems that will take a long time to recover from. But, from our point of view, there is now more promise for a solution than there was before the G-20 meeting. The commitment on the part of the G-20 countries has been a valuable element, so much so that today the global economy is beginning to show more optimistic signs of medium-term recovery than we saw a little more than a year ago. That is why I believe that we are starting to see a turning point when it comes to economic prospects. We must all contribute to ensuring that the recovery in fact takes place through the implementation of the commitments undertaken. That should not keep us from undertaking further efforts. On the contrary, we must step up our efforts in order to overcome, once and for all, the global crisis and promote development in our societies. I would like to underscore that the Los Cabos Summit did not look only at the international crisis, and certainly not only at Europe. We also dealt with various pressing and important topics. We wanted to ensure that countries would recover growth through a sustainable approach. We included several other items of extreme importance on the agenda, including green growth — to which I will refer later — food security for our peoples and financial inclusion for the poorest. In that regard, approximately 3 billion adults in the world do not have access to financial services. That is a clear obstacle to justice, but also to the efficiency and growth of our economies. That is why we in Mexico have expanded people’s access to financial services. Today, banks offer simplified requirements for opening accounts. We are establishing a completely new bank that functions through the use of cell phones, which 80 per cent of the population own. We are offering, through bank intermediaries, financial services in the most remote places. Not only has my Government been introducing programmes to promote justice and fight poverty, but the majority of the support that we give to the poorest sectors of the population today is done through a financial inclusion effort. Our Opportunities Programme is an innovative financial transaction programme for 6.5 million families, or over a quarter of the total population of Mexico, including the poorest families. They receive monthly economic support to purchase food and cover basic needs as long as mothers take their children to schools and to the doctor, as that is one of the best ways of structurally breaking the cycle of poverty. That support is delivered through debit cards linked to an individual bank account, which those 6.5 million poor families have perhaps never had access to before. Food security was another other topic that we explored at the G-20 Summit. The increase in food prices around the world largely explains why, besides the political reasons that might exist in any nation, people in North Africa and many other parts of the world have, from 2010 to the present time, taken to the streets. If the poorest families devote half of their income to buying food and the price of that food increases by 10 or 20 per cent, we are talking about a net global impoverishment that is higher than those percentages. We are saying that one of the most tragic problems in the fight against poverty is preventing such enormous rises in global food prices. Concretely, we achieved agreements to promote greater investment in technology and greater public and private investment in agriculture, so that, with the same resources and the same land and water, we can produce more and better food globally. Mexico took an active part in the green revolution at the beginning of the 1970s. Now we need another green revolution to produce food. Mexico wants to be an active participant in that transformation of technology, public policy and financial cooperation that could provide food to the poorest people in the world. At the G-20 Summit, we showed that it is possible to find a solution to urgent and topical problems, as well as to long-term problems. The second challenge of the four I would like to mention today has to do with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), which the United Nations so wisely established. It is very clear that they encapsulate the yearnings of all of our peoples for a harmonious, humane and sustainable development. My country, despite the unexpected rise in global food prices and the worst global economic crisis in living memory, has made real progress in reaching the Goals. I would like to stress that Mexico is close to achieving the MDGs. Three years from the deadline, we have achieved one of the greatest aspirations of any nation, whether developed or developing, namely, universal health coverage. What does that mean? It means that today in Mexico we have doctors, medicine, treatment and hospitals for every Mexican man or woman who requires it. That will allow us to comply with the commitments taken on in the area of reducing mother and child mortality. We are also energetically tackling such problems as HIV/AIDS. In Mexico, we provide free medical care and free antiretroviral drugs to all HIV/AIDS patients, thereby contributing to overcoming that serious global challenge. Furthermore, not only have we achieved universal health coverage, but we have also provided universal coverage when it comes to primary education. Today, every boy and girl of school age — between 5 and 13 years of age — has a place in a free public school. We have also closed the gap between men and women so that they participate equally in basic education at almost every level. We have achieved important progress. We have built over 1,200 new hospitals and clinics in six years and established 140 universities. Those are new free public universities, where every year we train 113,000 engineers who are, besides enhancing their earning power, also revolutionizing the competitiveness of Mexican industry. We have also achieved progress beyond the agreed goals in terms of access to drinking water, information technologies and decent housing. Almost 650,000 mortgage credits for as many houses are provided every year in our country, especially to workers who earn less than $20 a day. All of those achievements put us on track to comply with one of the MDGs within the time frame established. Globally, Mexico is aware of the fact that progress is uneven, but that should not be a reason to abandon our efforts. We must reinforce the progress we have made and ensure that it continues. That is why Mexico would suggest that we move towards a second generation of MDGs that would be universal, measurable and adapted to distinct national realities in areas such as gender equity, environmental protection, green growth, education, food, access to water and international democratic governance. That should be a central part of the 2015 development agenda. The third challenge is that of climate change. Its impact could be irreversible, both for societies and in terms of national resources. I know that, in all of the countries represented here, there is currently either an unprecedented drought or unprecedented f looding. Here in Manhattan, less than two years ago, there was a hurricane on Fifth Avenue for the first time in history. There were also tornadoes in Maine and Massachusetts. Climate change is affecting all nations. This is a challenge that threatens to overwhelm humankind. If we do not tackle it today, the cost for each country to deal with its consequences will be significantly greater. Mexico is seeking to engage all of its capacities in prompting a sense of responsibility when it comes to the fight against global warming. That is why we have set up a special unilateral programme to fight it. We are committed to reducing our yearly carbon dioxide emissions by 50 million tons for this year. We made that commitment in 2008, and we are meeting it: by the end of the year we will have reached our goal. We are also the first country to deliver a national message in the context of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. We have delivered four messages to date, and today I will deliver Mexico’s fifth such message in that regard. I will report on how we have complied with our commitments, as well as illustrate how we have managed to uncouple Mexico’s economic growth from its greenhouse-gas emissions. In the past two decades, our emissions have increased at a rate that is 40 per cent lower than our economic growth rate. We are doing this because to challenge a false notion that we have heard expressed here at the United Nations and in every economic forum around the world. The idea seems to be that we either grow or we tackle climate change, we either put an end to poverty or we put an end to global warming. It would seem that we cannot do both at the same time, but I am here to say that we can. I would even say that we should. We have to overcome the false dichotomy that exists between protecting the environment and promoting economic growth, and between fighting poverty and fighting climate change. In Mexico, we are doing both at the same time. Through ProÁrbol, for instance, which is a programme that pays for environmental services, and is perhaps the largest in the world to do so, we are paying poor and indigenous communities who live in forests and jungles for the water that they give us and for the oxygen that we breathe. We are paying them not to cut down trees, to restore their water basins so that those environmental services will remain for us. With this programme, as we take care of our forests, we are also providing income to the poorest communities, who have never had income before. In the six years of the programme, we have planted 1.3 billion trees in our country. I recall a United Nations programme five years ago that aimed at planting 1 billion trees around the world. We took part in that programme enthusiastically. We have planted 1.3 billion trees in six years and designated 3.5 million hectares as protected natural areas. A promising result of that effort is that, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization, Mexico has reduced its net deforestation rate from 350,000 hectares annually in the 1990s to 150,000 between 2005 and 2010. I am sure that we will have reduced it further between 2010 and 2012. Our hope is that not only will we achieve a rate of zero this decade, but that we will reverse deforestation around the world. With respect to that challenge, working with the United Nations, we were pleased to organize the sixteenth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 16) in Cancún, Mexico. Against all predictions, COP 16 was a rather successful meeting. We reached a first ever agreement on implementing an emissions reduction scheme for deforestation and degradation, called REDD-plus, which will enable developing countries to contribute to reducing emissions while preserving and augmenting forests and jungles. The greatest riches that poor countries have are their natural capital, and developing countries do not pollute with industries that they do not have. The greatest riches are forests and jungles, and carbon emissions come from deforestation. If developing countries are given the support they need to preserve forests and jungles, we will be contributing to reducing carbon emissions and helping to raise the income of those communities. We agreed on that in Cancún at COP 16. That success also points to a possibility that was first raised in the context of the fight against global warming. We have managed to overcome the differences between developed and developing countries. We have managed to set aside the perverse game of blaming each other by saying either that the rich are to blame because they are the ones polluting, or that the poor are to blame because they are the ones emitting greenhouse gases. In this we are all responsible, and we all have to find the solution. We are all responsible for the planet that we share, which does not recognize our borders when it comes to the environment. That is why the principle of common but differentiated responsibility enabled us to reach reasonable agreements in Cancún. We set up the Green Fund to fight climate change, as proposed by Mexico. We established by consensus the clearly set threshold of an increase of no more than 2 degrees in the planet’s temperature in the long term, a commitment to reduce emissions, an institutional framework for the adaptation to climate change and mechanisms for the financing and transfer of technology. Those achievements revived multilateralism on the issue of climate change and were folowed by the successful Climate Change Conference held in Durban in 2011. The fourth challenge — and I would like the Assembly’s special attention as I address this problem, which is responsible for more violent deaths around the world than any other — is a problem that is costing thousands of young people their lives, in particular in our beloved region of Latin America and the Caribbean. I am talking about transnational organized crime, which is cutting short the lives of thousands of young people and constitutes one of the most serious global threats of our time. Criminal organizations form operational networks covering major illicit f lows not only of drugs but also of arms, money and, unacceptably, of people. They use violence to control their markets, supply and clients and to seize the income of the honest citizens of the places they dominate. In that way, they seek to control territories and co-opt Governments. They challenge the strength of States themselves and take advantage of institutional weakness or bare-faced corruption to establish power and impunity. They become entrenched in communities and control everything they can. They claim money from honest people for their work. They collect quotas from businesses and working people and control other criminal activities such as extortion, theft and kidnapping. Organized crime is one of the leading causes of death today. It is a leading engine of violence, which the United Nations has an obligation to fight. It is one of the greatest threats facing democracy in the twenty- first century. Mexico has suffered the consequences of this scourge, which, lamentably, has resulted from of years of inaction in the face of the unbridled expansion of such criminal activity. That is why protecting the families and people of Mexico from criminality has been, for my Government, not only a constitutional legal imperative but an absolute ethical and political one as well. We have fought robustly, decisively and courageously against that unacceptable threat to our peoples. We have done that based on our belief that our principal duty as a Government is to protect families. At the same time, we have promoted a truly historic transformation of the institutions charged with enforcing the law by developing new and improved police and judicial capacities in the fight for security. We require new and better capabilities that can cope with the task of defending freedom and legality. However, we regret that our efforts are not being matched in all the countries where they are needed. I would like to explicitly express my regret before the Assembly that the diplomatic conference that took place here in July failed to reach an agreement on the adoption of an arms trade treaty. Such a treaty would have laid the groundwork for controlling the irresponsible sale of powerful weapons to transnational organized criminal groups. Over the past six years, my Government has decommissioned more than 150,000 weapons that had been in the hands of criminals. That is why Mexico advocated for a treaty that would limit or ban, or at least regulate, the transfer of conventional weapons, because we know there is a risk — we know that that happens — that those weapons do not end up in the hands of good citizens who want to defend themselves; they end up in the hands of criminals. That is why such a business exists, namely, to commit horrible and unprecedented violations of international law against peoples. The trafficking of arms is only one aspect of that very complex problem. Today, we have to acknowledge an undeniable truth: the illegal drug consumption in many developed countries is killing thousands of young people in producing and transiting countries. It fuels violence that our peoples do not deserve. Drug- consuming countries have not made progress — or at least not significantly — in reducing drug consumption. There is much work to be done in that regard, both in terms of reducing demand and in preventing addiction. We need to step up our efforts to deal with this public health problem through preventive policies, fighting addiction and media and information campaigns that would make young people around the world understand that drug addiction is the slavery of the twenty-first century. It is a heavy chain choking our young people to death. In addition, we must also bear in mind the origins of the greatest power of criminal organizations. Where does it come from? It comes from the billions of dollars of economic resources financing them, which in turn f low from the drug-consuming countries. If we do not stop that avalanche of funds from consumers, organized crime will continue to undermine peace and challenge whole societies and Governments. That is why here, in this pre-eminent global forum, I would like to say with the utmost clarity that the time has come for consuming countries to ask themselves, honestly and sincerely, whether they have the will and the ability to reduce drug consumption significantly and substantially. Otherwise, if they cannot reduce that consumption, they must urgently take decisive steps at least to reduce the extraordinry f lows of money that end up in the hands of criminal organizations. I know that to date the approach taken has been well intentioned, seeking to keep drugs out of the hands of young people by pursuing the battle against drug trafficking via legal means. But there is a fundamental problem with that approach: it fuels the black market. The enormous earnings that have been made possible through that market owing to the prohibition have in turn further fuelled greater ambitions among criminals and further increased the massive f low of resources towards their organizations. That has allowed them to create powerful networks and given them an almost unlimited ability to corrupt. They are able to buy entire Governments and entire police forces, leaving societies unarmed and families defenceless, especially in the poorest countries. While it is clear that powerful countries have powerful judicial authorities and police forces, what about the poorest countries in our continents? I am talking about our countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. But what will happen in Africa or Asia, or in the very many nations that do not have the economic power to tackle such criminals? Let us grasp once and for all that the ever-growing demand for drugs gives the criminals an economic power that in some cases translates to political power sufficient to bend the will of the authorities to their own. I want to stress that all that money builds in them such overweening confidence that they abandon all scruples and commit the worst atrocities and acts of cruelty that humankind has ever seen. Drug users’ money causes the deaths of many thousands of young people in Latin America and the Caribbean as a consequence of drug trade violence. The countries that suffer most acutely the devastating effects of the situation are countries like ours that lie between the production zones in the Andes and the largest consumption market, the United States: Colombia, Venezuela, Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras, and, in the Caribbean, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Jamaica and all other countries in that path. I would like to report that in December of last year the heads of State and Government of Central America and of Mexico, Colombia and Chile met for what we called the Tuxtla cooperation mechanism and issued a very important statement, the Mérida Declaration. It proclaims the urgent need to make a tangible reduction in demand for illegal drugs in consumer nations. We also said that if that is impossible the authorities of those countries have the moral obligation to explore every possible means to eliminate the astronomical financial gains of criminals, including regulatory or market options. Some months later we convened representatives of all the countries of the hemisphere for the sixth Summit of the Americas in Cartagena, Colombia, where several Latin American leaders reiterated our concern, and countries from Canada to Chile reached an agreement to give a mandate to the Organization of American States to make a scientific analysis of all possible options to battle the scourge more effectively. We also agreed unanimously to establish a hemisphere-wide plan against transnational organized crime to foster real-time cooperation among all the hemisphere’s law enforcement agencies. Today I formally propose that the United Nations commit to making an in-depth assessment of the scale and limits of the current prohibitionist approach to drugs. That does not mean giving up the fight or ceding one inch to criminal organizations. We will never do that. But what it does mean is that countries must take responsibility, both the common responsibilities we all share and differentiated responsibilities, in accordance with each nation’s capacities.. In any case, irrespective of the regulatory framework, all nations, especially emerging ones like Mexico, must implement a coherent policy, with a three-pronged approach. The first obligation is to fight crime, not to run away from it and not to allow criminals to establish territories as if they were a State. The second is to strengthen laws and law enforcement agencies and institutions. In particular, we must purge and strengthen police forces, public prosecutors, Government ministers and judicial authorities. The third and most important is to restore the social fabric. We must increase opportunities for young people in the areas of education, health, employment and leisure. We must do it through universities, music groups, soccer teams and clinics to prevent and treat drug addiction. We must establish active and massive prevention and treatment policies for young people, including teenagers. We are already doing that in Mexico. The three-pronged approach is crucial for any democratic State, regardless of its political philosophy. Every State must fight crime, improve law enforcement institutions and create opportunities. Today I call upon all States Members of the United Nations to assume that responsibility, which so far has not measured up to the magnitude of the problem of organized crime, which, I repeat, is the main cause of violent death in the world. That is something the United Nations must look at. If the developed countries that consume ton upon ton of drugs on a daily basis cannot or do not want to reduce drug consumption, then at least they should stem the f low of money they are sending to criminals and stop the exorbitant f low of money whereby users finance the deaths of thousands of young people. If they cannot do so, I emphasize that this is the time to explore different alternatives to reduce consumption. Now is the time for the United Nations not only to take part in such an analysis but to lead in earnest a far- reaching international discussion, in order to take stock of the scale and limits of the current prohibitionist approach and to assess the brutal, unacceptable violence generated by the production, distribution, trafficking in and use of drugs. It is painful to say this, but the drug trade has made Latin America and the Caribbean the most violent region in the world. That assessment must be done with lucidity, academic rigour and global responsibility. Taking a world perspective, we must explore alternatives, specifically regulatory or market alternatives, to see what are and what are not real options that would allow all nations, working together, to put an end to the scourge that claims tens of thousands of lives in our region. As the United Nations considers and finds solutions to global problems that threaten the integrity, health and lives of millions around the world, as it deals with famine, starvation in the Horn of Africa, epidemics such as the H1N1 virus in Mexico, and as it tackles climate change, so it must also take action to stop the wave of death and suffering with which the drug trade blights the lives of our people. I respectfully urge and exhort the United Nations not only to take part in but to lead a discussion, devoid of prejudgments, that addresses the scale of the twenty-first century challenge, encouraging all of us to seek new and effective approaches to solving this dire problem. My tenure will end in a few months. I am proud that Mexico can now count on an economy that is solid, increasingly competitive and able to generate 700,000 new formal jobs annually. I can say with satisfaction that today Mexico is a stronger, more fair and more prosperous country, as our indices of human development for education, health, housing and employment show. I would also like to say that beyond tackling the four challenges I referred to earlier, as a world community we should strengthen the United Nations from the inside so that it is equipped to meet global challenges. The initial task in that area is realistic, democratic reform of the Security Council to make it more representative and maintain its capacity for action by improving its working methods and the accountability of its members. Mexico also welcomes the fact that the President proposed “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means” as the main theme for this session. It is a crucial subject for civilized coexistence and cooperation. As a country, Mexico is committed to cooperation and the settlement of disputes. We are very concerned, as we know the Assembly is also, about the weakness and, at times, the inertia of the Organization in the face of f lagrant violations of international law. The grave situation in Syria, for example, is a danger to world peace and an indignity for all of us. We condemn unreservedly the Damascus regime’s repression and the violence it has inf licted on the civilian population, which has lead to a refugee crisis in neighbouring countries. The paralysis of the Security Council in the face of such crises must drive us to renew our political will to change the Organization. Just as we have transformed and embellished the United Nations building and removed the asbestos residue that we lived with for so many years, so it is important that we renovate the Organization in order to bring it in line with the demands of the twenty-first century. We also condemn the premeditated terrorist attack on the United States Consulate in Benghazi and the assassination of the United States Ambassador and several members of his staff in Libya. I reiterate that Mexico will fully comply with the Millennium Development Goals established by this great Organization. That is evident in our human development indices for education, health, housing, employment and social security. In the area of security, we have steadfastly fought criminal groups, updated our laws and thoroughly restructured our institutions. At the same time, we have continued to consolidate a democratic culture and respect for human rights. In Mexico today we have enacted reform whereby any human right recognized in any international treaty signed by Mexico also becomes internal law for Mexican courts. I am proud to leave a Mexico that has close relations of friendship and cooperation with every nation; a Mexico that is an active participant in building a world of peace, justice, security and development. We want freedom for men and women; justice and respect for human rights in our societies; an environment that we respect and that will allow our beloved planet Earth to live forever; and democracy, without which there is no freedom or development. And, of course, we seek and desire peace on Earth, goodwill to men, and peace to all those in this Hall.﻿On behalf of my delegation, I have the honour to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, on his election. I assure him of the full support and cooperation of the delegation of Barbados during his presidency. Let me also convey my appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, for his able leadership during that session. The theme of this year’s session, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, underscores a core principle of the Charter of the United Nations. In the current global environment, where challenges to international peace and security are widespread, it is important to reaffirm the validity of that principle as one of the cornerstones on which the Organization is founded. As a small island developing State, Barbados is severely challenged by the global financial and economic crisis and the recession that has resulted from it. Moreover, climate change and other environmental challenges continue to pose significant threats to the achievements of Barbados since its independence, in November 1966. As a relatively young nation, our independence was achieved by negotiation rather than by war. We have enjoyed the benefits of stability for more than 370 years of unbroken parliamentary Government. We are a peace-loving, democratic nation, extremely proud of our political and economic stability. Our relatively peaceful situation does not mean that we are insulated or isolated from the prevailing global instability that is very evident today. Our political and social stability have facilitated the achievement of a standard of living that has led Barbados to be consistently ranked among the top 50 nations in the United Nations Development Programme’s annual Human Development Index. Such a status has been achieved as a result of the commitment of successive Governments to invest heavily in our people, particularly in education, health and other social safety nets. As a nation poor in natural resources, we have placed priority on our greatest resource, our people. A significant factor in our ability to overcome our constraints at the national level has been the tripartite social partnership comprising Government, workers’ unions and employers. The partnership grew out of an economic crisis during the early 1990s and continues to function effectively today. Those strategies have been reinforced by our commitment to observing the rule of law. We are a principled country that firmly adheres to the core values enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, including respect for the rule of the law, respect for human rights and the principle of sovereign equality. We have been classified as a middle-income developing country. In reality, we are a small island developing State, characterized by high debt, high vulnerability to external shocks, and susceptibility to the impacts of climate change and natural disasters. The global economic and environmental situation has had a disproportionate effect on our successful, but nevertheless vulnerable, economy. We bear the burden of rising food and fuel prices and a decline in foreign investment. Our efforts to address those threats have been severely undermined by international financial and cooperation mechanisms that fail to take account of the vulnerability and capacity constraints that we face Barbados and similar vulnerable countries have been graduated from grant and concessionary financing by multilateral institutions, such as the Inter-American Development Bank and the World Bank, without regard for our unique situation. There is a clear need for greater equity, fairness and transparency in the process used to determine classifications and resource allocation. The persistent use of international classification and ratings systems that are solely based on gross domestic product per capita and other narrow criteria must be expanded in scope to take into account meaningful variables such as vulnerability. In this context, we welcome the assertion by the Secretary-General that the use of per capita income to classify countries as a means of guiding development cooperation disregards the nature and multidimensional nature of development. Barbados endorses the need for the adoption of new indices and measures of development and applauds the ongoing work of bodies such as the Commonwealth and the United Nations Statistical Commission to develop new indices. There is no greater threat to the survival, viability and indeed the security of my country and other small island developing States (SIDS) than the threat posed by climate change. Science continues to warn that we are on the threshold of irreversible and potentially catastrophic changes to the global climate system. Global emissions, the main cause of human-induced climate change, are rising at their fastest rate in history, even as we bear witness to massive and accelerating ice loss from the ice sheets of Greenland and Antarctica and a doubling of the rate of sea-level rise. We are at a major turning point in the history of mankind. Are we willing to sacrifice the most vulnerable members of the international community? That is the stark choice we face. But after the islands disappear, who will be next? Inaction or inadequate action is inexcusable and morally indefensible, given the level of certainty of the scientific evidence before us and the technological and financial tools at our disposal to effect the necessary change. While some useful progress was made at the Durban Climate Change Conference in December last year, we are not close to finding a solution to the problem. Barbados welcomes the decision taken in Durban to launch negotiations on a new legally binding agreement that would take effect after 2020. However, for us a post-2020 agreement is meaningless if ambitious actions are not taken now to reduce global emissions and provide finance and technology to vulnerable developing countries. That is essential if we are to adapt to the ever-worsening impacts of climate change. The upcoming United Nations Climate Change Conference in Doha must therefore prioritize the pre-2020 actions necessary to ensure that the world is on track in 2020 to meet the below 2 degree or 1.5 degree globally agreed goals. Such actions will require clarity from developed countries on the scale of climate finance after the end of the fast-start finance period this year and a greater sense of urgency and ambition in reducing global emissions before 2020 to minimize and avoid potentially catastrophic impacts of climate change. Barbados and other small island developing States have thrown their full support behind the Secretary- General’s Sustainable Energy for All initiative. In May this year, the Government of Barbados, in collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme, hosted a High-level Conference of the small island developing States on achieving sustainable energy for all in SIDS, focused on challenges, opportunities and commitments. At that meeting the Barbados Declaration was adopted, outlining an ambitious and action-oriented agenda for achieving the goal of sustainable energy for all in SIDS. As a concrete expression of our solid determination, some 22 SIDS agreed to inscribe, in an annex to the Declaration, a spectrum of ambitious voluntary commitments to promote transformational activities in the areas of renewable energy, energy efficiency, energy access and low-carbon development. I commend the Governments of Australia, Denmark, New Zealand, Norway and the United Kingdom for pledging, in the Barbados Declaration, to support SIDS in the implementation of our ambitious commitments. We urge other development partners to join us on this journey to ensure our energy independence. For us, sustainable development is not possible without sustainable energy. Barbados shares the view of the Secretary-General that the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio +20) in Brazil this year reached a number of important milestones. In the words of the Prime Minister of Barbados, “Rio +20 will be remembered as that unique moment in time when we decided not to yield to our fears, but rather to transform this present period of global uncertainty and volatility into a major opportunity to set new agendas, which can then be developed more fully over the next few years”. Barbados welcomes the agreement at Rio to convene the third Global Conference on SIDS in 2014, some two decades after the convening of the first SIDS Conference in Barbados. The international community can be assured that Barbados will do its part to ensure the success of the Conference. During this session, the Assembly will consider a draft resolution on the sustainable development of the Caribbean Sea. Within the Caribbean we have recognized that an integrated management approach that involves all stakeholders provides us with the best option for protecting the Caribbean Sea, our most effort in the Association of Caribbean States to create the Caribbean Sea Commission. The Commission represents an oceans governance framework to promote cooperation towards effective management of the Caribbean Sea area. Barbados calls on the international community to support this initiative, including through the designation by the General Assembly of the Caribbean Sea as a special area in the context of sustainable development. Citizen security remains a major concern for Barbados. The Caribbean Community subregion has become a major transit and destination point for the trafficking of illicit drugs and firearms. As a consequence, the incidence of crime and violence continues to escalate in the region and threatens to reverse many of our economic and social gains. Developing countries like ours have been compelled to divert financial and other resources earmarked for social and economic development for use in combating this transnational scourge. The heavy toll that that takes on the populations of our region brings into sharp focus the importance of the United Nations Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. It also emphasizes the need for a strong, legally binding arms trade treaty, which sets the highest possible international standards for the transfer of conventional arms. We share the profound disappointment of many Member States at the failure of the Arms Trade Treaty Conference to reach agreement on a treaty text before its conclusion. Barbados cannot envisage an arms trade treaty that does not include small arms and light weapons, their components and ammunition. Barbados expects that, despite the setback, negotiations on the arms trade treaty will resume during this session. At the national level, we are appreciative of continuing cooperation with bilateral partners and regional and international bodies like the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). These include programmes aimed at preventing and reducing levels of violence and crime in our society. We look forward to the imminent reopening of the UNODC Office for the Caribbean subregion, which my Government has offered once again to host. It is well recognized that peace, security and development are inextricably linked and mutually reinforcing. Barbados is therefore heartened that in dealing with conflict prevention, the United Nations has moved beyond traditional preventive diplomacy. We support the pursuit of comprehensive strategies that address deep-rooted structural causes of conflict, poverty eradication and development, human rights and the rule of law, elections and the building of democratic institutions. As a family of nations, we continue to strive for the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Success has been mixed, and made more difficult by the current global financial crisis. The target implementation date of 2015 looms large, and we share international concerns that the MDGs may become casualties of the current environment. As we articulate the post-2015 development agenda, we must not lose sight of the urgency of fulfilling these goals. Let me reiterate my country’s commitment to the rule of law and our unwavering commitment to the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. I take this opportunity to speak out against the continued unilateral imposition of the economic, commercial and financial embargo against Cuba by the United States. Barbados joins the overwhelming majority of Member States in opposing this action, which has persisted for too long. This situation merits immediate resolution if the unnecessary hardship and suffering it has wrought on the Cuban people is to end. We therefore encourage constructive engagement between the two sides. Strong, functioning democracies are the foundation on which international peace, security and prosperity are built. As a democratic State with a longstanding and firm commitment to effective multilateralism, Barbados reiterates the crucial nexus between development, peace, security and human rights. The United Nations is the only global body with the unquestionable legitimacy to lead a global response to the challenges facing humanity. Recognizing this, Barbados remains steadfast in its commitment to the United Nations and all it stands for.﻿Last month, I visited a refugee camp at the border between Turkey and Syria. I met children, women and men, who told me how they had escaped the violence and suffering in their home country. They had f led the bloodshed of a regime that is using indiscriminate violence against its own people. They had f led a country where children are being tortured, women raped and innocent civilians killed. They had lost their friends, family and homes, but they had not lost hope for a better future. One of the people whom I met near the border was Medya, the 25-year-old mother of a five-year-old girl. She had f led the city of Homs eight months earlier. Now, she travels back and forth between Homs and a refugee camp in Turkey at great personal danger. She risks her life to report to the world on the situation in Syria. Her reports are broadcast on major international networks. Medya told me about the terrible events that she had witnessed. I was touched by her sorrow and impressed by her determination. Her strong desire for freedom is something to which we can all relate. Those who have struggled for freedom do not give up easily. However, it is also clear that those refugees need the support of the international community at large. They need food, shelter and security. Ultimately, they need an effective United Nations and a strong international legal order. Promoting the international legal order is enshrined in the Constitution of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. It is a mission that we share with many in this Assembly. Together with 49 other countries, we are helping to establish legal order and security in Afghanistan, for example. I want to pay tribute to the Dutch and the other men and women, soldiers and civilians, currently serving there. The Hague, a city of peace and justice, is known for its contribution to the international legal order. It is home to the International Court of Justice and the Permanent Court of Arbitration, which are both based at the Peace Palace. Next year, we will proudly celebrate its centenary. Former Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali recognized the role of the Netherlands in the international legal order by naming The Hague the legal capital of the world. We need international law to protect people, societies and nations, or, as former Secretary-General Kofi Annan recently wrote, the United Nations Charter was issued in the name of we the peoples, not we the Governments. So we need a stronger international legal order, first, to preserve peace and security; secondly, to protect freedom; and thirdly, to promote prosperity. That is the task that we face. A strong international legal order helps to preserve peace and security. To achieve that goal, we need greater unity. I regret the persistent disagreement in the Security Council. It has prevented the United Nations from taking decisive action on Syria. The world is in desperate need of a strong, united and determined Security Council. Mediation, arbitration and judicial settlement are indispensable for the peaceful settlement of conflicts. We should cherish and develop those tools, as Deputy Secretary-General Jan Eliasson has so rightly said. Better implementation of existing treaties on non-proliferation, arms control and disarmament is of paramount importance. An effective international legal order means that countries are bound by their promises. Iran must completely fulfil its International Atomic Energy Agency obligations and abide by Security Council resolutions. The burden of proof is on Iran. As I said to my Iranian colleague, Minister Salehi, earlier this week: You are the one to convince the world of the peaceful character of your nuclear programme — not us. The international agendas on nuclear, chemical and conventional weapons must lead to concrete results and new treaties. The United Nations and the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva need to do better. The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in The Hague will this year celebrate its fifteenth anniversary. It should stand ready to assist in addressing the chemical weapons problem in Syria. The Netherlands will host the next Nuclear Security Summit, in 2014, as part of our efforts to enhance security and fight nuclear terrorism. Negotiations on a robust and effective arms trade treaty should recommence as soon as possible. A stronger legal order also promotes freedom. It promotes human rights, reinforces the responsibility to protect and helps prevent atrocities. Greater freedom means equal rights for men and women alike. Women make up 50 per cent of humankind. We need the full 100 per cent of humankind. It is in every country’s own interest to make sure that women are actively involved in society, the economy and politics. They must participate in the power structures as leaders of the world. Human rights cannot be imposed from the outside. But Governments carry the responsibility for observing their international human rights obligations and commitments. There is therefore a need to communicate constantly about the obligations and commitments. The role of the Human Rights Council in promoting freedom is crucial. We need to improve the way in which it functions. Countries that aspire to join the Council should be genuinely committed to respecting human rights. I am proud to reiterate our genuine commitment and to announce the Dutch candidature for the Human Rights Council from 2015 to 2017. People should be free to live their lives in peace and security. Therefore, every State has an obligation to prevent aggression, genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. Prevention is key. But if countries cannot or will not act, the international community has a responsibility to protect. A strong international and domestic legal order promotes prosperity and, let me state it emphatically, economic growth. Trade, investment, innovation and economic development will all benefit from a stable, predictable and rules-based business climate. The economy cannot thrive in societies where human rights are violated, corruption is rampant and Government revenues are wasted. That is one of the lessons of the Arab awakening. Sustainable prosperity and sustainable economic growth depend upon a strong, legitimate and reliable legal order. For that matter, free trade agreements and a well- functioning World Trade Organization are crucial for stimulating growth. According to the World Bank, a new global trade deal would increase global welfare tremendously. A good way to promote foreign direct investment is by enhancing arbitration and conflict resolution mechanisms. The Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague has an increasingly important role to play. Protecting intellectual property rights effectively fosters innovation. We should therefore strengthen the World Intellectual Property Organization. Finally, the Millennium Development Goals need a new agenda, with bold ideas to end poverty and plans to promote sustainable development and foster economic growth. The private sector is crucial to achieving those goals, especially when it comes to unlocking the potential of small and medium-sized enterprises. To quote renowned economist Paul Collier, “We cannot make poverty history unless the countries of the bottom billion start to grow”. The United Nations is indispensable for the agenda of peace, freedom and prosperity. The widening gap between the increasing expectations we have of the United Nations, on the one hand, and of its capacity to deliver, on the other, is a cause of serious concern. Therefore, we need a more effective, efficient and coherent United Nations. The Security Council must act decisively when serious crimes are involved and international peace and security are at stake. All United Nations organizations should deliver as one. The Secretary-General’s reform proposals must be implemented. Emerging Powers rightly ask for more influence, due to new political and economic realities. The Security Council should be reformed while taking those realities into account. At the same time, the larger share of those emerging Powers in the world economy should be reflected in the relative contributions of Member States to the United Nations budget. The Members of the United Nations need to take action in five areas. First, countries should respect universal human rights without distinction. That key principle also applies to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals. Secondly, the rights of religious minorities should be guaranteed all over the world. Governments should protect religious groups against violence. Thirdly, countries should recognize the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice, as the Secretary-General has requested. Fourthly, countries should adhere to the principle of the responsibility to protect. That applies to prevention, protection and prosecution. Fifthly, countries that have not done so to date should join the International Criminal Court. That will ensure that civilians are protected and the perpetrators of atrocities are prosecuted. That takes me back to Syria. The Syrian crisis highlights the mounting challenges of the United Nations and its States Members. I applaud the active stance of the Secretary-General with regard to Syria. The Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, the World Food Programme, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and many other organizations are providing crucial assistance to the victims of the violence. I want to pay explicit tribute to the Governments of Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan for their invaluable efforts to alleviate the suffering of the thousands of refugees. In conclusion, for me, meeting Мedya, that courageous Syrian journalist and mother, has given a voice to those refugees. I hope that I will meet Medya, that 25-year-old mother of a five-year-old child, again in the near future in Homs, Syria. I want to see her live in an inclusive and prosperous Syria, where democracy and human rights replace terror and violence. It is about democracy and human rights. That is our aim. I want to see her live in a Syria where jobs and economic opportunities have replaced poverty and despair. That woman, Мedya, has already shown the courage and the will to contribute to Syria’s future. Together, we, the peoples of the United Nations, should show that same courage. Together, we must preserve peace, protect freedom and promote prosperity. Together, let us build a stronger international legal order.﻿Two years ago, during my first address before the Assembly as President of Colombia (see A/65/PV.15), I expressed my country’s aspiration to become a member of the Security Council for the period 2011-2012. We assumed the responsibility of participating in making decisions about critical situations that threaten world peace in a spirit of absolute independence and well aware of the enormous commitment required to work for international peace and security. It has been a particularly turbulent time, but one during which the aspirations of many peoples who had suffered long conflicts and armed confrontation have been furthered. Countries like Liberia, Sierra Leone and Côte d’Ivoire are now making strides towards peacebuilding and the rule of law. In Libya, a ruthless tyranny in place for more than 40 years was dismantled in a process in which the Security Council played a decisive role. My Government did not hesitate to condemn the violent repression of the civilian population justly clamouring for the exercise of their fundamental rights. That is why we joined the Council’s decisions furthering a transition towards a democracy that, although still fragile, enjoys the support of the international community as it seeks to entrench itself. There are still violent groups that want to sabotage that process by terrorist methods. I take this opportunity to condemn in the strongest terms the despicable attack perpetrated against the United States consulate in Benghazi. Extremism, terrorism and disregard for human life cannot be allowed to persist. Today, the Arab world is experiencing a fundamental political transformation, opening the way towards democracy. If the process is to last, it will require respect for people’s rights and the creation of conditions conducive to sustainable economic development. We hope that participation by citizens, especially women, will continue to increase and foster democratic systems and opportunities for development and welfare. With regard to the dire situation in Syria for more than a year and half, I must express our deep frustration with the inability of the international community to put an end to the tragedy that every day takes more and more Syrian lives. From this rostrum, we reiterate our call for an end to the attacks and for a political negotiation that will meet the legitimate aspirations of all sectors of Syrian society. Implementing Kofi Annan’s six-point plan would greatly contribute to facilitating a Syrian- led political transition. We strongly support the new Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, and wish him much success in his very complex and difficult task. As a representative of a country that is currently a member of the Security Council, I would like to brief ly turn to the matter of its reform, which has been under discussion for 20 years. Colombia believes that consensus should be our guide in developing a comprehensive approach that includes change in both the Council’s composition and its working methods so as to promote more effectively the United Nations goals of peace, well-being and humanity. In our hemisphere, one country that requires comprehensive peacebuilding is Haiti. We continue to work for Haiti. Its recovery will require our continuous support in strengthening its capacities, institutions and productivity so as to generate employment, reduce extreme poverty and promote the United Nations work for development in the country. I urge everyone to persevere in that cause. A key event for the world this year was the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20). Inspired by the Millennium Development Goals model, Colombia led the proposal to establish the sustainable development goals, which was the most important outcome of the Rio+20 process. Today, the sustainable development goals promise to be a fundamental component of the planet’s development agenda, and the Secretary-General himself has identified them as one of the five priorities of his legacy. We are therefore especially pleased that our Foreign Minister has been invited to be a member of the high-level panel on the post-2015 development agenda, which held its first meeting yesterday. This year, the sixth Summit of the Americas gathered in Colombia, with 30 Heads of State and Government from the western hemisphere in attendance. It was a fruitful gathering, which for the first time we organized simultaneously with a business summit attended by the leaders of the premier companies of the Americas. We also held a social forum that brought together people from diverse social organizations on the continents. The Summit of the Americas in Cartagena was characterized by frank and open dialogue about the most crucial issues for the region and the world. The Governments of the Americas agreed to undertake an analysis and discussion of the track record, effectiveness and future prospects of the so-called war on drugs, as well as possible alternatives to it. It is our duty to question with scientific objectivity whether we are doing the best we can or if there are better options to more effectively combating the scourge. To that end, we mandated the Organization of American States to begin an analysis and discussion, inviting other entities — the first of which would be, of course, the United Nations — to participate. That is only a first step, but it is of great importance because it is the beginning of a discussion that the world has avoided for many years. We hope that it will ultimately yield concrete results. The debate about drugs that have caused so much harm throughout the world and to my country must be frank and, most certainly, global. Similarly, in my statement before the General Assembly two years ago, I expressed my conviction that the dawning decade should be the decade of Latin America and the Caribbean — a decade that would consolidate that region of the world as a region of peace, progress and solutions for the rest of the planet. Today, we are pleased to note that our region is indeed experiencing a favourable moment with solid economies, functional democracies and no current conflict among the nations of which it is formed. Regional coordination mechanisms of relatively recent establishment, such as the Union of South American Nations and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, are evidence of the resolve of our countries and peoples to cooperate. I would like to highlight the enormous potential of the Pacific Alliance that was formalized this year among Mexico, Peru, Colombia and Chile. The Alliance is open to the participation of other States with which we seek to strengthen not only trade but also political and human ties, as well as to the nations of the immense Pacific basin. I cannot conclude without referring to the special moment that our country is currently experiencing. Against the backdrop of international turbulence, we have been successful in maintaining a healthy economy that has generated over 2 million new jobs over the course of two years, attesting to the major progress we have made in reducing poverty. We have put in place initiatives of great social impact, such as a law for victims, which is the only legislation in the world that seeks to return lands to displaced peasants and to compensate the victims of a conflict that remains ongoing; or major hydrocarbon and mining royalties reform to more fairly distribute the revenues generated by such activities, and thereby promote more effective social development. Nevertheless, our progress, which has been remarkable, has been curtailed by an absurd conflict that has now lasted half a century. Today, Colombia is suffering through the most prolonged internal armed conflict in its hemisphere, indeed perhaps one of the longest-lasting in the world — an ever-more anachronistic and inexplicable conflict. Above all, it is inexplicable in the light of the development of our democracy and of our social progress. Aware of that, and without neglecting the protection and security of the Colombian people and without ceding an inch in the fight against terrorism and crime, my Government is resolved to move forward prudently, seriously and firmly, and without repeating the mistakes of the past, by entering into conversations with the guerrilla forces in order to achieve an end to the armed conflict. After two years of exploratory contacts, we have announced to the country and to the world that a phase of talks will be initiated on a short and concrete agenda, which we hope will allow us to achieve the desired outcome. The talks will begin in Oslo during the first half of October and will continue in Havana, thanks to the goodwill of the Governments of Norway and Cuba, which will serve as guarantors. We will also have the backing of the Government of Venezuela, to which we are grateful for its valuable support, and of the Government of Chile, which will be working with us during the second phase. Today, before the General Assembly, I wish to thank the international community for the support it has expressed at outset of the talks and for its willingness to cooperate and help in any way that is necessary. We embark upon the talks with moderate optimism and in the absolute conviction that it is an opportunity that we cannot squander to achieve a peace that is good not only for Colombia but for the entire region. With regard to my statement today, a few days ago I asked the Colombian people through social media what message they wanted me to bring here to the General Assembly. Among the many messages I received, I want to share one from my compatriot Henry Rodríguez Chacón: “An entire generation wants to wake up one day to the news of a peace agreement.” That is the most heartfelt wish of the Colombian people. Aware that the process must have brief deadlines and precise terms if it is to be successful, I trust that I will be able to deliver to the Assembly next year a positive outcome of the effort, which we undertake enthusiastically with a view to ending our 50-year conflict. We do not want to talk just about peace; we want to build conditions for peace. That is what we are doing on a daily basis with the actions of our Government and now with the talks that we are initiating. Today, with great hope, we present the world with this new special moment for my country, Colombia.﻿Your presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, Sir, is a great honour for Serbia. In congratulating you on the appointment to that post, I express my belief that you will discharge such responsible duties with full commitment to respect for the values and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. I am sure that you, Mr. President, will rise to the tasks entrusted to you by all Member States that supported your appointment. The Republic of Serbia pays particular attention to strengthening cooperation within the framework of the United Nations. The Charter of the United Nations, which unites us, its purposes and principles and the international system based on it are the only foundation for the development of international relations, the promotion of human rights and the maintenance of peace and security. Those purposes cannot become obsolete. They must always remain current, and therefore require that we be resolute in our goal to join forces and efforts in order to ensure a brighter and safer future for all humanity. The world in which we live and the changes brought about by development in many areas on a daily basis make it incumbent upon us to change together and to face the numerous challenges that none of us can deal with individually. For that reason, we must always bear in mind the responsibilities vested in us as the representatives of our countries and the consequences of the decisions that we take. The challenges facing the world have been further exacerbated by the continuing global crisis having longer lasting consequences than expected. Today, more than ever before, we need cooperation and understanding in order to overcome problems and to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. We have no choice but to get to grips with problems and end the recession, which can be measured against the crisis of the 1930s, and to hope that it will not last longer than that calamity. The crisis, from banking to the balance of payments, mortgages and debts, is affecting all countries without exception. However, by far the greatest burden is borne by the most vulnerable: poor countries and countries in transition that have not even caused it. We are faced with a serious threat to international integration and to the further definition of national and supranational policies. The problem is not insoluble. The solution lies in greater responsibility, coordinated international activities and the appropriate correlation between the actions of countries and their national interests. The growing poverty in many countries and the widening gap between the rich and the poor are becoming increasingly alarming and an unwarranted and unacceptable trait of the great scientific and technological progress of the modern world. In many cases, we see sanctions and isolation exacerbating the problem. Poverty reduction is one of the Millennium Development Goals. In that context, I would like to point out the importance of support for and solidarity with underdeveloped and developing countries. We need solidarity. Be mindful that today, poverty and starvation are not only a characteristic of underdeveloped countries. The continuing global economic crisis has also highlighted the issues of poverty and a lack of food and drinking water in some developed and, until recently, wealthy countries. Those phenomena are, at the same time, a real source of serious security risks. Consequently, I take this opportunity to call upon the rich and powerful countries drawing special benefit from globalization to direct a part of their wealth towards the economic and social development of underdeveloped countries. A more equitable distribution of assets, solidarity and support to underdeveloped and developing countries should be jointly agreed upon along, with systematically planned and organized solutions. Such measures would foster implementation of the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations in the real world of today. An economy based on renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, responsible utilization of resources and socially responsible commerce would significantly contribute to reducing poverty and starvation in the world. I underline our political commitment to the idea of sustainable development and welcome the initiative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations regarding renewable energy sources for all. I hope that it, along with other provisions of the Declaration adopted at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, will be among the agenda items to which the General Assembly will pay special attention at its sixty-seventh session. I consider it our joint obligation to preserve planet Earth in a way that it deserves. The idea of a better world involves this planet that we will preserve for the next generation. We should understand that the Earth should be treated like a living organism, and we can only hope for the better if we look after it on a daily basis. Within the limits of its possibilities, Serbia will contribute to research into renewable sources of energy, devoting special attention to the education of younger generations on ways of achieving harmony among efforts in planet conservation, development and profit. Climate change is one of the problems affecting us today that we were not sufficiently aware of in the past. In the opinion of many, climate change is the direct consequence of irresponsible behaviour on the part of mankind towards nature and the immediate environment. I wish to stress our principled position that it is the collective obligation of all of us to fight the negative impact of climate change through cooperation, tireless research, the sharing of knowledge and experience and by defining and strictly applying measures designed to respond to the new climatic conditions. The survival and progress of mankind are the eternal ideals of each human community, while sustainable development is a necessary precondition to achieving those ideals. Poverty, famine and limited access to clean water pose grave threats to human health. Anything is possible for a healthy man, although he may have many problems; however a sick man has only one problem — how to get healthy. Therefore, I would like to particularly emphasize the importance of quality medical care for children and women, in particular mothers, as well as the importance of the continuing struggle against all communicable and non-communicable diseases. When it comes to the progress of humanity, the importance of education must not be ignored. I believe that investing in education is the best way to invest in future development. Furthermore, access to knowledge and education should not be the privilege of the chosen, but the standard available to all. Only when a computer and book replace a gun in the hands of young people will happier pages of human history be written. For several decades, my country has spared no effort in contributing, within its capabilities, to multinational operations mandated by the United Nations. Thousands of Serbian soldiers have been deployed in missions to all continents. Even today, under new national legislation in line with modern defence and security strategies, members of the Serbian Army and the Serbian police are taking part in the international effort to keep the peace from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Liberia and Côte d’Ivoire, to Lebanon, Cyprus and Haiti. Our active participation in the coming period will be even greater and more visible. Despite the great efforts made by nearly all countries, terrorism continues to pose a threat to international stability. That phenomenon is not only characterized by sporadic attacks, but today represents a danger to the core values of the United Nations and a threat to international peace, security and the rule of law. Terrorism is an attack against fundamental human rights, including the right to life and individual civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights. In addition, it undermines the development of countries in every sense of the word. Given the fact that all countries are vulnerable to various manifestations of terrorism, only by joining forces will we be able to fight that evil. Serbia has aligned its legislation regulating its security sector with the relevant international instruments. Through regional cooperation, my country strives to contribute to global and regional efforts aimed at countering terrorism. In that context, it is of vital importance to make progress on the adoption of a comprehensive convention on international terrorism. At the same time, Serbia has undertaken various activities to suppress organized crime, which is often linked with terrorism, as well as to fight trafficking in narcotic drugs, human beings and arms. Encouraging dialogue among various cultures and faiths is increasingly important in today’s world. The Republic of Serbia is a country of religious people, who worship God in Christian churches and cathedrals or in mosques and synagogues. I can proudly say that my country is a place where various cultures and religions have intermingled, and spiritual and material heritages have incorporated traditions and elements derived from various completely different religious and ethnic affiliations, which have continued to intermix and whose wealth will be passed on to future generations. No one should suffer or be humiliated because of their religion. Religious feelings are sacrosanct and safeguarded as fundamental human rights. No life should be lost in religiously motivated clashes. Irresponsible individuals ridicule relics that others worship, yet certain people who have been hurt have reacted inappropriately. That is why we strongly condemn attacks on innocent people, who should be especially protected. On behalf of the Serbian people, I offer our sympathies to the United States over the killing of the United States Ambassador to Libya. Serbia plays an active role in regional organizations, including the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation. That regional cooperation mechanism is based on the principles of understanding and mutual respect aimed at achieving common goals. Serbia has successfully presided over regional initiatives, including the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation, the Central European Initiative, the Migration, Asylum, Refugees Regional Initiative, the South-East European Cooperation Process and the Adriatic and Ionian Initiative. Serbia truly wishes to become a full-fledged member of the European Union (EU) and is patiently building relations of confidence and peace in a region that is burdened with the heavy legacy of the past. Serbia wishes to head for a better and more prosperous future, on an equal footing with all nations of the world. Much has been achieved so far in the implementation of reforms, the fight against crime and corruption and the harmonization of its laws with the regulations of the European Union. In that sense, Serbia has performed even better than some countries that have already become EU members. Unfortunately, despite its strong commitment to strict compliance with international law and all fundamental instruments regarding the work of the United Nations, the Republic of Serbia is now faced with a violation of certain fundamental principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations in a part of its territory. On 17 February 2008, the authorities of the self- proclaimed Republic of Kosovo unilaterally declared the independence of the territory of Serbia’s southern province. I am not a prophet, but I must say that the unilateral declaration of independence by the province of Kosovo constitutes a dangerous precedent and a long-standing threat to the stability of the region of the Western Balkans and beyond. That unilateral act also violated the bedrock principles of the Helsinki Final Act and Security Council resolution 1244 (1999). I wish to emphasize that the majority of Member States of the United Nations have refrained from recognizing the unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo, thus remaining true to the obligation to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, which is an obligation derived from the Charter. I take this opportunity to express our gratitude to those countries for their support and solidarity, as well as my hope that, in spite of any pressure and with a view to maintaining peace and stability, they will not recognize any solution that is not the outcome of negotiations and a clearly defined agreement between the Serb and the Albanian parties. Serbia is a peace-loving country that is open to the east, west, north and south and has friends all over the world. It stands ready to discuss all outstanding issues with all parties and will do its utmost to ensure that all its citizens live well, including in Kosovo and Metohija. According to our Constitution, Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia, and the territorial integrity and the sovereignty of United Nations Members form the cornerstones of key international documents. Serbia is a sovereign and independent State and a Member of the United Nations, with defined and internationally recognized borders and a part of its territory is under the administration of the family to which it belongs, the United Nations. As a Member of the United Nations, Serbia is a victim of the application of double standards. The principle of respect for territorial integrity implies the non-acceptance of bids for secession and the prevention of efforts to change the internationally recognized borders of other States. For the country I represent, peace and respect for international law come before all other interests and objectives. Political and armed violence are not nor will ever be acceptable means for achieving State interests in international affairs. Our battle against the unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija is part of the general struggle to preserve the principle of respect tor territorial integrity. Today, the struggle for the territorial integrity of Serbia is also the struggle for peace in all countries of the world and for the rule of law in international relations. Serbia is proud of having excellent and substantive relations with most countries and it is proud of its own history. As is true in all nations, some individual Serbians have made mistakes and even committed crimes. We have turned over those of our own citizens suspected of having breached international law to international justice. For that reason, we rightfully expect justice for our country and its people, who were on the side of law and justice in both World Wars. We paid a heavy price fighting fascist and totalitarian ideologies, losing almost half of our population, and we fought shoulder to shoulder with the Allies, along with whom we then founded this Organization. A community is based on justice, which implies reconciliation and trust. How is it possible that the rules of international law and justice have been violated to such an extent that, in the case of Serbs in Serbia, one can reasonably speak of discrimination? American President Dwight Eisenhower said, in a speech delivered on 31 October 1956, “There can be no peace without law and there can be no law if we were to apply one code of international conduct to those who oppose us and another for our friends.” Is it possible to have negotiations in which one party gets everything, including territory and even many of the other party’s people, and the other party gets nothing in return, except further pressure and new conditions? We are more and more frequently forced by the powerful and mighty to face the tough choice between giving up Kosovo and Metohija and membership in the European Union. What kind of a choice is that? Am I to tell our citizens that they are going to live better if they abandon their own interests? Has Serbia ever asked anyone to make such a decision? I hope that no one in this Hall will ever have to face such a choice. Serbia is seeking a lasting, sustainable and acceptable solution to all problems. It aspires to make progress towards a European future and is fully committed to a process that will result in enduring peace between Serbs and Albanians. The Republic of Serbia and myself, as its democratically elected President, are ready to participate constructively in the negotiating process, because Serbia cannot move forward without Kosovo and Metohija, and the inhabitants of Kosovo and Metohija cannot move forward without Serbia. We strongly desire that the talks be continued in good faith and with good intentions, taking into account, among other things, that it is important to carry forward European integration involving Serbia and the Western Balkans as a whole in order to ensure long-term progress and stability for the entire region. Serbia has made committments and will fulfil all obligations it has undertaken as a State in the agreements reached thus far, even though to my eye they represent essentially the wish list of the Albanian party with some concessions made by our leadership at that time under heavy pressure. At the same time, it should be understood that Serbia is not ready to recognize, and cannot nor will ever under any circumstances recognize, either explicitly or implicitly, the unilaterally declared independence of its southern province of Kosovo and Metohija. The issue of Kosovo and Metohija can be resolved and will be resolved in a peaceful manner. Serbia will enter the follow-up negotiations ready to help all citizens of Kosovo and Metohija to live a better life in democratic and secure conditions, but it will not negotiate the implementation of the independence of the so-called State of Kosovo. The situation will come to an end, even though we constantly hear that the status of Kosovo is non-negotiable and that it is not up to us to decide it. I wonder, then, what the subject matter of negotiations could be and what entity has any authority to determine it? Serbia offers a concrete proposal: direct negotiations at the highest political level. An agreement can be reached only through consensus without unilateral decisions and actions. I take this opportunity also to condemn most strongly the attempt by the so-called Republic of Kosovo to dispossess Serbs of the tangible heritage of the Serbian medieval State, the spiritual heritage of the Serbian people and the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church in the territory of the southern Serbian province of Kosovo. I can only understand the attempt to turn four monasteries of the Serbian Orthodox Church into a part of the cultural heritage of the so-called Kosovo State as an effort f lagrantly to falsify history, as historical revisionism and as an attempt to obliterate any trace of the existence of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. I am particularly concerned over the fact that, even now in the twenty-first century, such an attempt to falsify history and to steal the cultural heritage of a nation is taking place before the very eyes of the entire international community. That sets a very dangerous precedent, encouraging each and every secessionist group in the future to take over the history of the expelled people after illegally separating the territory from the State in question. In the case of Kosovo, 220,000 people were driven out of their homes. Serbia urges an investigation into the allegations contained in the report by Mr. Dick Marty, Special Rapporteur of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Some people ought to have a guilty conscious because of the fact that two years have elapsed since the publication of the report cataloguing cases of harvesting and trafficking in human organs before, during and after the events of 1999. We are simply asking for the truth. We seek to uncover the destiny of hundreds of Serbs missing from Kosovo and Metohija, who are reasonably believed to be the victims of illicit trafficking in human organs and of other crimes committed in Kosovo and Metohija. In the name of my people, I simply demand justice for the innocent victims. For the sake of the truth an investigation should be carried out, bearing in mind that Serbs were always unjustly portrayed as the sole perpetrators of crimes, and never as victims, Serbia is merely asking for the same obligations and rights for itself as for others, for the same appreciation of its interests as for those of others and for the same kind of attention to itself as to others, so as not to become unworthy of its ancestors and so as not to fail in its debt to its born and unborn children. I conclude by affirming that the Republic of Serbia will make a self less contribution to achieving the objectives of the General Assembly and its Member States. I am convinced that the accomplishment of those objectives is only possible through respect for the fundamental principles of the United Nations Charter and through an active involvement of all Members in the promotion of multilateral cooperation.﻿At the outset, let me congratulate His Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, on his election and wish him success in discharging his duties. It is my honour to pay tribute to the Secretary- General, His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his able leadership and tireless efforts in guiding the United Nations in these demanding times. The theme of this session of the General Assembly is “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. We had an opportunity to listen to the speakers at the opening of the session, who stressed the importance of preventing violence and the responsibility of all Member States, their leaders and international organizations to take any action they can to prevent and raise awareness of such horrible events. Among other issues of global concern, I would like to draw the Assembly’s attention to the horrific scenes in Syria. A civil war has been dragging on there for many months. Efforts at mediation unfortunately have failed. It shocks our conscience that we have been unable to stop the bloodshed. Sadly, we have not succeeded in protecting civilians. In my view, the situation is critical. It speaks to the urgent need to consider strengthening the preventive capacities of the United Nations, its States Members and regional organizations. Concerted efforts to avert mass atrocities are needed. Last year we celebrated the sixtieth anniversary of the entry into force of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. The Convention was the result of the tireless efforts of Mr. Raphael Lemkin, a Polish lawyer. He stalked the halls of the United Nations every day until December 1948, when the General Assembly finally adopted the Convention. Afterwards he continued his work, and his endeavours paid off in 1951, when the Convention came into force. We then waited half a century to see the first conviction of an individual for the crime of genocide. The establishment of the International Tribunals for the Former Yugoslavia and Rwanda in the 1990s was followed by the historic creation of the permanent International Criminal Court. That was another milestone in the humanization of international relations. A further encouraging development is that the United Nations system has improved its internal coordination of activities related to the prevention of genocide. The Offices of the Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide and Mass Atrocities and the Special Adviser on the Responsibility to Protect were established at that time. The Human Rights Council has helped to promote the culture of prevention. Over the past months, the Syrian tragedy has increased awareness of our responsibility to prevent and stop mass atrocities. United States President Barack Obama has established a promising atrocities prevention board and, in his remarks at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in April, made the point that national sovereignty was never a licence to slaughter your people. I hope we all share his belief that preventing genocide is an achievable goal. Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon urged in his speech at the opening of this session that we should give the responsibility to protect concept a tangible meaning. To my regret, however, we have not yet achieved a common understanding on the modalities involved. We should therefore focus and strengthen our dialogue to that end. There is room for improving the modes of collaboration between the national, regional and international levels. It will be recalled that after the Second World War more than 80 countries witnessed mass atrocities. At least 53 million innocent lives were lost. Behind those numbers were real men and women made of f lesh and blood, and also children. They had futures but were not allowed to live. Behind those numbers there are still traumatized families and the distorted creative potential of the affected societies. Bearing that in mind, we should be able to set at least basic limits on human behaviour and stop mass atrocities. I therefore urge the States Members of the United Nations, the members of the regional and subregional organizations and the United Nations system to develop a new strategy to prevent genocide and other mass atrocities. Moreover, an intergovernmental forum of like-minded countries should be formed to propose a United Nations resolution that would set a clear mandate for the preparation and adoption of an appropriate legal mechanism — a legal mechanism that would provide the responsibility to protect concept with new tools, a legal mechanism that would enforce crime prevention, a mechanism to facilitate a more rapid and effective response to acts of genocide and other mass atrocities. Slovenia stands ready to start a dialogue to that end. We are going to convene the first meeting in the following months. I am glad that we have already enlisted substantial support for the initiative during this Assembly session. The initiative originates from international civil society. The Institute for Cultural Diplomacy in Berlin has collected many thousands of supporters among international non-governmental organizations, lawyers, students, journalists and other individuals. Support is on the increase, and this is not just one isolated initiative. There are many others across the globe. We should, of course, also enhance our collaboration with a view to the prosecution of alleged perpetrators of genocide and mass atrocities, including individual States. Effective prosecution undoubtedly has a deterrent effect and contributes substantially to a culture of prevention. Moreover, a genuine culture of prevention needs to be developed globally. We should improve our understanding of the warning signs, which should trigger early action. These days we witness numerous acts of violence against diplomatic and consular missions in one part of our world. I strongly condemn such violent acts. They can never be justified. Freedom of speech is fundamental in a democracy, and a violent response has never been able to silence it. Only by strengthening intercultural dialogue can we diminish the potential for conflict. Only mutual respect can contribute to maintaining peace and security. Mr. Prosor (Israel), Vice-President, took the Chair. It was in 1946 that Raphael Lemkin asserted that our whole heritage is a product of the contributions of all nations. Each and every nation and the United Nations as a whole have an enormous responsibility, and also an opportunity, to prevent future atrocities. We cannot escape our history but let us learn from it. I fully believe that we do not want the mistakes of yesterday to be repeated tomorrow. We took over the responsibility for the world from our fathers and have an enormous responsibility to make it a better place for our children. I therefore invite all here to do so by joining in our efforts for a world free from genocide.﻿I bring the Assembly the warm greeting of “Yokwe” from the Marshall Islands. The Republic of the Marshall Islands was born first in the hearts and minds of the Marshallese people, but we also forged our nationhood under the auspices of the United Nations f lag. The United Nations is truly our second home. Our unique story, from United Nations Trust Territory to Member State, deserves ref lection by the international community, two decades after we were welcomed as a United Nations Member. The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) will be reviewed in three years’ time. The Marshall Islands is now firmly committed to making stronger progress, especially with regard to achieving full access to adequate education and decent employment and to ensuring a sustainable environment. The MDGs are not distant figures or statistics. The MDGs are in the faces of our Marshallese children; the MDGs are in our classrooms and hospitals. One of the most immediate and necessary steps is to better integrate our bilateral and regional development pathways with the MDGs, to ensure that all efforts move in the same direction and towards the same common goals. As the Asia-Pacific region rises in the global spotlight, so also must the Marshall Islands. Our national future is still within our grasp, and our future need not be so difficult if we and our partners undertake the hard actions needed to change it. Today, the Marshall Islands commits to being a key success story in the Pacific. We will move with specific actions to make firm and measurable progress towards the MDGs and towards economic independence resting on an expanded private sector, especially in regard to our primary drivers of fisheries and tourism. We simply have no other alternative but to rewrite our future. We look to the future with targets in mind instead of generalities. I have asked my Government for specific, quantifiable development goals. I have also asked my Government to list the necessary actions, to be taken by ourselves and by our partners, needed to achieve them. Today I am encouraging bilateral partners, especially our closest partners, as well as the Secretary-General and the Pacific Islands Forum and its regional agencies, to respond. Next year I hope to present the Assembly with a report not about our plight but about our progress. It is easy, and indeed rightful, to place blame on the international community, especially concerning climate change and fisheries, spheres where the open political assurances of our partners too often fall victim to their own self-interest once the negotiating doors close. Yet the ultimate burden for achieving greater national success must be on the Marshall Islands Government and the Marshallese people. However unfair multilateral outcomes may be to the smallest nations, we must and will do whatever is in our national power to assure a viable future. Nothing will stand in our way. The Marshall Islands is far from alone. Many nations in the Pacific islands region share similar challenges. Our collective Pacific progress must be a key pillar of the 2014 global conference on small island developing States, to be held in the Pacific. The next summit of the Pacific Islands Forum will be held next year in the Marshall Islands, and this meeting will reveal firm and dramatic progress not only towards basic social and environment goals, but also how a very real expansion of public-private partnership will be jump-started in the Pacific. Since 1954, Marshallese leaders have visited the United Nations to address the ongoing impact of the 67 nuclear tests conducted on our lands during our status as a United Nations Trust Territory. That is our first foreign policy issue, and it is more than a historical legacy. It is a contemporary reality for our local communities. The United Nations authorized many of those tests through two resolutions, in 1954 and 1956, which also made assurances of our basic human rights and our full and safe return to our land, while today too many Marshallese remain nuclear nomads, still unable to safely resettle. While I acknowledge the important efforts taken to date, the half-life of radioactive material remains for generations, and much more needs to be done. But today, for the first time since the trusteeship resolution of 1956, the United Nations has finally spoken. Earlier this month, Mr. Calin Georgescu, Special Rapporteur on human rights and toxic wastes, presented his report regarding the nuclear testing programme in the Marshall Islands (A/HRC/21/48/Add.1) to the Human Rights Council in Geneva. The Special Rapporteur has presented significant findings that indicate that the pain, mistrust, progress and failures of the Marshallese people over decades have a human rights dimension and that the international community must respond with more than silence. The Marshallese people have paid too heavy a price for the only instance in which the United Nations explicitly authorized the use of nuclear weapons. I urge all relevant actors — the United States and the wider international community and its agencies — to join with the Marshall Islands and the Pacific Islands Forum members in welcoming the Special Rapporteur’s specific recommendations as a way forward to ensure progress on regaining the very human rights that should never have been lost. The Special Rapporteur’s report must not be allowed to only collect dust on the shelf; it should instead be a foundation for new efforts, particularly with key international agencies. We have no more time for well-worn accusations. The Marshall Islands must not fail to advance the human rights of its own citizens. Where old solutions have not worked, we must not fail to find new ones. We are not only a small island State, but truly a large-ocean nation. Our sustainable fisheries represent a primary pathway to the very economic strength and social development I have just called for today. Yet our aspirations are too often undermined by the narrow commercial self-interests of those nations at the Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission that might otherwise seek to embrace us as close political partners. For us, our collective Pacific development is not an isolated issue bound in technical jargon. It is the very hope and economic survival of our entire nation, and indeed the whole Pacific region. We realize only a penny of true benefit for every dollar of fishing activity, and despite scientific warnings, pressure on key fish stocks has only increased, not diminished. Decades of global lip service at the United Nations to sustainable development seems to be lost on some of our fishing partners. The parties to the Nauru Agreement have become a watershed political movement, recently achieving certification of a sustainable fishery by the Marine Stewardship Council, which is perhaps the largest such fishery in the world. In the Pacific, we are already deep into advancing the very sustainable development measures agreed to at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), and we are growing our own Pacific-driven commercial brand. It remains to be seen if key distant-water fishing nations will continue to join us in forging a landmark sustainable fishery or if they will choose to be left on the sidelines. The Republic of the Marshall Islands is among the low-lying nations in the world, and sea-level-rise projections of more than a metre pose complex risks to our future statehood, risks that we are only beginning to unpack and address. Last year’s watershed agreement on the Durban Platform, prepared at the 2011 United Nations Climate Change Conference, has moved the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) into a new chapter of a single, legally binding protocol applying to all nations by 2020. It has also redoubled urgent efforts needed to close the global mitigation gap. The time for endless North- South division is now over, and the all-too-predictable finger-pointing must end. But the world can no longer wait for negotiators. We must do more than pat ourselves on the back if we are serious about reducing the risks to our future. More action is needed by all nations and all actors in all possible settings and negotiation forums. As the Marshall Islands, we have a national energy plan and UNFCCC target to cut our own emissions, boost our efficiency and pursue new technology, such as ocean thermal energy conversion, which can make us a carbon-negative nation. I ask the rest of the world, will it also meet us in increasing that ambition? Will it come soon enough? Climate adaptation poses perhaps the most complex challenges for a low-lying nation, but we must overcome them nonetheless. We cannot rely only on an uncertain architecture of global climate finance to address the very critical adaptation efforts that will be necessary for our continued survival. In the large scale — up to $100 billion a year — of the future Green Climate Fund and other efforts, our relatively modest needs can easily be overlooked. Our increasingly urgent needs on the ground can no longer be met with paper studies and disconnected pilot projects. Yet the Marshall Islands is at present heavily reliant on international assistance. We have little other means to provide for adaptation. The growing belief, however wrong, that we must finance some of our own adaptation efforts is perhaps the most compelling reason to rapidly expand our private sector. We must also create financial security through the debt for adaptation swap being pursued by the Marshall Islands and other small island nations. The United Nations cannot fail the needs of the most vulnerable nations and must better harness the efforts of all necessary actors. The Marshall Islands urges other nations to facilitate the meaningful participation of Taiwan within the United Nations system and the international community. Taiwan should be able to participate as an observer in the UNFCCC and the International Civil Aviation Organization, as it does in the World Health Assembly, and its potential for meeting the MDGs should be recognized. The international community must not fail to act, not only to address long-term threats, but also to ease the most immediate security concerns. Recent tension in the broader Pacific Rim is an important matter for the Pacific Islands region, which can grow only when there is security and stability. I urge that those issues, including that of the East China Sea, be peacefully addressed through an inclusive dialogue involving all key actors. The smallest nations in the world, many of which are in the Pacific, are beginning to play important and unique roles on the international stage. But nations such as the Marshall Islands also depend greatly on firm multilateral action. Accordingly, they must be able to rely on the United Nations and its Members for more than symbolism. It is decisive and bold leadership that are so urgently needed in this international hour.﻿I speak on behalf of Mr. Paul Biya, President of the Republic of Cameroon, who has had to remain in Cameroon owing to painful circumstances. He asked me to read the following statement. “Allow me, first of all, to warmly congratulate the President on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. The experience he brings as former head of the diplomatic corps of his country leads me to believe that he, like his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, will lead the discussions with the requisite agility and talent. I would also like to express to Mr. Al-Nasser my country’s appreciation for his action as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. “Finally, I would like thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his devotion to serving the ideals of the Organization. “This has been an active year for the Organization. We have held major meetings to discuss the important questions of the day and examined the most appropriate course of action to address them. Allow me to return to two of them. “First of all, there is Rio+20, the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, which was held in June 2012 to commemorate the twentieth anniversary of the historic Earth Summit. The meeting enabled us to define the future we want to leave our children. “I am pleased that the vision adopted at the end of the meeting recognizes the need to further incorporate at all levels of activities the economic, social and environmental aspects of sustainable development. If we want to leave a liveable world to future generations, the green economy seems the most effective way of ensuring that development meets the needs of populations while at the same time preserving the environment. “For our part, Cameroon has already begun actions in that respect. We intend to work further to preserve our natural capital and to seek low-carbon solutions, as well as to promote production and consumption patterns that are sustainable. “In our view, progress towards the green economy must be gradual and enjoy the support of the international community. In that respect, the document adopted at the end of the Rio Conference committed the international community to upholding the many obligations that had been undertaken with respect to Africa in terms of sustainable development, while ensuring, inter alia, appropriate technology transfer. The international financial institutions and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) are called upon to strengthen their activities to that end. That is a significant step forward. “The second important meeting that we should note is the thirteenth quadrennial session held by UNCTAD in Doha, Qatar. Less commented upon by the media than the Rio meeting, that session aimed to curb the excesses of globalization and to refocus it on development. Globalization, because of what it has brought to the development of trade, economic and technological progress and the rapprochement of cultures, can be considered a positive phenomenon. The fact remains, however, that because of poor management and poor regulation, it was unable to prevent economic crises and relegated problems of underdevelopment to the backburner. UNCTAD, after the Doha meeting, was reinforced in its role in terms of trade and development, which is something to be welcomed. “Since 2008, we have seen a slowdown in global economic activity. Industrialized countries, be they European Union or the United States or Japan, have, to varying degrees, been experiencing serious difficulties — slower growth or even recession, increased debt and public deficits, imbalances in foreign trade, and so on. Emerging countries themselves, which had seen high growth rates, have been experiencing a slowdown as well. As to developing countries, even if they continue to make moderate progress, they fear the effects of a crash of the global economy and a possible contagion. “A few moments ago I said that globalization, even if it does have some positive aspects, has not achieved its main objective, that is, ensuring the harmonious functioning of the global economy and global finance while taking into account the interests of all concerned parties. That relative failure has revealed an urgent need for regulation. Right now it is hard to see how and when that need can be met. “Major forums, such as the Group of 20, of which industrialized countries make up the majority, and the World Trade Organization have, for their part, discussed several times the question of the global economy and outlined solutions that could re-establish an overall balance. But it has to be said that, given the scale of the task, the lack of available resources and the difficulties that major countries themselves are having to face, the discussions have not always been followed by action. From that standpoint, the international community seems to be going through a period of doubt and concern. Every one of us is aware that urgent and large-scale action is required, but, preoccupied with our own problems, we seem to be in a state of paralysis and unable to take the decisions that need to be taken. “The obvious risk is one of a return to protectionism — a temptation that is already evident. If we believe the signs, that could only bring temporary respite and in time could exacerbate the recession. African countries, and Cameroon in particular, which have undergone a long crisis marked by declines in gross domestic product, the harsh discipline of structural adjustment plans and the worsening of social hardship, are in a good position to evaluate the consequences of a deterioration of the economy. That is why they place their hopes in a broad consultation with a view to the comprehensive regulation of economic and financial flows that would take into account the situation of the different categories of countries and provide opportunities for international solidarity to play a role. “For its part, Cameroon has drawn lessons from the current situation. Back on its feet, thanks to the sacrifices of its population and relieved of the weight of their debt by external partners, the economy of Cameroon is now focused on taking advantage of its natural resources. Well endowed by nature, my country intends to develop modern agriculture in order to consolidate its food self- sufficiency and encourage exports. Also, aware that its industrialization requires the availability of sufficient energy, we have set in motion a programme to exploit our vast hydroelectric potential. Finally, several mining projects, together with the building of adequate road transport and port infrastructure, are under way. We hope to make progress on the road to development and the improvement of the living conditions of our population. “I would now like to express my appreciation for the President’s choice of theme for the general debate, namely, ‘Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means’. That subject follows on from last year’s theme and enables us to revisit the Charter of the United Nations and to remind ourselves of the values that it promotes and that should guide our actions. “The theme recalls recalls the fundamental principles of the Organization, which are, inter alia, the maintenance of international peace and security through the adoption of effective collective measures and the settlement by peaceful means of disputes which could lead to a breakdown of peace, in accordance with the principles of justice and international law. That reminder is not without value at the present moment, when tensions persist in the Sahel, especially in Mali, when the Sudan and South Sudan struggle to normalize relations, and when Syria is ravaged by internal conflict. Those tensions highlight the risk of force being used to resolve differences. “The use of force can be justified in some cases, such as to respond to international terrorism, violations of human rights and democracy, threats to the security of persons or violations of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States. However, it is clear that, before resorting to that extreme, peaceful means must first be used to resolve disputes, so as to avoid setting off a vicious circle of violence and retaliation. Far be it from me to indulge in utopianism. There are situations when military intervention is perhaps inevitable. But it is our responsibility to reduce to the minimum the likelihood of military action by taking a maximum of precautions. In any case, clearly the preferred way to settle disputes is still through prevention and negotiation. “For the greater part of international public opinion, the United Nations embodies the noblest human values and the hope for a future in keeping with the ideals of peace, security and development, as enshrined in the United Nations Charter. Let us strive to keep that hope from being yet again betrayed.”﻿At the outset, I am pleased to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty- seventh session. I would like to commend Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for his leadership as President at the sixty-sixth session. I also wish to express our profound gratitude and appreciation to His Excellency Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his valuable efforts to achieve the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. Three years ago, a despot who ruled my country for 42 years with tyranny and oppression stood at this very rostrum and tore up a copy of the Charter, saying that he did not recognize the authority of the document. Today, I am standing on the very same rostrum to assure the Assembly of my delegation’s support and respect for the Charter. Today, I stand before the Assembly and the whole world to apologize for all the harm and the crimes committed by that despot against so many innocent people, as well as to apologize for the extortion and terrorism he inf licted on so many States. I want to assure the Organization that the Libyan people are determined to build a State that respects its neighbours, its international obligations and human rights, and that believes that genuine peace in the world will not be realized unless the conscience of every individual is brimming with peace. Libya will be a land of peace and security and a strong force for peace. I am speaking today before this international gathering to convey the greetings of the Libyan people, whose revolt on 17 February 2011 turned into a comprehensive, explosive revolution that shook the very foundations of the regime of the despot Muammar Al-Qadhafi, who declared that he would burn and destroy Libya and make it swim in a sea of blood. He killed thousands of civilians, recruited mercenaries from everywhere, assaulted peoples’ honour, ordered his militias and mercenaries to rape minors, and destroyed cities. However, our people did not kneel; they did not back down. Thousands of martyrs were lost among the wounded and missing. The price of freedom was paid in blood, lives, amputated limbs and lost youth. In this forum, on behalf of the Libyan people, I salute the United Nations system, which stood with our people, with the will of freedom against blood lust and annihilation, and adopted Security Council resolutions 1970 (2011) and 1973 (2011) to protect the innocent people in Libya from crimes against humanity and violations of human rights. I stand before the Assembly today representing the Libyan people, who are building the institutions of democracy after the fall of dictatorship. The whole world has witnessed the first free, transparent elections in Libya, when the General National Congress was elected and I was honoured to be elected as its President. The world, through the United Nations, has given us complete, genuine support for that achievement. In our revolution of freedom and in the challenge of establishing democracy, the conscience of the world was with us, both in deeds and in thoughts. Support was offered from everybody and from everywhere. Among those offering help was Ambassador Chris Stevens, a voice of reason and conscience, a man of love and a messenger of friendship, who came to Libya after the outbreak of the revolution for freedom. He touched people’s emotions in Benghazi and travelled from Tripoli to the western mountains and back and all across Libya. Chris Stevens spoke with everyone in Arabic; he always smiled and showed the utmost concern. This humane diplomat has found his place in the consciousness and emotions of the Libyan people. It was a day of sadness throughout Libya when he was assassinated, along with three of his aides. We would like to express our deepest condolences to the friendly American people for the grave loss. It was a loss for Libya as it was a loss for the United States of America. We assure the Government and the people of the United States that this tragedy will only increase our solidarity to entrench the hopes and objectives in which Ambassador Chris Stevens believed. We will defeat the schemes of the backward terrorists, who do not represent Libya or Islam. Islam is a religion of tolerance, peace and love. As President Obama said from this rostrum two days ago, “our future will be determined by people like Chris Stevens, and not by his killers” (A/67/PV.6, p.11). In that context, I would like to express my condolences to the Libyan people, particularly the people of Misrata, on the death of Imran Juma Shaban, who joined the long list of martyrs some five days ago. I would like to express our profound appreciation for the understanding shown by the United States Administration following that incident, and to assure it that my country is determined to pursue the perpetrators and bring them to justice. We will spare no effort to strengthen the necessary protection for the diplomatic and consular missions and all guests and ensure the safety of their staff and facilities. That tragic incident does not at all represent the feelings of the Libyan people, who are known for their moderation, hospitality and gratitude. Perhaps the massive demonstrations condemning that abominable crime that took place in Benghazi and other Libyan cities best represent the genuine feelings of the Libyan people and their total rejection of all forms of violence and extremism. Libya will never become an incubator for radical extremist groups and will remain a peaceful Muslim country where moderation prevails. The new Libya will be based on democracy, openness, transparency, combating corruption and empowering women and youth. The new Libya will be by, and for, one and all. Meanwhile, it would be remiss of me not to condemn the campaigns against Islam and to defame the Prophet Muhammad. Such campaigns foment hatred and aim to provoke tensions among civilizations. They go beyond the concept of freedom of expression and opinion and require that the General Assembly adopt a legal document to criminalize the defamation of all religious symbols and figures. We Muslims have an absolute belief in the unity of humankind and solidarity among all human beings. We express our support for the dialogue among religions and for cooperation, tolerance and eternal humanitarianumanitarian values and ideals. My country therefore supports all efforts carried out within the framework of the dialogue among civilizations, cultures and religions under the United Nations and relevant international organizations. Since the revolution of 17 of February 2011, Libya has witnessed many changes due to the uprising of its people against social injustice and political tyranny. It has not only achieved a change of the tyrant regime but has progressed towards a genuine democratic regime based on respect for and promotion of human rights, political pluralism and peaceful transfer of power, as well as on commitment to the principles and provisions of international law and the Charter of the United Nations. The Assembly may have followed the sequential political developments that Libya experienced during the past few months along the path to democratization. Those include the rebuilding of State institutions; the election of the General National Congress, which will, through a constituent committee, draft Libya’s permanent constitution; and the formation of the first interim Government following elections that were commended by international observers as fair, democratic and transparent. We shall work to rebuild, reorganize and reform State institutions, primarily the police, the national army and the judiciary. Various programmes and plans are being implemented towards disarming, demobilizing and reintegrating the former revolutionaries within the ministries of defense and interior and other State institutions. For the first time since independence, political parties have emerged on the political stage, as have freedom of the press and expression, unconditional freedom to demonstrate, freedom of assembly and freedom to establish civil institutions, trade unions and intellectual, political and social organizations without restrictions. That has led to free dialogue and the active participation of all segments of the people throughout the country. For four decades, the former regime f lagrantly violated human rights through torture, detention without trial, extrajudicial killing, forced disappearance and ill-treatment of citizens and violations of their dignity. The outbreak of the 17 February revolution in the form of peaceful protest was confronted by the security brigades of the former regime with bullets and brutal repression, in f lagrant violation of international humanitarian law and human rights law. The Human Rights Council decided to suspend Libya’s membership in the Council and formed an international fact-finding committee that voiced the condemnation of the international community of such violations. The Council certified violations of human rights by the regime’s forces and by some revolutionaries, which has required the new Libyan authorities to give the human rights file particular attention and to take many specific measures. Some may wonder whether the Arab Spring was worthy of support. To them I say, would it have been better for the corrupt, dictatorial regimes to continue for decades more with their practices of tyranny, oppression, injustice, arbitrary treatment, corruption, exploitation, and violations of the most basic human rights? Should they have been allowed to continue pillaging the wealth of their peoples, pushing some of the oppressed towards extremism or a certain agenda incompatible with peace and security, an agenda that promoted violence and terror to achieve its objectives? Democracy did not prevail in France a year, or even a decade, after the French Revolution. That pattern has been repeated in other States that have gained their freedom. A period of liberation was followed by stages of instability and a sometimes long and bloody civil war before those States were able to achieve stability and security and to build their democratic institutions. At the current stage of building the new Libya, we are facing extremely serious challenges that threaten national and regional security. Some are a result of illegal activities by the sons of Al-Qadhafi and certain elements of the former regime who are being sought to face justice but have unfortunately found refuge in neighbouring countries and some other countries from where they carry out criminal activities that threaten security and stability in Libya. But we in Libya also face other security threats — trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances, illegal immigration and smuggling and trafficking of weapons. As the Assembly knows, the nature and scope of such threats to national and border security require a bilateral and multilateral response that promotes and strengthens national efforts. Therefore, last March my country hosted the Regional Ministerial Conference on Border Security in the North African and Sahelian Region, which resulted in the adoption of the Tripoli plan of action. The plan establishes common mechanisms and structures for cooperation and exchange of information, consultations, experience and communications on border security. Among our national priorities is Libya’s right to restitution of moneys that were pillaged from the State treasury and secreted outside the country. Those funds have been used to finance criminal activities and operations in order to destabilize the country and threaten its national security. That has had an impact upon neighbouring countries as well. We therefore call on all our friends and on States to allow us to recover Libyan moneys, investments and property located in other countries, particularly in some countries in Africa, Latin America and Asia, where those funds have been subject to coercive measures by some Governments. In that context, we call upon all States of the world to cooperate in combating corruption and money laundering. We call upon financial institutions, particularly those located in Western countries and some island States, to shoulder their responsibilities and not accept suspicious funds, particularly from Third World dictators who are bleeding the wealth of their peoples and hiding those funds under fictitious company names. In March 2010, Global Financial Integrity issued a report estimating that the gross offshore deposits were $10 trillion. We look forward to the signing and ratification of an anti-corruption convention by 130 States. We believe that that would promote cooperation among States to combat corruption and bring about the restitution of stolen funds. I would now like to pay tribute to the great contribution made by the United Nations Support Mission in Libya, previously headed by Mr. Ian Martin, despite the many challenges and difficulties that were natural and to be expected in the transitional phase. We also welcome the appointment of Mr. Tarek Mitri as the new head of the Mission. We wish him every success and look forward to further cooperation. We are committed to providing all the necessary assistance to him and the Mission. The new Libya undertakes to respect all of its commitments contained in the international instruments and covenants on disarmament and the maintenance of international peace and security. We are fully prepared to cooperate transparently and sincerely with the international community to support efforts, both regional and international, to implement the provisions of international conventions and protocols and to create an international environment that would foster progress towards definitively eliminating weapons of mass destruction. We are also determined to review all other international instruments to which we are not yet party and take the appropriate decisions thereon as soon as the permanent constitution is adopted and a Government and parliament are elected. We condemn Israel’s measures designed to Judaize occupied lands and its violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. The international community must assume its responsibilities by taking strong, urgent measures to put an end to Israeli aggression and ensure the full protection of Palestinians. It must come up with a radical solution to the question of Palestine through a just and lasting settlement that includes Israel’s withdrawal from all occupied lands and the return of all Palestinian refugees to their homes, as well as the establishment of the independent State of Palestine with Al-Quds as its capital, in accordance with the relevant international resolutions. The suffering of the brotherly Syrian people is unimaginable. The regime in power is violently repressing its citizens, shedding their blood and attacking their dignity, and has thus lost its legitimacy. In order to put an end to such a tragedy, Libya urges the Security Council to act promptly, in accordance with the principle of the responsibility to protect, to take immediate action to end all forms of murder, violence and destruction, find a way out of the crisis through a peaceful transition of power, and fulfil the legitimate demands of the Syrian people. This can be achieved only through consensus among members of the Security Council and support for the efforts of the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi. Libya condemns the social and political injustice, harassment and killings being inf licted on the Muslim minority in Myanmar on the basis of ethnicity and religion. That is a f lagrant violation of human rights and constitutes crimes against humanity. We call on all relevant human rights institutions to immediately intervene and put an end to the tragedy. We underline the necessity of forming an international committee of inquiry to identify those responsible for such violence and killings, bring the perpetrators to justice and ensure that victims are duly compensated and refugees returned safely to their homes. States Members of the United Nations have convened every year at the General Assembly ever since the Organization was established in order to reflect on the purposes and principles set out in its Charter. We have achieved much, but many challenges remain, such as reforming the United Nations, eliminating weapons of mass destruction, reducing poverty, ignorance and disease and wars and armed conflicts, fighting terrorism and organized crime, protecting the environment, achieving sustainable development, respecting human rights, in particular the rights of women, and ensuring the rule of law and combating racism, hatred and fanaticism. Libya wishes to stress its affi nity with Africa and the importance of shifting its policies towards, and relations with, Africa and the world — which were once based on personal whims and acts of extortion — to policies and relations firmly grounded in the best interests of all peoples. The new Libya dissociates itself from the repugnant past and extends its hands in freedom and friendship to build new relationships based on mutual respect and fruitful cooperation. In conclusion, let me wish the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session full success in solving the issues on its agenda. I express the hope that a spirit of solidarity and cooperation will prevail so that we may create a better world, one blessed with security and stability.﻿Papua New Guinea congratulates Mr. Jeremić on his recent election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. Our country pledges its support to him in that role. I also commend his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for the valuable work that he has done in the past year. Papua New Guinea recently celebrated its 37 years of independence, on 16 September. Prior to that, despite various challenges, our country successfully completed its general elections in a fair and peaceful manner. Those elections culminated in the convening of our ninth National Parliament and the formation of a new Government. We thank our close friends and development partners that have assisted us in the election process, including Australia, New Zealand, Japan, South Korea, China, the United States, Great Britain, the European Union, the United Nations and the Commonwealth. As a young developing nation, we are proud of our Constitution-based and evolving democracy. While our people have subsisted on the island nation of Papua New Guinea for many centuries, our short modern history continues to be a testament to the will of our people to maintain and consolidate our burgeoning democracy in line with the rule of law. In today’s world, that is the basis on which a just and fair society is built and on which societies have been built. Papua New Guinea’s key development priorities in the next five years are contained in our Medium-Term Development Plan 2011-2015. That seeks to achieve a long-term national road map under our Vision 2050. We need to strengthen our economy for it to be more resilient to global market shocks by diversifying trade and investment and by reviewing development cooperation, ensuring that our people’s basic needs are met. Papua New Guinea is also increasing investment in our children’s future, security and success by the provision of free and quality education from the elementary to the secondary level and by further subsidizing education from Grade 12 to the tertiary level. We believe that that will help us to achieve Millennium Development Goal 2 on universal primary education, which will enhance our nation-building process. We are also rehabilitating and developing our major infrastructure, such as roads, airports, ports, schools and hospitals, as key drivers of sustainable development in our country. We are increasing support for funding to ensure the delivery of basic health-care and social services countrywide. That includes the revitalization of our institutional and human resources capacity to take the country to a higher development level, which is our national development priority. Our Government has prioritized combating corruption at all levels of society. In doing so, we have adopted the principle of zero tolerance. In that respect, our country is setting up the Independent Commission against Corruption to enhance implementation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. We believe that such legislation and policy efforts will improve good governance, resulting in the effective delivery of basic services and the provision of access to opportunities for participation in national development by all relevant stakeholders. The economy of Papua New Guinea is growing at an annual rate of 8 per cent. Our improved economic performance is underscored by political stability, sound macroeconomic management and the development of the first large liquefied natural gas project. The revenue from that project is likely to increase the growth of our economy, doubling the revenue base by 2014. We intend to share that wealth with our Pacific neighbours in the appropriate manner. In that context, a sovereign wealth fund has been set up to professionally manage the revenue from the liquefied natural gas project and other extractive industries. We plan to reinvest that revenue for the future of our country. We believe that a strengthened economy will improve our social indicators, particularly by addressing our literacy levels, high maternal and infant mortality rates, law and order enforcement, the ageing public sector workforce and the declining state of our country’s infrastructure. Papua New Guinea supports the Secretary- General’s five-year action agenda on sustainable development, enhanced human security, enhancing the core values of the international community, supporting nations in transition, and working with and for women and young people, which was launched on 25 January. Papua New Guinea continues to benefit from a strong United Nations presence, through which various development programmes have been implemented. We highly value the contribution of the United Nations in that regard. We have also been implementing the One United Nations initiative since 2006 as a self-starter country. So far, that is working exceptionally well for our country. We are also grateful that the United Nations has heeded our call and has synergized its development assistance framework 2012-2015 with our Medium- Term Development Plan. However, we can do more. We urge donor partners to abide by the principles of the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness and the Accra Agenda for Action. Through the Pacific Islands Forum, we have adapted the Cairns Compact in order to better coordinate development assistance and to ensure the effective delivery of aid. We welcome the proactive engagement of the United Nations with the Pacific region and thank the Secretary- General for his visit and ongoing commitment. We are encouraged by that and by the fact that contacts with the United Nations system and personnel will be strengthened in the Pacific Islands region. The challenge for Papua New Guinea is to ensure that the development of our natural resources is sustainable and that the benefits are effectively translated into the improved livelihoods of our people. That, in turn, will assist us in meeting our Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), especially the 22 indicators and 90 national targets that we have set ourselves. We acknowledge that it will be a challenge to attain all the MDGs by 2015, but note there has been measured progress in the eradication of extreme poverty and hunger, which is MDG 1, and the reduction of child mortality, which is MDG 4. So for our part, our country is taking full ownership of the MDGs. With the support of our development partners such as the European Union and the United Nations, Papua New Guinea is conducting a trial of the Millennium Village concept this month. We recommit ourselves to working with our international partners, including the United Nations, and we reiterate that the MDGs need to be the priority while we discuss sustainable development goals for the long term. Papua New Guinea continues to scale up its efforts to further strengthen human rights protection and advancement in the country. We are working closely with United Nations agencies and our other development partners in the furtherance of these objectives. To date, we have reported to the Human Rights Council on work done relating to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women in July 2010. We have also reported to the Human Rights Council under the universal periodic review process. Additionally, the 2012 report of the Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences (A/HRC/20/16) and the 2010 report of the Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment are being considered by our Government this year. Papua New Guinea is committed to gender empowerment and equality. We recognize women and girls as not only key national development partners but also persons whose inherent human dignity must be respected and safeguarded. This is a central pillar of our Constitution and a core value of our national development road map. A testament to the success of this measure is that more girls are enrolling in primary and upper levels of education with an increasingly high retention rate. Women are also increasingly employed, recognized and given greater responsibilities in our public and private sectors. In fact, we achieved a historical milestone this year, and one which is unprecedented in our political history, in that, for the first time, three women were elected to the national parliament. This positive trend is increasing in our country at all levels. We also recognize the critical importance of protecting our women and girls from violence and discrimination. Papua New Guinea is taking a proactive approach through education, advocacy and legislation to prevent gender-based violence. We have made violence against women and girls a crime punishable by law. Partnership with all stakeholders, including our development partners and civil society, forms an important part of the gender empowerment and equality issues in our country. In this context, we commend the funding, substantially from the Australian Government, that was announced at the margins of the Pacific Islands Forum in Rarotonga in August 2012, as well as that from other development partners, including New Zealand, the United Nations and the United States of America. Having acceded to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Papua New Guinea is now in the process of ratifying the Convention. Our country is working with our Pacific Islands Forum member States to host the Pacific Islands Forum Disability Ministers Meeting on 3 and 4 October 2012 in Port Moresby. We are also working towards setting up an independent national human rights commission and, at the same time, we are in the process of withdrawing the seven reservations on the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol. In this context, we are partnering with Australia to address human trafficking and human smuggling issues in our region. The theme that was chosen for the High-level Meeting during this session, the rule of law at the national and international levels, is timely and commendable. Papua New Guinea fully subscribes, as I have said, to the principles of the rule of law. Papua New Guinea also fully subscribes to disarmament and non-proliferation to secure a peaceful world. We urge nuclear nations to denuclearize and those thinking of going nuclear to refrain from doing so. The Pacific region remains a nuclear-free zone, and we urge other Member States that have yet to sign and ratify the Rarotonga Treaty, which prohibits nuclear weapons in the region, to do so. We remain concerned about the continued proliferation of small arms and light weapons. In this context, we call for the recent impasse on the negotiations on a global arms trade treaty to be ended as soon as possible. Papua New Guinea supports the Group of Seven Plus forum for its efforts to strengthen peacebuilding and State-building in fragile and post-conflict countries and commend Timor-Leste for their leadership. As part of our national commitment to fostering global peace and security, Papua New Guinea has commenced its contribution to the United Nations peacekeeping force and is looking to expand that contribution. We remain committed to the United Nations sustainable development agenda, especially on climate change, with respect to mitigation and adaptation. We are committed to working closely with the global community under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and subscribe to the Rio+20 outcome declaration, “The future we want” (resolution 66/288, annex). Papua New Guinea recognizes the pivotal role of the Global Green Growth Institute (GGGI) for sustainable development. As a founding member of GGGI, Papua New Guinea pledges to work together with other stakeholders to ensure the desired outcomes through the Institute. In this context, we pay tribute to the work that has been done by the Republic of Korea. In conclusion, we support the call made by the Secretary-General for the reform of the United Nations system. We also again call for the reform of the Security Council in both the permanent and the non-permanent categories of members, in order for it to reflect the geopolitical realities of today.﻿On behalf of Ukraine, I sincerely congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I wish him every success in the post and hope that all his actions bear fruit. The theme of this year’s debate, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, is always a pressing one. That imperative was enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations by its founding members, including Ukraine. I am convinced that the fundamental principle of the peaceful settlement of disputes remains today the cornerstone of the modern system of international relations. It is the underlying mission of our Organization and the immediate duty of every Member State. Today, we are closely watching the situation in Syria, which remains extremely alarming. Ukraine shares the deep concern of the international community regarding the escalation of violence in that country. We call on all relevant parties to make every effort to settle the conflict on the basis of respect for the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the universally recognized principles of international law. The people of Ukraine have never been and will never be indifferent to human suffering. We make no distinction between our grief and that of others. Last year, thanks to Ukraine’s humanitarian mission to Libya, people of many nationalities, mostly women and children, were evacuated and saved from hostilities. In referring to that case, we are speaking not just about one action but about Ukraine’s resolute intention to use its capabilities to protect civilian populations in hot spots. That is why this year, when the situation in Syria deteriorated, we immediately evacuated the first group of Ukrainian and Polish citizens who had stated their intention to return home. Let me assure the Assembly that any Ukrainian aircraft and ships available for evacuation purposes in hot spots will always be at the disposal of those in need of help, regardless of their nationality. Ukraine has approved a decision to extend humanitarian assistance using United Nations mechanisms to Syria’s internally displaced persons and refugees. I am confident that through the joint efforts of the international community we will manage to ensure the safety of the civilian population in Syria. I believe in international solidarity in that regard. Recently, on 11 September, we witnessed the tragic attack on the United States consulate in Libya. Ukraine roundly condemns any act of violence against diplomatic missions and their personnel. For many years, Ukraine has actively supported the expansion of preventive diplomacy in international relations, with, of course, the leading role played by the United Nations. Guided by that approach, Ukraine initiated a dialogue in the Human Rights Council on the prevention of human rights violations, in particular by initiating a relevant thematic resolution. Mr. Kanda (Ghana), Vice-President, took the Chair. Ensuring early conflict prevention was among the key elements stressed by Ukraine during its first membership in the Security Council as an independent State, in 2000-2001. We also are conducting relevant work in the Peacebuilding Commission. The same goal features among the priorities of Ukraine’s chairmanship of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in 2013. We intend, during our OSCE chairmanship, to make every effort to strengthen security in our region and to consolidate the democratic institutions of Member States. We will also promote the enhancement of the OSCE’s efficiency as a regional organization, in accordance with Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations. We will also underscore the need for new impetus to be given to the resolution of protracted conflicts in Europe and to address new threats and challenges to security, in particular energy security. We will strive to increase OSCE efficiency in early conflict prevention. The Ukrainian chairmanship will actively contribute to the deepening of international cooperation and dialogue so as to maintain stability, resolve crisis situations and ensure post-conflict reconstruction. We will devote special attention to negotiations on the Transdniestria conflict; Ukraine has for many years actively participated in efforts to settle that conflict. We will promote in every possible way the Nagorno Karabakh settlement process, as well as the Geneva discussions on security and stability in the Caucasus. I would like to stress that Ukraine, as a non-bloc State, cannot but be concerned with the erosion of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe. We consider that international legal document to be a cornerstone of stability on the continent and that therefore States parties should make every effort to ensure its fully fledged and efficient application. Ukraine, in the framework of its OSCE chairmanship, will therefore pay special attention to the resolution of the crisis surrounding that Treaty. Peaceful settlement and conflict prevention will be the foundation and the starting point of Ukraine’s activities if it is elected to non-permanent membership in the Security Council for 2016-2017. At the beginning of this year, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon made public a five-year Action Agenda for the Organization. We fully support the priorities identified in the agenda and consider them a road map for United Nations activities in the near future. We are currently going through a period of unprecedented change. Unfortunately, and especially in view of the world crisis, there are global tendencies towards the stagnation of economic development, growing poverty and social inequality, and increasing instability in certain States and regions. It stands to reason that the only way to effectively counteract those threats is for the international community to deploy joint efforts. In that regard, we deem it especially advisable to increase the efficiency of international cooperation among security and law- enforcement agencies, develop best practices for addressing new challenges and threats, and introduce reliable confidence-building measures. It should be noted that this year’s United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) left open a number of issues, given the close interconnection of the environmental and socioeconomic aspects of modern life. However, we view the Rio+20 Conference as an important milestone in the development of international cooperation under the auspices of the United Nations in that sphere. The outcome document of the Conference has proved the ability of countries of different political and economic weights to reach a compromise, even in today’s difficult times. We support the complex approach that has been initiated in connection with sustainable energy for all, sustainable consumption and production, the elimination of hunger, and ensuring urban infrastructure development. Ukraine welcomes the decision of the Conference to consolidate the United Nations Environment Programme with a view to a system-based management of the whole complex spectrum of environmental problems. We deeply appreciate the establishment of a high- level political forum on sustainable development and the creation of an intergovernmental working group that will chart post-2015 sustainable development goals. That theme is of special interest for Ukraine, as demonstrated by the voluntary presentation of Ukraine’s national achievements with respect to the Millennium Development Goals, which took place at the Economic and Social Council in July. I avail myself of this opportunity to assure the Assembly that participation in the sustainable development efforts of the United Nations will remain Ukraine’s unwavering priority. Global, man-made climate change represents a threat on a planetary scale. Therefore, we consider efforts to counteract that challenge to be a priority task for humankind as a whole. Let me note that Ukraine has voluntarily acceded to the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, undertaking to reduce its greenhouse-gas emissions by 20 per cent by 2020. Bearing that in mind, Ukraine will also promote discussions, in the framework of its future OSCE chairmanship, on the environmental impact of energy- related man-made activity, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources. Turning to international security problems, I should like to stress that Ukraine is deeply committed to the cause of bringing about a safer and more secure world. That commitment emanates from the national conscience of the people of Ukraine, who have experienced the scourge of war, totalitarianism and artificial famines, as well as the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the largest man-made disaster in human history. Therefore, Ukraine’s aspiration to save the world from tragedies similar to those that we have experienced stems from the very hearts of the Ukrainians people. During the more than two decades of its independence, Ukraine has been a steadfast supporter of global nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. We have voluntarily renounced the third-largest nuclear arsenal in the world; we kept our word this year and completed the removal of the last stocks of highly enriched uranium from our country. I consider those important steps, as well as the Kyiv Summit on the Safe and Innovative Use of Nuclear Energy, held last year, to be examples worthy of following. I also view in that light the joint declaration by Ukraine, Mexico and Chile — countries that have made special efforts to neutralize the risks of the exploitation of highly enriched uranium. The declaration remains open for signing. Unfortunately, the ambitious goal of the gradual complete liquidation of nuclear weapons remains unachieved. In that regard, we insist that the security guarantees for States that have renounced their nuclear stockpiles and made other strategic concessions should be reflected in internationally binding legal instruments. This year Ukraine marked the twentieth anniversary of its participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations. I am truly proud of the contribution of the sons and daughters of Ukraine — servicemen, law enforcement officers and civilian personnel who have served and continue to serve the noble ideals of peace under the United Nations f lag. During these years, over 34,000 Ukrainians have performed noble peacekeeping missions in over 20 international operations under the United Nations mandate, from Guatemala to Timor- Leste, from Croatia to Mozambique. The experience they have acquired gives Ukraine the right to speak about achievements and advantages, as well as about problematic issues in modern United Nations peacekeeping operations. The latter include the threatening situation related to air mobility and legal gaps in investigations of crimes committed against Blue Helmets. I count on the continued support of Ukraine’s initiatives aimed at resolving the current problems facing United Nations peacekeeping operations. Ukraine welcomes the successful completion of the General Assembly’s High-level Meeting on the rule of law that took place here in New York on 24 September. At the Meeting, Ukraine announced the political obligations that we will fulfil consistently. We are certain that international efforts to ensure the rule of law should remain centred around the United Nations. At the same time, relevant international organizations should continue to play an important role in that sphere. For Ukraine, such an organization would be the Council of Europe and its Venice Commission in particular. Our close cooperation with the Council and the Commission has assisted us in making steady reforms to ensure the rule of law and thereby realize our aspirations to European integration. That process is actively promoted by Ukraine’s Constitutional Assembly, a special political institution established to find a nationwide consensus on the provisions of the basic law. In the course of constructing and developing Ukraine’s Constitution, we will study and take into account best practices from other countries. I am deeply confident that global advances in each of the crucial areas I have mentioned would be impossible without a United Nations that is more efficient, viable and updated to the realities of the twenty-first century. The key here is to deepen United Nations reform, and primarily that of the Security Council. Ukraine’s position is well known. We are ready to discuss all progressive concepts of Security Council reform capable of achieving the broadest possible consensus among States Members of the United Nations. The latter invariably make allowances for the legitimate requirements of all regional groups, in particular those of Eastern Europe. Only the United Nations is up to the task of strengthening humankind to face contemporary challenges. The united will of all 193 Member States represents an overwhelming force capable of coping with the most complicated global crises. We must strengthen and preserve our unity. I believe that the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly will be conducive to that noble goal. ﻿For over a year and a half, the situation in the Middle East and North Africa has been the nerve centre of global politics. The deep changes that have swept over the region intertwine with the key problems of modern international relations and require everyone to take a comprehensive approach and to reject simplistic and ideology-driven patterns and double standards. Russia has consistently supported peoples in their aspiration to determine their destiny and to pave the way to more effective models of public governance. We believe it is particularly important to carry out those transformations in a non-violent way and without outside interference. We strongly believe that all members of the international community should be interested in making the Middle East-North Africa region peaceful, stable, democratic and free from domestic and inter-State conflicts. So far, however, there has been no progress in reaching unanimity in the efforts of outside players to create conditions for achieving that goal. Of particular concern is the deepening internal conflict in Syria. We have consistently called for consolidated efforts by the international community to compel the Government and its opponents to immediately cease the violence, come to the negotiating table and work out a compromise on the content and pace of reforms that would satisfy all Syrians and ensure the safety and rights of all ethnic and religious groups. That was the substance of the consensus recorded in the final communiqué of the Action Group for Syria (S/2012/523, annex), agreed upon in Geneva as a follow-up to the Kofi Annan plan. We call upon all members of the Action Group to fully abide by the commitments we all took on in Geneva. That is the fastest way to stop the loss of human life in Syria. We proposed a Security Council resolution endorsing the Geneva communiqué as the basis for negotiations at the beginning of the transitional period, but that proposal was blocked. Those who oppose the implementation of the Geneva communiqué bear an onerous responsibility. They insist on a ceasefire by the Government alone and encourage the opposition to intensify hostilities, in fact pushing Syria even deeper into the abyss of bloody internecine strife. The militarization of the conflict continues, with calls for open intervention. Extremist organizations including Al-Qaida have become more active in Syria. They perpetrate terrorist attacks against innocent civilians and civil infrastructure. The number of war crimes is growing, on the part of both Government forces and the opposition, as recorded in the recent report of the Human Rights Council’s commission of inquiry (A/HRC/21/50). Russia resolutely condemns any violence, wherever it comes from, and is convinced that there is still an opportunity to undertake collective action. Practical steps to overcome the crisis need to begin with a comprehensive ceasefire, the release of prisoners and hostages and the provision of additional humanitarian aid. That would create the conditions to start an inter-Syrian dialogue. We hope that Lakhdar Brahimi, Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States, will be able to bring his vast experience to bear on moving towards an agreement on such arrangements, with the support of the international community. Russia will provide its full support to promote the success of his mission. The changes taking place in the Middle East should not marginalize the Palestinian problem. The achievement of a comprehensive, just and lasting Arab- Israeli settlement, which should lead, among other results, to the establishment of an independent, viable and contiguous Palestinian State, coexisting in peace and security with Israel, would be a major contribution to the normalization of the overall regional situation. The Arab Peace Initiative fully retains its relevance, and we support the efforts of the League of Arab States to move it forward. I also wish to stress the importance of implementing the decision on convening in 2012 a conference on establishing in the Middle East a zone free of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery (see NPT/CONF/2010/50 (Vol.I)). It is clearly necessary to ensure the participation in the conference of all States in the region, and they should agree on key arrangements among themselves. In that matter, the League of Arab States should play an important role. On the whole, we support closer ties between the United Nations and regional entities. I would note that in our part of the world today a memorandum on cooperation was signed between the secretariat of the Collective Security Treaty Organization and the United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations. I am convinced that it will increase the efficiency of common efforts to ensure stability and security. All our actions should be founded solidly on the United Nations Charter, which makes no provision for the right to change regimes. It is unacceptable to impose a political system on a country and its people. Our position was clearly stated by President Vladimir Putin speaking at the Kremlin on 26 September. The entire sequence of events in the Arab world and other regions proves the futility of any such policy, which can lead to dangerous interethnic and interreligious clashes in international relations. We believe it is an obligation of all States to protect from provocations and blasphemy the religious feelings of people of any religious affiliation. At the same time, of course, there can be no justification for acts of terror, regardless of where they are committed, be they in Libya, Syria, Iraq, Yemen or anywhere else. Attacks against diplomats or United Nations personnel are absolutely unacceptable. In general, we are convinced that today, when the world is going through a transition period characterized by instability in the spheres of the economy, politics and inter-civilizational relations, it is particularly important for United Nations Member States to be able to rely on accepted rules of conduct and to agree on a joint response to the threats to global stability. We should not allow irresponsible actions dictated by expedient interests to shatter the system of international law. The world order is threatened by arbitrary interpretation of such essential principles as the non-use or threat of force, the peaceful settlement of disputes, respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States and non-interference in their domestic affairs. Those are the key principles of the United Nations Charter, which confers the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security on the Security Council. In advancing the reform of the United Nations, it is essential to preserve the capacity of the Security Council to perform those functions. Their erosion would deprive the international community of an essential mechanism for developing joint approaches to the settlement of crisis situations. It is appropriate to mention the compulsory instruments at the disposal of the United Nations. Under the United Nations Charter the imposition of sanctions falls exclusively under the jurisdiction of the Security Council. Decisions must be made on a collegial basis, with the understanding that sanctions should not lead to isolation of the State targeted for sanctions, but rather encourage it to engage in a dialogue to remove questions that the Member States may have. It is essential that sanctions should be well-measured and that they not cause any suffering to the population. In the past the Security Council has discussed the issue of the humanitarian limits of sanctions, but somehow the discussions have faded away. We believe it is important to resume them. Another issue that needs to be discussed in the Security Council is the consequences of unilateral sanctions imposed by a State or a group of States sidestepping the United Nations to advance their political goals. We have no doubt that such sanctions, especially when they are applied extraterritorially, weaken the unity of the international community and undermine the effectiveness of its efforts. For many years, the commercial, economic and financial restrictions imposed by the United States on Cuba have remained an illustration of the negative impact of unilateral sanctions. Russia, together with the overwhelming majority of members of the international community, calls for the swift lifting of the blockade, which is a relic of the Cold War. Special attention should be given to the practical enforcement of Security Council decisions regarding sanctions against non-State actors and illegal cross- border formations. In general, the events of recent years have clearly shown that unilateral action which violates international law and circumvents or distorts the decisions of the Security Council does no good. Of course, the legal norms of international affairs will be further adjusted as necessary. But these transformations should be treated with the greatest sense of responsibility and full consciousness of the serious risks involved. Consensus should be the sole route to their adoption. Violations of international law should not be portrayed as some sort of creative development. All of this is related to the debate regarding the concept of the so-called responsibility to protect. Further discussion of this concept should be held on the basis of the approach agreed on at the 2005 World Summit, which reaffirmed the need to observe the principles of the Charter of the United Nations when responding to conflicts within States. The protection of civilians is an issue far too serious to be exploited to achieve political goals. The ambiguity of the so-called responsibility- to-protect concept can be better understood in light of initiatives formulated by Brazil and several other States to move towards consensus. Let us not forget that the founders of the United Nations, in their wisdom, agreed upon and endorsed a Charter that enshrined principles for the regulation of a multipolar world order. Now that the abnormal bipolar period of the Cold War is over, and now that it has become clear to all that there is no place for monopolarity in the modern world and international affairs can only be polycentric, we have a unique chance to fully implement the original potential of that Charter. This is a difficult challenge. International relations are clearly experiencing a lack of credibility. We regard this as the main obstacle to practical progress towards the establishment of universal foundations for equal and indivisible security, whether in the Euro-Atlantic area, Asia-Pacific region or other parts of the world. Such a state of affairs clearly contradicts the concept of collective security embodied in the Charter and the deep interdependence of the modern world, where most challenges and threats are common to us all and have a cross-border dimension. Strengthening confidence and collective principles in international affairs, with the emphasis on negotiating the pursuit of compromise solutions, would help substantially reduce the level of instability and move forward in the settlement of crisis situations, not only in the Middle East, but also with respect to Iran, Afghanistan, the Korean peninsula and other situations throughout the world. The final goal of the efforts to settle a conflict is to ensure the right to life and other fundamental human rights, be they political, economic or social. The events of recent years confirm that, without lasting peace and sustainable development, it is impossible to ensure human rights. In turn, the protection of human rights should contribute to security and development, rather than serve as a pretext for illegal interference in the domestic affairs of States. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone is entitled to an international order in which their rights can be fully realized. Those who use military force and sanctions, bypassing the Charter, engage in illicit supplies of arms, or provide cover for terrorists grossly violate this right. Russia stands for the implementation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and respect for the traditional values on which human civilization is based and where all world religions converge. This is a moral foundation of modern society. It is the cement that bonds together nations and peoples. In recent years, these values have been put to the test by displays of immorality, extremism and racial intolerance. Of similar concern are the even more assertive actions of those who, citing freedom of speech, condone the glorification of the Nazis and their accomplices and desecrate the memory of the victims of the Second World War and the victors of fascism. Such actions are incompatible with the obligations of States under the Charter of the United Nations. Let me recall that the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights directly prohibits the propaganda of war and incitement of national and religious discord. This means that freedom of speech and assembly cannot be used to justify the promotion of Nazi or other radical or extremist views, in violation of the basic principles and norms of international law. Yesterday, the Human Rights Council endorsed a resolution proposed by Russia on the interrelation of human rights and traditional values. It is regrettable that a number of Western States voted against this document, which is especially relevant today. Progress towards genuine partnership in international relations is possible only on the basis of equality and mutual respect. The course of events in the world leaves no alternative for anyone but to join efforts in order to build a stable, equitable and democratic international system. It would be possible to resist this objective trend and try to preserve the old order for some time, but such resistance would cost yet more lives, suffering and destruction. Let us display our vision and, instead of looking back at the history of previous centuries, take the side of the events unfolding before us today, and answer the call for strong collective statesmanship.﻿At the outset, I express my delegation’s warmest congratulations to the President on assuming office to preside over the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I would like to record our deepest appreciation to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for his untiring efforts in steering the deliberations of the sixty-sixth session to a successful conclusion. I also wish to congratulate the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his extraordinary report (A/67/1) presented to the Assembly on Tuesday. Despite the many unprecedented challenges facing the United Nations today, we remain confident that the Secretary-General’s leadership and the resolve of the Organization and of humankind will not waver. I represent a small yet proud island nation that has long advocated for an effective international framework for the security of small States, that has vigorously campaigned for international actions to combat climate change and that has contributed to breaking the international silence on the human rights implications of climate change. I come from a nation that has successfully moved from an authoritarian system to a multiparty democratic system of governance — a historic transition achieved purely by peaceful means. That is why Maldivians show their solidarity with people everywhere in the world who struggle to replace despotism with democracy. That is why we support the ongoing democratization process in the Middle East and North Africa, and that is why we applaud Tunisia and Egypt for holding their first post-transition elections in a free and fair manner. While the democratization processes in other countries in the region are on an upward trajectory, we see violence and human rights violations in Syria. We urge the Syrian security forces and anti-Government armed groups to immediately cease all hostilities and violence. We welcome the latest findings of the United Nations commission of inquiry on the human rights situation in Syria. We strongly believe that tolerance and mutual respect should prevail among different religions and cultures to ensure that the world we live in remains peaceful and harmonious for the future of our children. The Maldives strongly condemns the recent anti-Islamic video demeaning our Prophet Muhammad — peace be upon him. Freedom of expression should not be used as an excuse to insult religions, incite hatred or provoke communal violence. While the video has provoked demonstrations around the world, the Maldives does not believe that violence is the way to respond to such low-level blasphemous acts. The Maldives has also condemned the attack on the United States Consulate in Benghazi, which took the life of the United States Ambassador to Libya. On behalf of the Maldivian people, I express my deepest condolences to the United States Government and the families of the bereaved. My delegation and I express the wishes of the Maldivian people to see the day that the Palestinian people join the United Nations as a full Member. The Maldives strongly calls on all Member States to support the true aspirations of the Palestinian people and their right to self-determination in a Palestinian State. In June we, the leaders of the world, agreed to signal our solid political commitment towards establishing sustainable development goals. We believe that those goals would further strengthen the social, economic and environmental well-being of nations. The 2015 development agenda should recognize the particular characteristics and needs of small States. It should support the creation of a stronger international architecture to achieve a sustainable future for all. Climate change remains the most important and complex developmental challenge that small States face. We face the threat of rising sea levels. We experience ocean acidification, changes in average temperature and variable precipitation. Coastal erosion is a serious problem in the Maldives, affecting more than 113 islands. An additional 120 islands need emergency water during the dry season. The Government now spends more than 27 per cent of our national budget on building our resilience to combat the effects of climate change. The Maldives reiterates its call for a binding agreement to reduce global carbon emissions. The world cannot afford to wait any longer for such an agreement; nor can we. The absence of a global accord is no excuse for doing nothing. The Maldives is one of the smallest island economies in the world. Our contribution to global emissions is 0.003 per cent, yet we are the most vulnerable to the effects of climate change. For that reason, we are also taking difficult and bold measures to combat climate change. We were among the first countries in the world to eradicate chlorof luorocarbons well ahead of time. We intend to become the first to eradicate hydrochlorof luorocarbons (HCFCs) by 2020. And we intend to become the first to ban the import of HCFC-based equipment. A number of our islands are also scaling up renewable energy, not only to avoid spending 20 per cent of our gross domestic product on importing fossil fuel, but also to reduce harmful emissions. Hence, we are converting to solar or hybrid sources. A total of 20 islands in the Maldives will switch to renewable energy sources for power by next year. Those measures are part of a national initiative to transform the country’s economy into a low-carbon one. If we can take those measures, why cannot the larger States, endowed with more resources, take stronger measures? That requires political commitment and difficult choices. I therefore call upon carbon-emitting countries to develop and utilize clean and renewable energy to reduce their carbon footprint. Climate change is just one of many challenges faced by the Maldives. The country’s transition to democracy, which has reached a critical point, is another pressing challenge that we are determined to overcome. Four years ago, the Maldives held its first competitive, multiparty presidential elections. That was a watershed moment in the country’s long march towards democratic governance. Four years after that historic election, in October 2008, people in the Maldives ask if their lives are any better. The answer, regrettably, is, not yet. Multiparty democracy in the Maldives has so far been deeply divisive. It is also polarizing, tearing apart families and the fabric of a small, homogenous society. Political leaders elected to office by popular vote chose to act with impunity. Centuries-old values of respect and tolerance have been replaced by intolerance and hatred in the islands where almost everyone literally knows everybody else. That is not because there is any inherent deficiency in the democratic form of governance; rather, it is because the road to liberal democracy is always rocky and long and must be navigated by a political leadership with an unshakeable commitment to the principles and values of democracy. The past eight months have been particularly challenging for the consolidation of democracy in my country. The elected President of the country resigned in February, and later claimed that he was forced to do so. The Government opened a commission of inquiry to investigate the allegations. Some of our friends rushed to conclusions, and that did not make it any easier for us. Some big States and some not so big States took sides in a domestic political crisis and contributed to making a bad situation worse. While the Government was striving to strengthen the country’s institutional capacity to manage the new democracy, some international actors continued to publicly criticize the country’s young institutions. We look for new ideas and are receptive to good ones, irrespective of where they come from. That is why we engage in international cooperation. We expect the result of international cooperation to help, not hinder, a country’s march towards a better, more democratic society. It is supposed to build a country’s institutions and to gain public confidence. International cooperation should not be used to undermine national capacities. It should not be used as an excuse for larger countries to interfere in the domestic politics of small States. Small States are vulnerable in many ways. We alone are not able to stop larger and stronger countries from dictating terms. Our vulnerability is particularly acute when there is discord and system breakdowns in our countries. This is the time when the larger States should help the smaller States in the international system. The history of a nation is never a single event or a single person. The life of our nation is composed of the lives of all of us who live there. We are the building blocks in the evolution of our countries. The knowledge, education, experience and commitment we bring to our nation are what shapes our history. They make our history unique. Respect for us and our small nation requires that our external partners not underestimate our capacity to contribute to the shaping of our own destiny. Nations must be allowed to resolve their problems on their own. The international community should not take punitive actions against any sovereign State unless there is verifiable and blatant abuse of human rights. Yet I believe that international cooperation can and should promote positive change in emerging democracies. I believe that international organizations such as the United Nations can play a pivotal role in strengthening democratic institutions in such nations. I believe that some of the advanced democracies can also help small States with technical expertise in consolidating democracy. To do that, it is important to recognize the unique challenges and characteristics of small States. It is important to protect the social fabric of the tightly knit societies in our countries. It is important to review current approaches and modalities for extending international cooperation in the promotion of democracy. It is important that international cooperation not be seen to be promoting a particular ideology. It should not be seen to be taking sides in domestic politics. International cooperation should be seen to promote and encourage a home-grown democracy that is consistent with universally accepted values and principles. Regular, free and fair elections are a fundamental component in any democracy. Yet holding elections is not, by itself, a sufficient condition for consolidating democracy. It requires patience. It requires making hard choices and compromises. And it requires cultivating and nurturing democratic values. My Government is implementing a comprehensive plan to nurture such values in the Maldives. We are committed to creating an environment that guarantees individual freedom, where human rights are fully protected, where democratic values flourish and where human innovation thrives. We are committed to creating a democratic and free society that is able to shape its own destiny. ﻿As with most sessions of the General Assembly, we are sharing, yet again, our common fears and frustrations in a world that is going wrong. We have no stories, only f leeting moments, with which to fill our sinking hearts with hope in a near or distant future. Ours is a narrative of mounting challenges and doubts. Deep in our hearts, we know that our very survival on this fragile planet is under threat. Yet, we share no common vision and fail to think and act in concert and with faith. And so we find ourselves being overwhelmed by the forces that our irresponsible and discordant actions have unleashed. All that we have achieved individually, as nations, as regions and as a species, faces the threat of loss and reversal. As we argue and falter, the world we have built is falling apart. Climate is changing and ecosystems are dying. The growing extractive industry spurred by consumerism is exhausting our natural resources, and conflicts are rising in number and more are looming on the horizon. Food and energy are becoming costlier, thereby deepening poverty, inequality and discontent. Economies are unravelling; jobs and security are being lost. For too many, basic human rights and dignity remain beyond reach, and the relevance of Governments and States is in question. Families and communities are losing their resilience, and society is crumbling. I have reminded the Assembly each year that the solutions we speak of and the measures we take to meet all these challenges and many others plaguing mankind are of the kind that address the symptoms but aggravate the deeper malaise. We are discovering that our problems — be they economic, social, ecological or even political — are interconnected and rooted in the folly of mankind’s pursuit of the wrong ends in wrongful ways. Although the United Nations has been a house of gloom in recent years, it does have its shining moments, projecting rays of hope. The Secretary-General referred to some of these in his address that focused on sounding the alarm about our direction as a human family. One such moment came when this great body resolved that it was time to accept human well-being and happiness as a developmental goal binding all of humankind with a common vision and pursuit, and that it should therefore bring about a holistic, sustainable and inclusive approach to development. That determination caused my country to host a high-level meeting here at the United Nations, which brought together more than 800 participants from all walks of life and all over the world. I was awed, humbled and indeed inspired by the phenomenal response to our call. It was a gathering of extraordinary minds and concerned citizens, moved by the urgent need for change — to blaze a new global path to human happiness and the well-being of life on earth. Yet another moment came just months ago when the General Assembly declared 20 March the International Day of Happiness, thereby bringing together all human beings, at least once a year, to reflect on the meaning and purpose of life and realign our thoughts and actions. Three months ago, 40,000 representatives gathered for the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development. The outcome document (resolution 66/288, annex) fell far short of what we ought to have achieved. Many saw it as a missed opportunity. Not so for my country and people, who, with minimal expectations, came away with cause for hope. The agreement to develop universal sustainable development goals that would integrate the economic, environmental and social dimensions of development was a substantive outcome, consistent with relevant General Assembly resolutions and the efforts that my own country is making. My country hopes to participate actively in this work and sees it as evidence of the growing convergence in the belief that we need to make a break with the past and agree on a collective vision. It is our expectation that such sustainable development goals will steer the post-2015 international development agenda and set humankind on the right course. What inspired me most at Rio was the indomitable spirit of the hundreds of side events, several of which I was honoured to participate in. These were organized by civil society, grass-roots organizations and the private sector. They came to share best practices and learn from each other, and, more important, to demonstrate that sustainable development is not just an idle dream but that there are individuals and organizations who are breathing and living lives to realize what is profound and necessary. While many of them went home disappointed by the outcome document, I know it is not in their creed to despair. They are the pioneers, taking the lead where Governments fear to tread, and giving courageous expression to humankind’s basic goodness and inherent wisdom. They are the torchbearers of a brave new dawn, and we too must have the wisdom and humility to follow their lead. I am also inspired by the appointment of a high-level panel by the Secretary-General to advise on the global development agenda beyond 2015, which, we note, convened its first meeting earlier this week. Moreover, the launch of the Sustainable Development Solutions Network, led by Jeffrey Sachs, is to be welcomed, as is the Secretary-General’s personal commitment to enriching the discourse on the future of our race. For our part, I would like to submit that Bhutan has initiated a number of steps in the same direction, pursuant to the recommendation issued at the 2 April High-level Meeting on Well-being and Happiness here at the United Nations. In July, His Majesty the King of Bhutan established a working group of international experts, comprising over 50 thought leaders, to elaborate the details of the new proposed development paradigm over the coming two years. Their work will be made available for consideration at the sixty-eighth and sixty-ninth sessions of the General Assembly, in 2013 and 2014. Simultaneously, His Majesty the King appointed a national steering committee to guide and support this process. The working group will elaborate and refine the four themes of well-being and happiness, ecological sustainability, fair distribution, and the efficient use of resources. It will prepare detailed documentation, including thorough literature reviews and examinations of existing best practices on how the new paradigm can work. They will look at its potential accounting and measurement systems, regulatory and financial mechanisms, and trade, governance, and other institutional arrangements. We believe the findings will complement and contribute to the efforts being undertaken by the Secretary-General’s high-level panel. Towards this end, my Government also looks forward to the early establishment of the intergovernmental open working group tasked with designing sustainable development goals, as agreed at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio. This month, Bhutan enters its forty-second year of membership in the United Nations. During this period, Bhutan has been a beneficiary of the international community, whose support and generosity have helped to bring about tangible improvements in the lives of the Bhutanese people. In return, Bhutan’s contributions to the work of the United Nations have been modest but focused. We have endeavoured to demonstrate our dedication to the causes of peace, development and the rule of law. As a responsible member of the international community, committed to the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, Bhutan is now prepared to engage directly in the process of building a more secure world through non-permanent membership in the Security Council. This we regard not only as a privilege, but also as a responsibility of United Nations membership. It was in this context that in 1999 Bhutan informed the Asian Group of its aspiration to seek membership in the Security Council for the term 2013-2014. Having never held nor sought membership in the Council before, we are convinced that all States, regardless of size, population or level of development, must be permitted the opportunity to contribute by bringing diversity of thought, approach and, indeed, their will to the work of the Council. As a small State, we have always attached the highest importance to multilateralism and the primacy of an effective United Nations that serves the interests of all its Member States. The election of non-permanent members to the Security Council next month will, I believe, provide the opportunity for the international community, as represented by all Member States, to demonstrate its commitment to the fundamental precept of sovereign equality as enshrined in the United Nations Charter and to the principles of democracy and rotation that give it meaning.﻿At the outset, allow me to convey the fraternal greetings of His Excellency Mr. Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, President of the United Republic of Tanzania, who could not attend this session of the General Assembly due to other equally important engagements. On behalf of the Government and people of the United Republic of Tanzania, I wish to congratulate Mr. Jeremić on his well-deserved election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. It is indeed a pleasure for me to participate in the general debate under his presidency. Similarly, I congratulate his predecessor and commend him on the manner in which he steered the work of the sixty-sixth session. It would be remiss of me not to acknowledge and commend the Secretary-General and the entire Secretariat on their service to the Organization. Echoing the President’s words during the opening of the session, we meet here amid upheavals of unprecedented scope, characterized by multiple intra- and inter-State conflicts in the world and a time of emerging and worsening conflicts, most of which are taking place in Africa and the Middle East (see A/67/PV.1). Those conflicts have caused the deaths and suffering of millions of people, including children, women and the elderly. Undoubtedly, a new world order of lasting peace, security and freedom, as envisaged in the United Nations Charter, can be achieved through dialogue and reconciliation. We applaud the fact that the theme of this general debate is “Adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. Similarly, we welcome the many initiatives undertaken at the national, regional and international levels in promoting that matter. During the 50 years of the independence of the United Republic of Tanzania, we have witnessed and respected the effectiveness of preventive diplomacy. We have participated in various mediation processes in the region and on the continent, such as in Burundi, Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Kenya and Madagascar. The involvement of former Presidents of Tanzania the late Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere and Benjamin William Mkapa, as well as His Excellency Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, President of the United Republic of Tanzania, in those processes is a clear testimony of our continued commitment to preventive diplomacy. We are all too aware of the dire consequences of conflict, particularly when all the mechanisms provided for under the Charter of the United Nations to resolve conflicts fail to find a permanent solution and to ensure lasting peace. The situation in Syria is a case in point. It is important that we find ways to strengthen early-warning mechanisms and to prevent conflicts before they occur. In no case should we pursue actions that would encourage parties in conflict to resort to armed solutions instead of dialogue. While facilitating dialogue, it is also important that we uphold the principles of impartiality, objectivity and respect for international law. The unity of the entire membership is crucial in ending impunity and human rights violations, wherever they occur. The pacific settlement of disputes as provided under Chapter VI of the Charter of the United Nations has never been so pertinent. In the interest of maintaining peace and security, we should learn to keep our differences aside and not allow them to create divisions among us. I believe the presidency of Mr. Vuk Jeremić will guide us in that direction. Tanzania is the current Chair of the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) Organ on Politics, Defence and Security. We have taken up the mantle of leadership of the Organ at a time when some countries of the region face security challenges. Under the umbrella of SADC and the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region of Africa, we have resolved to find a durable solution to the crisis in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where rebel groups such as the Mouvement du 23 mars are destabilizing and threatening the peace and security of the entire region. Members of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region have agreed to establish an international neutral force comprising 4,000 troops to address the problem. Tanzania has committed to contribute troops to the neutral force. Through the African Union (AU), we are taking the necessary steps to ensure that the deployment of this international neutral force is done under the mandate of the United Nations. Likewise, Tanzania will work assiduously with other SADC member States to support the return to constitutional normalcy in Madagascar and the finalization of the drafting a new constitution in Zimbabwe, which will open the way to democratic elections by June 2013. We proceed in that endeavour with the firm belief that a solution in both countries will finally be achieved through the effective and constructive engagement of all parties concerned. Twelve years ago, in the month of September, we met in this very Hall to adopt the United Nations Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2), which gave birth to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).Three years from now, we will reach the deadline we agreed. We have undoubtedly made some progress on many fronts, but most developing States are unlikely to achieve all the goals by the deadline of 2015. My country has also made progress in the achievement of the MDGs. It attained Goal 2, on universal primary education, back in 2009. It has also registered considerable gains on Goal 3, on promoting gender equality and the empowerment of women, as well as on Goal 6, on combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases. We have also achieved moderate results on MDGs 4 and 5, dealing with infant and maternal mortality, respectively. However, much more remains to be done to emancipate our people from the traps of poverty. Our goals to improve the livelihood of our people must go beyond 2015. It is therefore necessary that we consider the post-MDG agenda as one that complements, instead of diverting our focus from the current MDGs. My delegation proposes a second generation of MDGs, whereby all our efforts are directed to ensure that MDGs are achieved post-2015 in those countries that will not have achieved them by 2015. At the sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly, President Kikwete expressed serious concern regarding global food insecurity (see A/66/PV.15). Since then, the situation has worsened and the vulnerability of many developing countries has increased. We must work collectively to address food insecurity. We must increase food production and productivity on a sustainable basis, strengthen agricultural systems, and establish early-warning mechanisms, as we also must develop effective responses to calamities such as those in the Horn of Africa and the Sahel region. While ensuring food security, we need also to address the issue of nutrition. It is in that regard that Tanzania is a proud member of the Scaling Up Nutrition movement. At the national level, the Government is undertaking various initiatives to ensure food security through public-private partnerships. My Government has had the pleasure of hosting the Africa Green Revolution Forum, in Arusha, which concluded today, with the participation of African leaders, ministers, private agribusiness firms, financial institutions, farmers, non-governmental organizations and agricultural experts. The Forum was organized by the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa. United Nations reforms are long overdue. The United Nations is composed of its States Members, without which there is no United Nations. If we Member States cannot agree on reforms then the United Nations will never be reformed. It is a fact that we have had long discussions without reaching concrete agreements. The time has come to walk the talk. It is important to remind ourselves that Africa is the largest regional group in the United Nations and the only continent that is not represented among the permanent seats on the Security Council. That situation equally overlooks the fact that most discussions in the Security Council concern Africa. We, African leaders and the African Union, have voiced our sentiments and agreed to have two permanent seats with the veto power. We will continue working together based on the agreed Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration, to which we all subscribed. I therefore appeal to Africa to maintain that momentum and solidarity. My country will continue to support reform of the United Nations, including the Delivering as One initiative, which has been implemented with considerable success in Tanzania since 2007. The Government will continue to support that process, including its continuation in programme countries. The endorsement of that initiative by some members of the Assembly is a clear testimony to the value of the approach. We believe that the 2012 quadrennial comprehensive policy review will take into account those positive achievements. The United Nations is anchored in the principles of human rights, the rule of law, good governance and democracy. We the Member States must implement what we deliberate and agree upon, otherwise the credibility of the United Nations will be at stake. The Security Council and the General Assembly have adopted many resolutions on Palestinian independence. Tanzania applauds the admission of the Palestinian State to UNESCO. As we do so, Tanzania would like once again to appeal to the major Powers and donors in UNESCO to review their decision to punish UNESCO by withdrawing their contributions. That decision impacts more on developing countries, in particular African countries, which draw on up to 65 per cent of UNESCO funds in education, science and culture. With regard to Western Sahara, Tanzania calls upon the Secretary-General to continue his mediation efforts in bringing together the Government of Morocco and the leadership of Western Sahara to resolve the longstanding crisis. In that regard, my delegation encourages Morocco to rejoin the AU so that together we can find a durable solution on the independence of Western Sahara. Tanzania remains troubled by applications of unilateral sanctions and embargos imposed against Cuba and its people. As President Kikwete said at the previous session of the General Assembly (see A/66/PV.15), Tanzania is in full solidarity with the people of Cuba in demanding the end to all unilateral sanctions and embargos against them. We Member States have the duty and responsibility to make the world a better place. We should maintain the sanctity of humankind before our ambitions and desires. In order to achieve that, we should recommit ourselves to and uphold the objectives and principles contained in the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations (resolution 2625 (XXV)).﻿I extend my congratulations to Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I wish him every success in the year ahead. The global economic situation remains uncertain. Europe is in recession and growth in other places is weakening. There is increasing concern that this combination of weak consumer demand in developing countries and a continuing crisis in the eurozone may lead to a global recession. An even greater danger, especially for small States like Singapore that depend on global trade, is the risk of increased protectionism. Populist pressures in countries affected by austerity and economic crisis can cause further instability as politicians become unwilling or unable to deal with long-term, structural economic problems. While emerging economies focus on maintaining economic growth, developed economies are preoccupied with both immediate and structural socioeconomic problems. Understandably, there is less focus on strategic regional and international issues. However, serious, long-term challenges remain. Rising income disparities, climate change issues and worries about food security are not being adequately addressed at the global level. Amid that uncertainty, no State or group of States currently has the power to definitively set the international agenda. Decision-making and governance on global issues have and will continue to become increasingly complicated. The multiplicity of interests makes finding consensus in international forums that much more difficult. Frustration over the inability of existing multilateral institutions to deal with those global challenges is growing, and that has given rise to a greater tendency for countries to turn to smaller and more exclusive groupings outside of the United Nations framework for solutions. The Group of 20 (G-20) is one such example. Without the G-20, the 2008 economic crisis may have well led to a global depression. However, the G-20 is an exclusive grouping; it leaves out the vast majority of the United Nations membership, particularly small States. It is a self-selected group, but one that is here to stay in the foreseeable future. The Global Governance Group was therefore established by like minded-countries, including Singapore, to strengthen the engagement between the G-20 and the general membership of the United Nations. Even as we work with the G-20, we should look for ways to strengthen and reform existing multilateral institutions, including the United Nations, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organization. That will help us to achieve greater efficiency, rather than continuing to invent more smaller groupings. Many of us often fault the United Nations, including the Security Council, for its inability to act to resolve ongoing conflicts. However, as frustrations mount, let us not forget that the United Nations and its organs, including the Security Council, can do only what its Members choose to do, so we are responsible for the current state of affairs. The United Nations is an organization of sovereign nation States. It has no more authority than what its Members give it. Any failure of the Security Council and the United Nations in maintaining peace and security represents a failure of the Member States themselves. We should therefore support ongoing and new efforts aimed at strengthening the United Nations, instead of denigrating it. The United Nations is unique in its ability to come up with global solutions because of its universal membership, legitimacy, experience and presence on the ground. No other organization is as well equipped to do so. A significant expansion of the United Nations mediation capabilities, good offices and peacekeeping efforts has made it central to international crisis prevention and the mediation and settlement of disputes. We should continue to support the strengthening of those aspects. The five permanent members of the Security Council, with their veto powers, have the primary responsibility to make the Council more effective. That is why Singapore has consistently called for improvement in the Security Council’s working methods. The Security Council is not a rubber stamp for the interests of its individual members. Its power, if not visibly and openly wielded for the greater good and to discharge its mandate in all instances, will eventually undermine its legitimacy and leadership role in the international community. That is in no one’s interest. Singapore believes that the long-term goal of the United Nations should be to provide an effective system of international law and resilient mechanisms for the peaceful settlement of disputes. That will provide a platform for States under threat to bring their problems before those mechanisms with confidence, rather than trying to resolve them by force. The President has selected an important theme for the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly: bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means. In a fast- changing environment, where the global governance structure is fragmented and coordination is difficult, the parameters of dialogue among States become crucial. In that dialogue among States, respect for the rule of law by all parties is essential. If that were not the case, small States would lose their independence and autonomy, and even the larger and stronger States could never feel entirely secure. A stable international system is critical to our collective security. Small States like Singapore are vulnerable even at the best of times, and these are not the best of times. It is therefore particularly important for small States to be in an international environment where international law and institutions based on law can flourish. We need a predictable and stable, rules-based international system in order for all of us to survive. Singapore firmly believes in the importance of safeguarding the international rule of law. We have participated actively in various multilateral negotiations, used international dispute mechanisms, such as the International Court of Justice and the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, to resolve disputes we have had with other countries. Our view is that disputes, including those over territorial sovereignty, can and should be resolved peacefully, in accordance with international law. As major beneficiaries of a stable international system, it is incumbent upon small States to not only support the international rule of law, but to also speak up against its violation. This year, the 105-member Forum of Small States will commemorate its twentieth anniversary with a high-level conference on small States on 1 October. The conference will discuss the role of small States in international relations, including our commitment to the rule of law and the peaceful settlement of disputes. We invite all Member States to attend the conference. We hope that the conference will be a platform for small States to share our experiences and remind the international community that small States, too, have contributions to make to the maintenance of an international system that benefits all nations of any size.﻿On behalf of my delegation, please allow me to extend our sincere congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I have no doubt that under your able leadership this session will yield fruitful outcomes. I would also like to convey my admiration to Mr. Ban Ki-moon for his untiring efforts to overcome the many multifaceted challenges confronting our world today. Let me start with the obvious. The twenty-first century we live in is facing one of its most difficult moments. Never before has the pressure of global interdependency been so intense. As economies become more and more interdependent, not only are opportunities to create wealth multiplied, but so are opportunities to transmit destabilizing shocks from one country to another. Imbalances and risks are omnipresent. In the context of declining economic prospects and mounting global challenges, collective actions are required to remedy the shortcomings of global governance in ensuring systemic financial stability, a stable monetary system and the regulation of international financial markets, and in dealing with major systemic shocks. The multilateral system, devised more than half a century ago, is facing challenges to its capacity to deliver on its mandate as the international agenda has become increasingly complex. Clearly, the current multilateral system needs to be radically reformed and made into a well-coordinated and permeable body of institutions that can deliver innovative and feasible solutions to a globalized international society. In order to respond to systemic risk in the financial sector, we have closely cooperated with China, Japan and the Republic of Korea within the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to strengthen a regional financial safeguard mechanism, called the Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralization, which has recently increased its funding level from $120 billion to $240 billion. We strongly believe that that regional financial arrangement will complement the global firewall for regional crisis resolution. ASEAN has also established a macroeconomic and finance surveillance office in Singapore to achieve a more integrated, even- handed and effective surveillance mechanism. As we all struggle to overcome the effects of the global financial crisis, we should not lose sight of new emerging challenges and threats, such as obstacles to sustainable development, the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), climate change, food security and so on. Many developing countries still face many obstacles to achieving all their MDGs by the target date of 2015, owing to their vulnerability to the global financial crisis, the challenges of the debt burden and the unmet commitments of official development assistance. Having achieved stable growth successively for a number of years, Cambodia is confident that, despite its limited resources, it will achieve the Cambodian MDGs by 2015. We welcome the adoption of resolution 66/288, entitled “The future we want”, by the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), held in Rio de Janeiro on June 2012, and strongly advocate that the MDGs should remain a fundamental milestone in the development agenda. We also call for renewed efforts to enable the developing countries to achieve their Millennium Development Goals on time. Climate change is a critical problem for the whole world, requiring immediate and concerted actions. The rapid pace of climate change could have devastating effects, particularly on small States in the Asia-Pacific and the Caribbean regions, in the form of rising sea levels. Other developing countries, mostly dependent on agriculture, are threatened by similar negative effects, such as extreme f loods and drought, which affect their livelihood. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon described such phenomena as a real threat to international peace and security. Regrettably, despite all the adversities inf licted on the world’s most vulnerable people by climate change, the international community remains divided on implementing a rapid and critical global response. We call on developed countries to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions in accordance with the United Nations principle of common but differentiated responsibility. It is disappointing that, for the most part, the promises made by developed nations in Copenhagen in 2009, in Cancún in 2010 and in Durban in 2011 have not been fulfilled in a timely manner. In the same vein, we are of the view that natural-disaster management and cooperation mechanisms should be further developed and strengthened at both the regional and the global levels, with a view to preventing natural disasters and addressing related issues that have become more pressing owing to climate change. ASEAN has made great progress in that area at the regional level; the establishment of the ASEAN Coordinating Centre for Humanitarian Assistance on disaster management, known as the AHA Centre, deserves mention in that regard. Food security is another serious issue of the present time. At the speed the world’s population is growing, the United Nations Environment Programme predicts that by 2030 we will need to produce 50 per cent more food, 30 per cent more clean water and 40 per cent more energy. Consequently, the increased competition for natural resources and between biofuel energy and food for human needs will only further exacerbate the food security situation. A major global reform is needed urgently to implement the Rio+20 recommendations on sustainable development, which emphasize both the need for major investments to modernize agriculture and encourage small-scale agricultural projects around the world and the vital importance of addressing interlinkages between energy and agricultural prices. Rising oil and food prices are a common concern of the majority of countries in the world. High oil prices contribute to soaring food prices. Rising oil and food prices mean increased poverty levels at a time when global growth is still weak and the number of the unemployed and underemployed is continuously rising in many countries. Our modern global food system is highly oil-dependent, but petroleum is becoming less and less affordable. Thus, there is no solution yet for the world’s worsening food crisis within the current energy and agricultural system. What is needed is a major rethinking of both food and energy prices and the coordination of agricultural and energy policies. We can but appeal to the world oil-producing countries to consider the negative effects of higher fuel prices and their impact on food and energy security. In our regional context, ASEAN has adopted a comprehensive strategy on food security with the signing of the Emergency Rice Reserve Agreement with China, Japan and the Republic of Korea, which is a permanent scheme for meeting emergency requirements. The Group of 20 (G-20) has a crucial role to play in meeting those global challenges. Cambodia, as Chair of ASEAN, appreciated the opportunity to represent ASEAN at the G-20 Summit held in Los Cabos in June. Cambodia’s views reflected the need to, among other things, to sustain economic stability and structural reform for growth and employment; the urgency to improve and strengthen the international financial architecture in an interconnected global economy; the imperative of completing the Doha Round and the prevention of the return of trade protectionism; and the priority of further facilitating trade, an important conducive factor for stimulate international economic growth, which all our countries need. Cambodia fully supports all the priorities agreed among the G-20 countries in Los Cabos to promote trade, job creation and economic growth, including their determination to finalize negotiations on the Doha Round agenda as soon as possible. International trade is one of the most important factors that will bring about economic growth and job creation in both the immediate and longer term. Since the establishment of the United Nations, in 1945, the global situation has changed so dramatically that global diplomac urgently needs to be strengthened. It is therefore in everyone’s interest to push for comprehensive reform of the United Nations so that it reflects the diverse needs and representativeness of the world today. That reform should be comprehensive and should cover not only the Security Council but also other United Nations organs in order to preserve its relevance and legitimacy as an effective global governance institution to cope with the reality of the present-day world, which is different from that of the post-Second World War era. The General Assembly should be further empowered to enable it to play a leading role in addressing today’s global problems as a democratic, deliberative policymaking organ of the United Nations. Both the permanent and non-permanent membership of the Security Council should be equitably expanded so that it represents both developed and the developing countries. In the spirit of the United Nations peacekeeping mission for the advancement of world peace, security and development, Cambodia has contributed 1,000 men to United Nations peacekeeping operations in Africa, especially in South Sudan and Lebanon. Through its experience of close collaboration with the United Nations and its own experience in ending war, and thanks to its win-win policy and post-conflict management, in particular with respect to economic and social development and national reconciliation, Cambodia wishes to contribute more effectively, through the Security Council, to the cause of peace, security and the peaceful settlement of conflicts in many parts of the world. To that end, for the very first time since joining the United Nations, in 1955, Cambodia has presented its candidature as a non-permanent member of the Security Council for the period 2013-2014, for which voting will be held next month. I also wish to note that, since 1955, Cambodia has never occupied any seat in the United Nations system and that its candidature has been endorsed and supported by all ASEAN member States. Before I conclude, I would like to take this opportunity to stress that Cambodia deeply regrets the acts of violence against the United States Consulate in Benghazi, which caused the death of four American diplomats, including the United States Ambassador, even though we very well understand the legitimate anger at disrespect towards the Muslim religion.﻿It is an honour and a privilege to address this forum today and to share the views of the Republic of Macedonia regarding a number of issues of concern for all of us. Allow me first to extend our congratulations to Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election to the prestigious position of President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I believe Mr. Jeremić will respond to all the challenges and tasks that await him, and I wish to express our full readiness to cooperate. Allow me also to express my thanks and to compliment the former President of the Assembly, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for his successful presidency during the sixth-sixth session. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the work and efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, which undoubtedly have contributed to strengthening the role and reputation of the world Organization. It was a real honour for me and for the citizens of Macedonian to be his host. The Republic of Macedonia highly values and supports the Secretary- General’s endeavours, and he can count on our continued full support. Now, more than ever in the history of humankind, the nations of the world are confronted with the same challenges, are victims of the same threats and share the yearning for a better future. Effective multilateralism is of essential importance for the development of collective action to respond to common challenges. The United Nations is an organization whose legitimacy to tackle global challenges through global actions is universally accepted and undeniable. The support provided by Member States is of crucial importance. I wish to assure the Assembly that the Republic of Macedonia will continue to contribute actively to the reinforcement and improvement of the efficiency of the system. This diverse world is in need of a common denominator, a link that unites all individuals, peoples and countries regardless of differences in culture, language and religion. That link is the Charter of the United Nations, with its principles and fundamental values. The Republic of Macedonia is firmly dedicated to respect for the Charter, which serves as the basis of its foreign policy. Ever since our declaration of independence and after becoming a Member of the United Nations, the peaceful resolution of international disputes has been one of our leading principles and guidelines for our behaviour as a responsible member of the international community. Therefore, I wish to welcome the General Assembly recommendation to put the issue forward as a topic of debate this year. An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. When speaking about international disputes, it is inevitable to refer to prevention activities as one of the mechanisms for their resolution. Today preventive diplomacy has proven its relevance once again. In the early days of our independence, the Republic of Macedonia was host to the United Nations Preventive Deployment Force, a one-of-a-kind mechanism for the United Nations at the time. It was a positive experience for Macedonia, the United Nations and the Member States involved. We are witness to the fact that the evolution of international relations and the increased complexity of challenges in our globalized world confirm the need to develop mechanisms and to use good offices. At this point, I would like to commend the Secretary-General for advocating more thorough analysis of this issue in his report on strengthening the role of mediation in the peaceful settlement of disputes, conflict prevention and resolution (A/66/811), which produced good, operative solutions for upgrading the capacity of the United Nations in this area. I believe we can and must explore new ways and possibilities for strengthening the role of the Secretary-General in the resolution of international disputes. In a time of global economic crisis, the focus of the United Nations on preventing conflicts and further developing preventive diplomacy is understandable. The Republic of Macedonia believes it makes sense to focus on the effective and efficient use of resources — which are shrinking — which is why we have been attentively following all activities relating to the report of the Secretary-General on civilian capacity in the aftermath of conflict (A/66/311) and to the implementation of the recommendations of the Senior Advisory Group found therein. It is very important that the international community make progress in preventing new conflicts and relapses into conflict in vulnerable countries. The Republic of Macedonia stands ready to offer its experience in the area of democratic institution-building, based on the Macedonian inclusive, democratic model of integration without assimilation. In that context, I wish to refer to the recent High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels. The Republic of Macedonia attaches great importance to this issue, which is undoubtedly the basis of all democratic societies, and the report of the Secretary- General on the rule of law (A/66/749) has provided food for thought and further action. The Republic of Macedonia believes that inclusiveness is an important principle that needs to be implemented when it comes to the rule of law. The rule of law is multifaceted and should cover all stakeholders, especially civil society. The rule of law is incomplete and is impossible to achieve without respect for human rights. As the Secretary-General said in his statement at the opening of the general debate at this session, “We shall have neither peace nor development without respect for human rights and the rule of law” (see A/67/PV.6). As a country building a model of inclusive democracy, the Republic of Macedonia attaches particular importance to the development, promotion and protection of human rights. It is the right and duty of every country to safeguard and promote the rights of its citizens. Human rights should reinforce and reaffirm national sovereignty. This, then, will be the best guarantee that, as a principle, the responsibility to protect will remain the desired first and primary pillar. The Republic of Macedonia will continue its efforts to preserve and promote human rights — to promote democracy and the rule of law, gender equality and the improvement of the role of women, and to protect vulnerable and marginalized groups. We also strongly support Member States’ active participation in the universal periodic review as a mechanism for promoting the effectiveness of the Human Rights Council. In that context, I would like to remind the Assembly that the Republic of Macedonia has presented its candidature for membership in the Human Rights Council for the period 2014-2016. We are convinced that our experience in this area, along with our particular achievements and ambition to promote this area of global governance, will enable us to make a full contribution to further strengthening and affirming human rights in subsequent years. Once again this year all priorities are focused on the three most important pillars of our world Organization: peace and security, sustainable development and human rights. All are mutually related. There can be no sustainable development without peace and security, and there can be no sustainable peace without development and poverty reduction. The Millennium Development Goals continue to be the parameters by which we evaluate our success. The Republic of Macedonia’s aspiration to become a member of the European Union has created the necessary spur for political, economic and social reforms. Promoting equitable and comprehensive development founded on human rights has provided a solid base for the national development agenda. The Government of the Republic of Macedonia therefore established a programme focused on emphasizing economic development, improving our citizens’ standard of living, creating jobs, fighting corruption, increasing education opportunities and promoting democracy and inter-ethnic relations. Balanced and sustainable development is a major investment in the future, and in the interest of the general well-being, everyone must participate. The outcome document of Rio+20 — the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (resolution 66/288, annex) — should be taken as an additional impetus to use alternative possibilities for achieving sustainable development. The Republic of Macedonia, in coordination with the policies of its European partners, will advocate expanding those alternatives. Sustainable development is closely linked to disaster risk reduction and adaptation to climate change. Recognizing that interdependence, the Republic of Macedonia supports a holistic approach to the implementation of these goals in national, regional and global strategies, policies and plans. We have demonstrated our dedication to the region of South-eastern Europe and to regional cooperation through our chairmanship of the South-East European Cooperation Process. The region is not immune to global challenges and threats, and such threats can be removed only by meeting the obligations and numerous commitments we have all undertaken. I am convinced that intensive regional cooperation in this area will help us build a region more resistant to natural disasters. We wish focus our chairmanship on the process of meeting the real and everyday needs of our citizens — those of peace, security and development — that are the result of global challenges that recognize neither political and ethnic barriers nor religious groups. Among the priorities of Macedonia’s chairmanship will be cooperation in economic and agricultural matters, culture and tourism, science and education, cross- border concerns and the protection of the environment. Our principles are based on solving citizens’ problems regardless of ethnic, religious or any other affiliation. I see no way of doing this other than through close regional cooperation. Let us build good-neighbourly relations on the basis of solidarity. In return, we expect our neighbours to show solidarity in actions for a safer region. We can and we must be ready for future challenges so as to provide a safer future for future generations. Our young people will hold us to this. They expect our generation to behave responsibly. They live in a time of new technologies, and they already know what is going on at the global level. I believe firmly that we should focus all our energy on young people, to create youth for the future and a future for our youth, formed in a spirit of dialogue, tolerance and respect for diversity. That is why, in parallel with the South-East European Cooperation Process summit, we will also host the eleventh Forum of the Dialogue among Civilizations, in cooperation with UNESCO and the Council of Europe, with the focus on youth. As President of the Republic of Macedonia, permit me to say that we are greatly looking forward to celebrating the tenth anniversary of the first regional gathering of the dialogue among civilizations, which we are preparing together with UNESCO. It was here, at this rostrum, that my predecessor, President Boris Trajkovski, with the strong backing of the United Nations and UNESCO, shared his dreams about that initiative, which was then realized in Ohrid in 2003, when the wounds from the bloody conflict in the former Yugoslavia were still fresh. The words of the Ohrid message speak of the undoubtedly enormous potential of the Republic of Macedonia: to be a functional multi-ethnic, multilingual and multireligious foundation of the European Balkans and of the Balkans in Europe. Next year we will host the third World Conference on Dialogue among Religions and Civilizations. The Republic of Macedonia has always believed that dialogue is irreplaceable and put its belief into practice. We condemn all forms of violence. No one should be a victim of violence — not individuals, peoples, States or their official representatives. Just as the limits of decency must be observed in public spaces, so violence can never be a fitting response. The rule of law and human rights are fundamental principles and they cannot be subject to compromise. I fully agree with the position of the Secretary-General, stated during his visit to Macedonia in July, that we should never make compromises when it comes to universally acknowledged principles. It is the duty of the United Nations and of each and every one of us not to subject the rule of law and human rights to compromise. Therefore, I have asked the Secretary- General to bring renewed attention to the 2008 report of the Independent Expert on minority issues, Ms. Gay McDougall, entitled “Promotion and protection of all human rights, civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights, including the right to development” (A/HRC/7/23). Allow me as well to recall the recommendation in that report that the Government of our southern neighbour should abstain from disputing whether there is a Macedonian minority, and instead focus on the protection of the right to self-identification, freedom of expression and freedom of association of that community. In the recommendation, our neighbour is urged to respect the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, according to which the country should be allowed to use the word Macedonian to denote its name and to freely express its ethnic identity. The report concludes that the right to protection must be respected, as elaborated in the 1992 Declaration on Minorities and in the basic international conventions on human rights. I expressed my expectation that the Secretary- General would make use of his authority and engage in order to overcome the impasse on the talks regarding our country’s name that are taking place under his auspices. Respect for the judgment of the International Court of Justice will mean respect for international law and the rule of law in practice. I believe in this process. I believe that this process can lead to a solution, but we cannot wait another 19 years for that to happen. Today, in the twenty-first century, it seems quite absurd to be called “a former nation” or “a former colony”. In the name of the dignity of my people, I hereby take this opportunity to publicly thank all 134 Members of the United Nations that have recognized the constitutional name of my country, which is the Republic of Macedonia. And here is my appeal to everyone here: address us from the point of view of the future. I fully subscribe to what was said by the United States President, Mr. Barack Obama, just a few days ago, in this very Hall. We believe that freedom and self- determination are not unique to one culture. Those are not simply American values or Western values, they are universal values. It has happened in the history of the United Nations that a country was given additional criteria to become a Member, but the 1948 advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice stated clearly that this was not correct and was contrary to the Charter of the United Nations. Except in our case, no one has been deprived of the right of self-identification thus far. Macedonia should get what it rightfully deserves; something that all Member States represented here already have and enjoy. Without the right of self- identification, Macedonia is prevented from being equal to all other Member States. In that regard we are discussing international law. We are talking about the rule of law. Here is the judgment of the International Court of Justice adopted 10 months ago in favour of the Republic of Macedonia. We are asking for this judgment, adopted by a body of the United Nations, to be respected. We ask for this because we have been prevented from using our constitutional name even at this very rostrum. The International Court of Justice, in paragraph 95 of the judgment, states clearly that Macedonia has the right to refer to itself as the Republic of Macedonia in its relations with the other party and within international organizations. In a spirit of good-neighbourly relations, and because of our strong determination to overcome and settle unresolved issues, I take this opportunity to appeal to our neighbour to work together with us in that direction. From this rostrum in the heart of the United Nations, I urge them to respect the judgment of the International Court of Justice and their own internationally assumed obligations. We are neighbours, but we wish to be more than just neighbours. We wish to be partners, allies and friends, and to be able to build together the present and future of our people, our countries and our region. We wish to work together with them and build a safe and free world for our children. The protracted nature of the reform of the Security Council and the revitalization of the General Assembly, as well as the comprehensive process of reinforcing the coherence and efficiency of the system, should not discourage us. On the contrary, they should serve as an impetus for further mobilization. Only the United Nations can provide integrated solutions for interdependent issues such as development, peace and security, human rights and humanitarian action. In conclusion, I invite all Member States to recall the words of Jean Monnet, the father of modern Europe. He described the use of the veto in modern European history as the expression of lack of power for dialogue and the impossibility of overcoming national egoism. Let us build a prosperous world for our future generations. We hope that our neighbour will make its way out of crisis as soon as possible. We have proposed a series of practical measures on how to upgrade our economic and good neighbourly cooperation, which should include a bilateral agreement on the avoidance of double taxation. Macedonian taxes are favourable for our neighbour’s businessmen and, as always, the doors of the Republic of Macedonia are wide open to them. The Republic of Macedonia firmly believes that the United Nations remains the centre of multilateralism and global governance. The Organization inspires universal dialogue, which in most cases results in joint solutions for handling global problems in order to reach a shared vision of the future of the international system.﻿His Excellency Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, who was not able to be here today, wishes me to express, on behalf of the people and Government of Côte d’Ivoire, the warmest congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I would like to assure Mr.Jeremić of the full support of the Ivorian delegation for the success of his mandate. I would also like to convey to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, my delegation’s satisfaction with the work undertaken and the encouraging results achieved under his presidency. His commitment to our common cause has allowed the Organization to fully play the role conferred upon it by the United Nations Charter. I wish to reiterate to His Excellency Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon my sincere thanks for his determined commitment and for his persistent quest for peace throughout the world. I reiterate to him once again the infinite gratitude of my President and the entire nation for his unfailing commitment to Côte d’Ivoire. Through the Secretary- General, I would like to pay tribute to all the civil and military personnel of the United Nations for their tireless efforts on behalf of peace and security. The theme chosen for this session, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, follows on from the theme of the previous session. In particular, it reflects the essence of the ideals of the San Francisco Conference, which led to the birth of the Organization. The purposes ascribed to the United Nations in its Charter can be summarized by the triptych of peace, liberty and development. To achieve those Charter purposes, the founding fathers of the Organization established a system of collective security on the basis of two major principles: the prohibition of recourse to the use of force in international relations and the obligation to settle disputes peacefully. Now more than ever, we must enhance our collective security system and ensure that it has all the necessary resources to be effective. For his part, the President of Côte d’Ivoire is committed to strictly following a policy of peace and dialogue. These are principles that were enshrined as cardinal virtues, through trial by fire, by the late President, Mr. Félix Houphouët-Boigny, who won a place in the history of Côte d’Ivoire, and indeed of the African continent, through his pragmatic approach to the settlement of conflict through dialogue. For that reason, President Allassane Ouattara spares no efforts in seeking lasting solutions, both nationally in the post-electoral crisis in Côte d’Ivoire, and regionally, especially with regard to the situations in Mali and Guinea-Bissau. Indeed, the security of West Africa is seriously challenged by military and political crises orchestrated by military, rebel or terrorist movements, particularly in Mali and Guinea-Bissau. The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), which has always promoted the path of negotiation highlighted by the theme of this session, is working tirelessly to ensure a positive outcome to those crises and to ensure the restoration of constitutional order and democracy in Mali and Guinea-Bissau. While the situation has considerably improved in Guinea-Bissau, the one in Mali continues to be of major concern. Rebel movements linked to terrorist networks continue to occupy the main towns in the north of that country, which they are now pillaging and destroying with total impunity. Determined to put an end to this abusive occupation of the north of Mali, ECOWAS plans to deploy a military force at the request of the Government of Mali to help the Malian army efficiently fulfil its sovereign mission of defending the territorial integrity of the country. The establishment and deployment of such a force requires major support from the African Union, the United Nations and all development partners. Indeed, the presence of groups with links to terrorists in northern Mali is a genuine threat, which could lead, if nothing is done, to the implosion of the entire West African region and the Sahel. When we look at the non-State players involved in the current conflicts in Guinea-Bissau and Mali, particularly the terrorist networks and armed groups linked to transnational crime and piracy in the Gulf of Guinea, we note how incomplete the current instruments for resolving these crises are, based as they are on negotiation and mediation. Today, there is no questioning the fact that the resurgence of terrorism in the Sahel region in general and in northern Mali in particular has created a sanctuary, a lawless zone. Western Africa faces other dangerous threats to the security of not only the region itself but also other regions, perhaps even Europe. Eradicating these problems requires concerted and diligent action by ECOWAS, the African Union and the United Nations. I am pleased to note the creation of the United Nations Counter-Terrorism Centre, which is financed and hosted by Saudi Arabia. I also welcome the proposal made by the Secretary-General to appoint a United Nations counter-terrorism coordinator, and I would like to assure him of Côte d’Ivoire’s full support. Transnational crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking, piracy in the Gulf of Guinea and the destruction of the environment are threats to the world in general and to Africa in particular. The International Maritime Organization, in its 2010 annual report, quite rightly said that the West African coast is one of the six main centres of piracy in the world. Responsibility for the measures to be taken to deal with these scourges lies first and foremost with the States of the subregion and the principal subregional organizations. In that regard, I welcome the fact that the fortyfirst ECOWAS Summit, held in Yamoussoukro on 28 and 29 June, decided to convene a joint summit of West African and Central African States to take joint measures on piracy and organized transnational crime in the Gulf of Guinea pursuant to Security Council resolution 2039 (2012). However, despite the goodwill of the countries of the subregion, they cannot, on their own, deal with the threats facing maritime security. My country welcomes the proposal of the Secretary-General to facilitate the organization of a summit of heads of State of the region to enable them to draw up a regional strategy to combat maritime piracy, together with the African Union. Côte d’Ivoire, like many other African and non-African States, sincerely hopes that the Organization will be able to adopt in the near future a legally binding arms trade treaty, following the efforts made by all parties to reach a consensus. The international community must not lose the historic opportunity it has to better regulate, if not outright prohibit, a trade that causes 500,000 deaths each year and that is the main cause of violations of human rights and the destabilization of our States, as well as worsening conditions for our people, and, above all, poses a constant threat to regional and international peace and security. With respect to the links between economic development and the environment, the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held in June in Rio de Janeiro, shows what we can accomplish when we work together to build a better world for current generations and those to come. The combined crises in food, energy and the environment threaten the peace and security of all humankind. Yet we have the means to achieve a world free of famine and hunger. It is within our capabilities. Allow me to stress that, with respect to the international system, Côte d’Ivoire urges all delegations, as we take up the eighth round of intergovernmental negotiations concerning the reform of the Security Council, to show flexibility and a spirit of compromise. It is important to act quickly, because the composition of the Council is the keystone of our collective security system, and in that light its composition should be designed to maximize efficiency. In order for the Security Council to be truly effective in its decisions, since it devotes two-thirds of its time to the African continent, we consider it more critical than ever for Africa to hold a permanent seat with the right of veto, in accordance with the recommendations defined in the Ezulwini Consensus. Taking duly into account the wishes of African heads of State and Government, the reform of the Security Council could represent a historical opportunity that the international community should seize in order to repair an anomaly in international relations. With that in mind, I hope that the forthcoming negotiations on Security Council reform will be crowned with success, yielding a Council that truly represents the realities of our shared history and our contemporary world. I would like now to make some remarks about the situation in my country. Thanks to the most valuable support of the international community, especially the United Nations, Côte d’Ivoire has emerged from the military and political crisis that rocked the foundations of its economic and social development for nearly a decade. Resolutely committed to the path of postconf lict reconstruction, and with the aim of national cohesion, Côte d’Ivoire has made considerable progress in the political, economic, social, security and humanitarian spheres since 21 May 2011, the official date on which President Ouattara assumed the presidency of the Republic. Those results were made possible by the determination of the Ivorian Government to implement the three central priorities defined by the President when he took office. First, on security and stability, significant joint efforts by the Government and the United Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire lead to improvements in the situation, even in the west of the country, which has been the most problematic area. Secondly, national reconciliation has been effected through the National Commission for Dialogue, Truth and Reconciliation, which has been serving as the standing body for maintaining political dialogue. Reconstruction and economic renewal are already off to a good start, with an estimated growth of more than 8 per cent in the gross national product for 2012. The economic situation has greatly improved, thanks to the support of our development partners, especially after we met the goals of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative in June. The resulting drop in our foreign debt and the adoption of our national development plan for the period 2012-2015 allow Côte d’Ivoire to hope that we can reach the double-digit economic growth rate necessary for our country to become an emerging country by 2020, as envisioned by President Ouattara. Before concluding, I would like to say that Côte d’Ivoire notes that the President of the General Assembly at the previous session opened an informal interactive dialogue, at the level of the United Nations, on the issue of the responsibility to protect. In the aftermath of that useful forum and in the light of the lessons learned, Côte d’Ivoire, following the example of the Secretary- General, believes that the principle of the responsibility to protect has achieved sufficient maturity and that what remains to be done now is to implement it. On that basis, the Economic Community of West African States and the Global Centre for the Responsibility to Protect jointly held a regional forum in Abuja devoted to that concept. A similar meeting is scheduled to take place in Côte d’Ivoire at the end of this year. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate the gratitude of President Ouattara, his Government and the Ivorian people to the United Nations and the entire international community for their commitment to peace and stability in Côte d’Ivoire. That constitutes to be the precondition for development.﻿The meetings we hold at the United Nations are always very important events at which we debate social, environmental, political and economic issues throughout the world. I commend the President of the General Assembly on having chosen as our central theme the peaceful settlement of disputes throughout the world. I wish to take the great opportunity of my presence here today at the United Nations to inform the Assembly about a dispute between Chile and Bolivia. In 1879, as the result of an unjust war — an unjust invasion — masterminded by Chilean oligarchical interests, with the participation of transnational corporations with an eye on Bolivia’s natural resources, we lost our corridor to the Pacific Ocean. Bolivia was founded in 1825 and lost access to the sea in 1879. In the early 1900s, a treaty was signed that has not been complied with. It is for that reason that I have come here to take advantage of the theme of our debate, the peaceful settlement of disputes, to say that major disputes among States have been resolved and injustices rectified through the resolve and goodwill of the relevant authorities. Chile cannot disregard Bolivia’s rights or the pronouncements of an entire continent, much less prolong indefinitely our forcibly imposed landlocked status. An unjust, imposed and non-implemented treaty cannot be allowed to continue to harm a people that is only calling for justice and for an end to its country’s status as a landlocked country. The intangibility of treaties means that they are not dogma. Treaties, like all other creations of human beings, can be changed. I say that because when we state that Chile must return our sea corridor, we are asked, what treaty? I therefore wish to take this opportunity to speak of a treaty signed in 1903 between the United States and Panama on the Panama Canal. In 1903, a treaty on the Panama Canal was signed under which the United States was authorized to build the Panama Canal and received sovereignty, in perpetuity, over the territories on both sides of the Canal and the area of the Canal. In other words, according to the Treaty of 1903, that country would be the owner for all eternity of the Panama Canal. However, a renegotiated treaty was signed in 1977 that gradually transferred sovereignty over the Canal zone from the United States to Panama, and in 1999 Panama recovered control and administration of the Canal through the Panama Canal Authority. How did the United States return the Panama Canal to Panama when, through the first treaty, it had to be the owner of the Canal in perpetuity? And how is it possible for Chile not to return Bolivia’s sea corridor? I wish also to take this opportunity to say that today, in this millennium, is a time of integration and of focus on the protection of humankind, not a time of domestic or external colonialism. That is why I wish to reaffirm once again that the Malvinas are for Argentina and the sea is for Bolivia. These demands, conflicts and disputes have to be resolved peacefully, and Bolivia is a peace-loving country, in keeping with the State’s new political Constitution. Bolivia appeals once again to the Government of Chile, here before the Assembly, to resolve definitively the issue of our landlocked status through peaceful settlement mechanisms. We call on the international community to support us in that endeavour, so that this conflict, which does great harm to the integration of the American continent, may finally come to an end. Among the Bolivian people, among children and grandparents alike, there is a strong sense of the need to recover our sea corridor. Bolivia was born with a sea, and it is not possible that oligarchies and transnational companies, in order to plunder our natural resources, can be allowed also to wrest from us our territory. We need the support of all those at the helm of the United Nations to put an end to a historical injustice on the part of international Powers. Yesterday I listened to the various statements on issues related to democracy, human rights and peace, and I feel that the statements we make here as Presidents show that we agree in theory. All of us here are great defenders of human rights who want peace and defend democracy. But we are divided. The United Nations is not united, and that makes a great difference. I listened very carefully to the statement made by Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon telling us that we have to change the world. We very much agree that we have to change the world. But how can we change the world if we do not change the United Nations? How can the United Nations be responsible for interventionism on many continents? I have listened to two or three addresses by several countries, and I was very pleased. There seems to be a rebellion on the part of States against powers, authority and capitalism. I am very pleased, because when I came here for the first time in 2006, only the countries of the Bolivarian Alliance for the Countries of Our America, with great ideological, political and programmatic clarity, stated that everything was for the people. I know some countries on other continents — very timid and fearful countries — feel that today are losing their fear of the Powers. I would like to say to them, to their representatives and to their Presidents that we should not be afraid. We should not be afraid of empires or capitalism. Capitalism and imperialism are not the solution to life or to humanity. We are living in times of the crisis of capitalism, of a crisis in food. I remember when I was still a trade union leader, we conducted campaigns to have the external debt of underdeveloped countries — at that time, they were called underdeveloped countries, instead of developing countries — cancelled. Now I realize that our debt as poor countries can be paid, but the debts of capitalism are impossible to pay. That is what the world we are living in today shows. We speak here of democracy. We have to defend democracy and, in order to do that, we have to intervene in some countries. But if we really wanted to be democratic, we would respect all of the resolutions of the United Nations. Just to cite an example, does the Government of the United States of America respect United Nations resolutions on the economic embargo against Cuba? It has never respected them. That is due to pride on the part of the rulers, not of the American people. The rulers are never going to respect those resolutions, but they speak of democracy and of defending democracy. In that connection, I must express our full backing for the Cuban people. Their commander, former President Fidel Castro, the most caring person in the world that I have ever known — and I admire that revolutionary people — is, despite the embargo, engaged in continuous battle at the side of his people. It is not possible that in the twenty-first century an economic embargo continues against the Cuban people, a genocidal embargo that has failed and which violates the rights of an entire people. The embargo has been condemned by almost all of humankind and the international community, including the allies of the United States of America, for its extraterritorial character and its imposition in violation of humanitarian and international law. Bolivia also denounces the unjust inclusion of Cuba on the list unilaterally assembled by the United States in its report entitled “State Sponsors of Terrorism”, the purpose of which is to justify the embargo and continue imposing new sanctions on the regime and the people of Cuba. What authority does the Government of the United States have to include a country in the list of terrorist countries? Do not all the peoples of the world realize that the number one terrorist country practicing State terrorism is the Government of the United States? There have been so many interventions, so many dead and wounded, so much killing — under the pretext of defending democracy. Moments ago, a fellow president spoke about an intervention in Libya to restore democracy, which is a lie. They intervened in Libya not for its people but to recover oil for the Powers. We have to be sincere and straightforward with humankind, but where there are presidents who stay in power without practicing democracy but are in favour of capitalism and imperialism, there is no intervention because they are allies of the United States Government; they are allies of the empire; they are allies of capitalism. Where there are natural resources, like oil, in the hands of the people, they have to intervene under any pretext — terrorism, dictatorship or drug trafficking — all of it to recover or to plunder the natural resources. Furthermore, I would also like to launch an appeal for the immediate release of five Cuban anti-terrorist political prisoners in the United States. Their release would show a political will to defend human rights. The President of the United States could release them; the power to do so is in his hands. I hope that justice will be done to our five Cuban brothers, who have been imprisoned unjustly. In truth, I do not understand it when the presidents who speak in defence of human rights are never the ones who respect human, either within or outside their own countries. I do not understand how one can speak of peace while there are economic inequalities in the world. While there is an economic policy that concentrates capital in the hands of a few and which impoverishes many, there will never be justice, there will never be peace or respect for human rights. Indeed, the economic models that concentrate capital in a few hands provoke injustice and create uprisings. I feel that now is the best time — I am referring to various meetings at the United Nations — to gain better understanding of the situation of all the peoples of the world. We had requested the revision of some important international treaties concerning a very important product for the indigenous peoples of the Andean region, the coca leaf. Although the coca leaf has medicinal and ritual properties, it has been penalized under the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs. Therefore, Bolivia, which wishes to remain faithful to its commitment to fight drug trafficking, has requested adherence to the Single Convention with a reservation that preserves the right to use coca leaf for cultural purposes, especially medicinal purposes, within our territory. In some states of the United States, it is legal to sell cocaine, but the United States does not allow us to consume coca leaf — which is not cocaine. I welcome the support for the proposal on the part of many countries of the continent and the world — non-aligned countries — recognizing, after thousands of years, the consumption of coca leaf as legal. I respectfully request that the Assembly, acting on behalf of the United Nations, correct a historical prejudicial act. Unfortunately, since there is an illegal market for coca leaf, that is, a market for cocaine or drugs, a portion of the harvest is diverted to the illegal market — but we are fighting that. We in Bolivia say that there will be no free cultivation of coca, but there cannot be zero coca leaf. I commend the United Nations for issuing a report a few weeks ago affirming that, for the first time, Bolivia had reduced the cultivation of coca by more than 12 per cent. That is a Government achievement without any dead or wounded; previously, that kind of reduction resulted in many dead and wounded. Now, while maintaining respect for human rights and appealing to the conscience of my coca-producing brothers and sisters, we have had a net reduction. Coca cultivation has increased in some countries, which are subsequently decertified by the United States of America. But the United States has also decertified a country like Bolivia, even though it has reduced the cultivation of coca by 12 per cent. Do we then have to plant more coca for the Government of the United States to certify us? One cannot understand it. Of course, since we are an anti-capitalist and anti-imperialist people and Government, we have been decertified. That decertification is a political statement; it does not take into account the efforts made by the Bolivian people through its Government. We are not interested in whether we are certified or not. That is the least of it. What we are interested in is the United Nations data. Honestly, the United Nations works in a transparent manner to recognize the work that our Government has done to reduce coca cultivation. I would also like to take this opportunity to talk about the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Bolivia was previously a little-known country that had been abandoned, living on foreign aid. We welcomed foreign aid. I would just like to present what we have achieved since we took charge in Bolivia, in the context of the MDGs. Bolivia was supposed to reduce extreme poverty to 24.1 per cent by 2015. I would like to report that, by 2011, we had reduced extreme poverty to 20 per cent. We have a plan. By the time Bolivia celebrates its bicentennial, we will have eradicated extreme poverty. The numbers from international organizations confirm that, last year, 10 per cent of the population went from extreme poverty to the middle class. That is 1 million Bolivians. The second figure to note is that, according to the MDG targets, 78.5 per cent of the population should have access to safe drinking water by 2015. I would like to say that, as a result of our programme, this year we reached 78.5 per cent of the country, especially the indigenous rural communities. We have a programme called “My Water” to promote greater investments in water. What I did personally was to bring together all of the projects on safe drinking water or water for irrigation from every municipality in the country. For the second year in a row, we have invested $300,000 per municipality, and that has been rather helpful, in addition to other programmes by the Ministry of the Environment and Water, in particular in cities and in rural areas. Those programmes for drinking water mean that we have achieved our goal in 2012, not in 2015. Hopefully, by 2015 we will have achieved 90 or 100 per cent drinking water coverage. That is our programme. Another of the Goals pertains to coverage in terms of hospital births. The MDG target for 2015 is 70 per cent. I am here to report that by 2009 we had achieved 70 per cent coverage, not to mention other programmes such as the one that provides subsidies for pregnant women and children under the age of two. We are making good progress, although with slow steps. Why has there been such rapid change? Social programmes and structural changes have allowed us to change Bolivia. One example is telecommunications. Bolivia has 339 municipalities. In 2006, telephone coverage or mobile phone coverage in rural areas existed in only 90 municipalities. The day after tomorrow, I am going to inaugurate mobile communication in the last municipality, the furthest from the cities, in the Bolivian Amazon. Now my brothers and sisters living in rural areas have telephones or mobile phones in all 339 municipalities. Entel, our telephone service, had been privatized. We took it back, nationalized it, and began to invest in it in order to provide better service. We have made progress for the following reason. As President, I received a mandate from the Bolivian people to recover or nationalize our natural resources. The biggest company in Bolivia is Yacimientos Petrolíferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB). For 20 years, neoliberal Governments worked to privatize our natural resources. They sold our natural resources, especially oil, to transnational corporations. Bolivia received only 18 per cent of all the profits, while 82 per cent went to transnational corporations. In addition, what did the contracts signed by neoliberal Governments say? Who was the owner? The oil transnational corporations acquired the right of ownership at the mouth of the well. The Governments would tell us that the oil and gas continued to be ours as long as it was under the ground. But once it came to the mouth of the well, it belonged to the transnational corporations. We fought, we mobilized, we raised awareness among the Bolivian people as to the importance of retaking or nationalizing that natural resource. On 1 May 2006, we nationalized that industry without any misgivings. That act changed the national economy. In 2006, our international reserves stood at $1.7 billion. Our international reserves now stand at more than $13 billion. In 2005, YPFB had $300 million in revenue. This year, it has $3.5 billion. In 2005, total public investments amounted to $600 million. Out of that $600 million, 70 per cent came from aid and loans and only 30 per cent came from the national treasury. This year State investments will amount to approximately $6 billion, with an additional $6 billion in private investments. How did that change come about in such a short period of time? Of course, Bolivia is a small country. But we have managed to change our national economy. That is why I say to countries whose natural resources, including oil and gas, are still in private hands that my recommendation is for them to nationalize and recover their natural resources. Natural resources cannot belong to transnational corporations; they belong to the peoples of the world, under State administration. I would also like to say that there have been social changes. Through a constituent assembly, we have guaranteed basic services as a human right. Consequently, they cannot be in private hands. It is a task for the State. Water, electricity and communications — we have nationalized them and turned them into human rights. It is very important that those basic services be human rights. While we still have some problems in Bolivia with electricity, we will continue to work to ensure that that basic service is a human right as well. I am here to share our brief experience with Governments, presidents, ambassadors and prime ministers. Where there is the will to change, there will be change. It depends to a large extent on willingness, constant efforts to educate our people and transparent work. Of course, we still have so many demands to meet — sometimes, too, exaggerated demands from a particular social sector or region — but regardless of our interests or claims, our homeland and humankind as a whole come first. Dealing as we are with the problems we have in Bolivia and the world with climate issues, I would like to take this opportunity to convey an invitation to an international meeting on 21 December to greet a new era, an invitation to the celebration of the end of the cycle of non-time and the beginning of a new cycle of equilibrium and harmony for Mother Earth. It would take too long here to go into the knowledge of our indigenous brothers in Mexico, Guatemala, Bolivia and Ecuador, but basically we are issuing this invitation to a virtual — and actual — debate on the following topics. First, the global crisis of sapitalism; second, the crisis of civilization — world Government, capitalism, socialism, community and the culture of life; third, the crisis of climate — human beings’ relationship to nature; fourth, the energy of community and change; fifth, awareness of Mother Earth; sixth, recovering ancestral practices and customs and the natural cosmic calendar; seventh, living the right way as a solution to the global crisis — because once again we affirm that we cannot live better by plundering natural resources, and that is a profound debate that we should have with the whole world; eighth, food sovereignty and security through food sovereignty; ninth, integration — through brotherhood, community, economy, complementarity, the right to communication, and community learning for life; the new human being with an integrated identity; complementarity; self-knowledge, awakening and, of course, health, which is so important. I would like to say that according to the Mayan calendar, 21 December marks the end of the non-time and the beginning of time. It is the end of the macha — the darkness — and the beginning of the pacha — communitarianism; it is the end of selfishness and the beginning of brotherhood; it is the end of individualism and the beginning of collectivism. As scientists know very well, 21 December this year marks the end of the era of anthropocentrism and the beginning of biocentrism. It is the end of hatred and the beginning of love, the end of lies and the beginning of truth, the end of sadness and the beginning of joy, it is the end of division and the beginning of unity. This is a theme to be developed, and that is why we invite all those here, those who are betting on humankind, to share their experiences for the good of humankind. As always, I would like to thank the President for these debates at the United Nations. We are always thinking about new generations and about the good of humankind, although sometimes sectoral interests intrude — but as representatives who come here from time to time, we have an obligation to think about how to shoulder our responsibilities, and that means, as someone said just now, bringing an end to the powers that be. This is not a time when we can continue to praise those powers; we are living in a time when peoples must be freed and where we must constantly seek economic and social equality for all human beings, a time to bring dignity to every citizen. I would like to commend those statements that questioned interventionism, military bases and troops. There will be social peace only when we change such political and economic policies and put an end to military bases and interventionism. My respect goes to those who resist military intervention by the Powers, which is not a solution. That is something we have learned, and that is why we hope that these debates will serve to help us think about life and humanity.﻿As President of the Transition of Madagascar, it is a great honour for me to participate in the general debate of the United Nations for the second time. The theme of the sixty-seventh session is akin to a call for unity, for shared contemplation and for generally revisiting existential questions and human values in the face of situations around the world where peace is extremely precarious. The last few years have indeed been marked by differences of opinion, political disputes and conflicts of interest. The world today faces new challenges to stability and the maintenance of peace. Various efforts and initiatives have been undertaken to deal with conflicts that are not homogeneous and disputes that do not always play out along the same lines. People’s interests differ and their approaches are not all equal. Today the list of the forms that global conflicts take leads us to an obvious reality: geostrategic variations conform to no one rule, and they are in perpetual f lux. The wise words of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in his statement at the opening of the sixteenth Summit of the Non-Aligned Movement seem particularly revealing in that context. Did he not stress that among the challenges that must be met, there are all too many political disputes between member States of the Non-Aligned Movement itself? Did he not urge the protagonists in the Syrian crisis to immediately institute a ceasefire and a halt to the violence? And yet we can only deplore the fact that his call produced no result. Scores of innocent people are still dying every day, and over recent months they now number in the thousands. We firmly condemn this loss of human life. The Earth continues to run with the blood of innocents, spilled violently not only in Syria but in other parts of the world as well. Given this state of affairs, despite the complexity of the challenges those conflicts present, the Secretary- General has not stood idle. We can only commend his determination to strive tirelessly to seek a negotiated settlement. States and other bodies must join forces to maintain peace, stability and security in the world. We cannot be passive witnesses to current or future disasters. The Republic of Madagascar sets particular store by the relevance and importance of the principles set forth in the United Nations Charter, as a source of inspiration as well as a pillar of support for the interdependence of nations and peoples. That being the case, human rights, the law of States, the rule of law and the other international regulatory tools place before leaders their responsibilities. The League of Nations defined the rule of law as a principle of governance based on the submission of all individuals and institutions, including the State, to the adopted and published laws, without distinction as to social or economic status; on the equality of everyone before an independent, impartial justice system; and on the harmonization of national laws with international human rights standards. No one should be above the law, and the culture of impunity must be banished. Mr. Benmehidi (Algeria), Vice-President, took the Chair. National conflicts today transcend borders and are becoming international problems. More than ever, the role of diplomacy and international negotiations face difficulties. The consequences of disputes play out in a number of ways, including with problems of impunity, instability in the Arab and Muslim world, the case of Somali piracy, illegal immigrations, persons displaced by war, problems regarding the Rom issue, religious confrontations, management of land and sea borders, and food insecurity. It is undeniable that much remains to be done to save human lives, because still civilian populations remain the primary victims of conflicts and disputes throughout the world. The world is in upheaval, and many countries are in a situation of transition. Their peoples demand change and hope for sustainable development. Those countries need to be supported and encouraged, not sanctioned. In that context, allow me to highlight the case of my own country, Madagascar. Madagascar is a country emerging from crisis, thanks to the involvement of the bodies of the Southern African Development Community and the support of the African Union, the Indian Ocean Commission and the International Organization of la Francophonie. A road map was signed and adopted by the Malagasy political parties in September 2011. Thus, several significant steps have been taken. The Malagasy parties have honoured their commitments. All the transitional institutions have been set up, including a national unity Government and the transitional Parliament. The road map, which we can call a political agreement, has allowed us to launch the electoral process. Madagascar needs to take its destiny into its own hands, to write its own history, and to end the cycle of political instability through the holding of credible and transparent elections, guaranteed by the establishment of the Independent National Electoral Commission of the Transition. Above all, recently, in concert with United Nations experts, the electoral timetable for Madagascar was officially announced, including the holding of presidential elections scheduled for 8 May 2013. Thus I launch a solemn appeal to all international partners, all Member States and friends of Madagascar to support us and encourage us in that approach, which is the only and most democratic path forward. Profoundly committed to the values of solidarity, tolerance and peace, Madagascar is now searching for swift development and a better future. During the three and a half years of transition and despite all attempts at destabilization, we have worked tirelessly every day to honour our commitments and ensure the protection of our countrymen, all the while addressing social problems. In spite of challenging times, and despite the suspension of international aid and subsidies, which once accounted for 60 per cent of the State budget, we have been able to keep the administration functioning normally and have honoured all our commitments and debts. Madagascar is indeed one of the least developed countries. Nevertheless, it is one of the least indebted countries in the world since its debt amounts to only 5 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP), compared to other countries whose debt rate can reach up to 238 per cent of GDP. Therefore, it is possible to develop our country and create our wealth through our own resources. That is the challenge that we are meeting. Now it is high time to embark on in-depth reform to create an effective system that meets the highest expectations of our respective populations — not forgetting, obviously, the need to double or even triple our commitments to fighting poverty and promoting sustainable development. Here today, I launch an appeal for international solidarity to channel the transition towards the building of a more promising future — but without stif ling us. The Malagasy people need their full and entire independence, but above all they must be able to hold transparent and therefore democratic elections. I know that everyone here is sincerely willing to lend us support. So allow me to give the Assembly the solution. The best way to help us is to trust us, honour the commitments made and let us shoulder our own responsibilities. In the name of universal values and principles, anyone meeting the conditions of eligibility dictated by law is fully entitled to exercise that liberty. That is a fundamental principle, and all States must respect it. The Malagasy people alone — not other countries or external pressure — have the sovereign right to decide who should guide their destiny. The Malagasy people alone will choose the man or woman who will lead Madagascar. If confidence is shown in the Malagasy people, they will be grateful. The concepts of non-interference and respect for the sovereignty of each country establish mutual trust, which is a basic rule for all international negotiations. They are among the peaceful means needed to build lasting peace. Efforts must be made to put an end to the inequalities in how countries in political crisis are treated. The realities on the ground and popular aspirations must be acknowledged in order to avoid making the wrong decision. Despite our disagreements and our differences on how to achieve a peaceful settlement of our conflicts, we the States Members of the United Nations are unanimous in our firm desire for peace. The United Nations system cannot just be the police of the world; it also needs to be a source of hope and of values. Our societies need to exist and find their way through their own values, because it is social and economic ills, injustice, the lack of protection for vulnerable populations and intolerance for minorities that often cause States to collapse. As far as its modest means allow, the Republic of Madagascar is determined to contribute to achieving our shared goals. The peace accord is fragile and needs to develop. To quote Martin Luther King, Jr., “All progress is precarious, and the solution of one problem brings us face to face with another problem”. It is our duty and responsibility to provide a better future for the generations to come. Global stability requires tolerance, assistance, the creation and equitable sharing of wealth, and poverty reduction through sustainable development and reconciliation. The principles of adjustment or settlement of international disputes by peaceful means requires a return to our values, gender balance and equality, and, above all, democratic alternation. God bless our nation!﻿First and foremost, I would like to congratulate Mr. Jeremić on his well- deserved election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. His country, Serbia, and Myanmar have traditionally enjoyed a close friendship and cooperation. Under his able leadership, the General Assembly will hold deliberations on measures to address the challenges faced by the world today. I am confident that his great wisdom, rich experience and great diplomatic skills will guide our discussions to produce the desired outcomes. I would also like to take this opportunity to extend our sincere thanks and appreciation to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for his outstanding leadership at the sixty-sixth session. Myanmar consistently pursues an independent and active foreign policy, a basic tenet of which is to actively contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security. In so doing, we encourage efforts to settle differences among nations by peaceful and amicable means. Our position is consistent with the essence of the theme of the current session, namely, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. There are different views and assessments regarding the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held in Brazil in June. A number of important decisions were taken on various issues, such as the renewal of commitments, the linkage of sustainable development to the Millennium Development Goals, renewable energy and the establishment of arrangements for better coordination on sustainable development. Member States must turn those decisions into actions in order to leave the legacy of a safe and sustainable environment to our future generations. Since becoming a Member State, Myanmar has always adhered to the founding principles of the United Nations. Our participation in the General Assembly here in New York amply demonstrates our commitment to active participation in, and support of, the work of the Organization. Today’s world is full of new challenges and opportunities. Urbanization and industrialization are taking place in developing countries on an unprecedented scale. Rapid progress in information technology gives the impression that our world is getting smaller. Meanwhile, the natural environment and the climate are facing new threats and challenges. In short, the world is changing as never before. It is also timely and appropriate to devote attention during the current session to issues such as the post-2015 development agenda and the rule of law. Myanmar is moving forward on the democratic path, but that has not been an easy task. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to share our experiences in that regard. In the ongoing reform process, we face challenges as well as opportunities. Within a short time, the people of Myanmar have brought about remarkable changes. I feel greatly privileged and honoured to dutifully serve the people as their President at this crucial time in the history of our nation. I truly consider my people as my own parents and elders. Since I took office some 18 months ago, the parliament, the judiciary, the armed forces, the ethnic groups, the political parties, civil society and the people at large have been taking tangible and irreversible steps in the democratic transition and reform process. Leaving behind a system of authoritarian Government, in which the administrative, legislative and judicial powers were centralized, we have now established a democratic Government and a strong and viable parliament that follows a practice of checks and balances. Despite the challenges, we can now see encouraging progress and significant developments in the country. Those include the granting of amnesties to prisoners; the dignified return of exiled political forces; the successful convening of the 2012 by-elections in a free, fair and transparent manner; the abolition of media censorship; freedom of access to the Internet; the establishment of worker and employer organizations; and increased participation by the people in the political process. At the current stage of the political process, we can see the emergence of democratic traits, such as the increasing participation of various political forces and their mutual tolerance, magnanimity, the expanded scope of political participation, representation and accountability. Our Government and other stakeholders have fostered a new political culture of tolerance and dialogue. The former main opposition leader, Nobel laureate Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, now participates in parliament, not only in her capacity as a member but also as Chairperson of the parliamentary Rule of Law and Stability Committee. She is also in New York this week. As a Myanmar citizen, I would like to congratulate her on the honour that she has received in this country in recognition of her efforts for democracy. Our country’s political progress is strengthening its political legitimacy. That, in turn, facilitates the establishment of basic political stability, thereby paving the way for the economic and social transformation necessary for better living standards for the people. The legislative body has also developed well and functions more effectively at every sitting. Parliament has now adopted landmark laws through democratic practices. We are promulgating laws and by-laws, taking into account the fact that economic development must not widen the gap between the rich and the poor. The rights of citizens must be protected. The natural environment must be preserved. Our workers should enjoy rights in line with international standards. We give carefull consideration to investments in the extractive sectors, such as energy, to ensure transparency and impartiality. We believe that the cessation of all armed conflicts is a prerequisite to building genuine democracy. As such, we place high priority on achieving lasting peace in the country. In accordance with our motto “From war to peace”, we are striving to put an end to the long- standing problems in regions inhabited by our ethnic groups. To date, we have reached ceasefire agreements with 10 armed groups. We will continue the peace talks, while further strengthening confidence-building measures. Peace negotiations at the national level will then continue towards a final peace agreement, which would completely end the armed hostilities. In order to redress the situation in northern Myanmar, leaders of the Union Peace-making Work Committee and the Kachin armed group are holding informal consultations and are working to further strengthen confidence-building measures. We consider any loss of life and property on either side in the armed conflict as a loss for the country. While the Government is resolutely pursuing political, social and economic reforms, some unfortunate and unexpected issues have arisen. A case in point is the recent communal violence in Rakhine State. In that connection, I would like to mention in the first place that the people inhabiting our country, regardless of race, religion and gender, have the right to live in peace and security. As the Assembly is aware, an independent national-level investigation commission has been established to look into the issue. To ensure impartiality, the commission is composed of representatives from all strata of society, including widely respected personalities from the Buddhist, Muslim, Christian and Hindu faiths. Upon completion of its task, the commission will submit its findings and recommendations to me. Demonstrating our determination to resolve the issue in a transparent manner, we have facilitated field visits to Rakhine State by representatives from the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, United Nations agencies, the United States and resident foreign diplomats in Myanmar. Access is being facilitated to those organizations that are willing to provide relief assistance to both communities without discrimination. The issue at hand cannot be resolved overnight. It will be resolved by taking short-term and long-term measures through a multifaceted approach, taking into account political, economic and social aspects. I sincerely believe that as an independent and sovereign State, Myanmar has done the right thing to secure our borders and to safeguard our sovereignty. We will do our utmost to resolve the issue in line with international norms. I am well aware of the fact that Myanmar’s democratic transformation process will be a complex and delicate one that requires patience. To complete the process, we certainly need the understanding and support of the United Nations and its States Members, the international community as a whole and, last but not least, the people of Myanmar. At the same time, it is equally important that Myanmar should be viewed from a different and new perspective. It is also necessary for us to be able to work in a more favourable environment than ever before. Myanmar is now ushering in a new era. As a member in the family of nations, Myanmar will participate more actively in the activities of the United Nations in various fields. Standing as a responsible and respectable nation on the world stage, we will take on the challenges of the twenty-first century in a bold and resolute manner. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Ban Ki-moon on his reappointment as General-Secretary and on his achievements thus far. Before I conclude, allow me to brief ly mention an important figure, namely, U Thant, a brilliant son of Myanmar who served as the third Secretary- General. Even in those days, U Thant had a vision of one world. He envisioned a global society guided by the spirit of one world — a world safe for diversity and a place of peaceful coexistence where global citizens could practice the virtues of tolerance, cooperation, understanding and compassion. We believe that if we make his vision a reality, we will soon achieve a world that is more peaceful and prosperous. U Thant’s tireless endeavours for peace and his achievements during his tenure as the Secretary-General will never be forgotten. The people of Myanmar will always take pride in and remember him as a great son of Myanmar.﻿I convey my greetings to the President of the General Assembly, Mr. Vuk Jeremić, whom I congratulate on his election. I wish him success during his tenure as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I would also like to convey my greetings to the former President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser of the State of Qatar, for the excellent work he accomplished during his tenure. Also allow me to express my appreciation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his competent management of the Organization. We reaffirm our trust in his leadership during a particularly difficult time in our history — during one of the worst financial crises that the world has ever known that has had repercussions in the economic, social, political, food, energy and environmental sectors, to say nothing of the terrible threats to peace and security emanating from every corner of the world. As a small island State, with a shortage of resources and with only 37 years of independence, Cape Verde is proud to be a democratic country that is based on the rule of law, built with the suffering and the determination of Cape Verdeans inside and outside our country. Notwithstanding the fact that my country faces enormous difficulties in ensuring its own existence and that to overcome them will require international solidarity, I believe that Cape Verde can, although modestly, contribute towards finding solutions to important problems that threaten the troubled world of our time. Apart from the political stability that has characterized us as well as the build-up and consolidation of a democratic system, the Cape Verdean nation that preceded the creation of the State can be considered an example of peaceful coexistence among peoples who originated from different countries, with different creeds integrated into what had already been a mixed sculture. Our nation stands open to the world and to the exchange of values. Cape Verde has opted for a policy for peace, dialogue and understanding in the resolution of conflicts. The expression of those values is part of the Cape Verdean people’s way of living and being. Ours is a culture of tolerance that has shaped, in the almost four decades of its history, the values and principles of the country’s policies. Besides our modest political contribution to the resolution of conflicts in Southern Africa, for example, the end of apartheid in South Africa, the independence of Namibia and peace in Angola, I would assert that our biggest contribution has been our way of life as a people and as a culture. Through our way of life, we have been able to show that tolerance and the sharing of values can be part of daily living, even in adverse conditions. Our way of life has allowed successive Cape Verdean Governments and heads of State to manage the foreign policy of our country in a consistent manner, giving priority to peace, justice and the peaceful coexistence of people in the formulation of policy. Accordingly, our foreign policy is the expression or translation of our culture and our ideology. That is also what guides me as I strive to broaden Cape Verde’s contribution to our continent and, hopefully, to the world. On 25 September, we celebrated the twenty-fifth anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Cape Verde, which is proof of the stability we enjoy in our country. It has allowed numerous presidential, legislative and municipal elections to take place, and changes in power have occurred with the highest degree of normality. By happy coincidence, that critical date for Cape Verde — 25 September — coincides with the launch of the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly, that exponent of democracy on a global level which is undergoing a process of revitalization. As such, I am very grateful to be able to share our milestone with General Assembly. The Magna Law stipulates that our domestic legal order incorporates the precedents and standards of international common law and the law of treaties as lawfully approved and ratified. It is thus clear that we attach great importance to institutions like the United Nations and the principles that guide them. Nevertheless, we are aware that if those principles, which we have embedded in our Constitution, including those referring to human rights, do not trickle down into our day-to-day culture, the Constitution will not be fulfilled in its entirety. We therefore urge all Cape Verdeans, be they in the country or outside, to further internalize the values of our Constitution, which we consider a critical step in ensuring its vitality and full realization. Despite the serious issues arising in the world and the vulnerabilities of the Cape Verdean economy and its direct impact on the living conditions of the majority of its people, I must say without false modesty that I am proud of the trajectory that my country has followed since its independence. At independence, our annual gross domestic product (GDP) was $190 per capita, whereas today it has grown to $3,295 per capita per annum. Several social indices have mirrored that growth, making it possible for us to achieve some of the Millennium Development Goals. In fact, the human development, economic and financial results registered in the biennium 2011-2012 received positive reviews from the major international financial institutions. Ours is a service economy — with services accounting for 80 per cent of GDP in 2010 — with a very small market and an agricultural sector that is struggling with desertification and drought. We therefore cannot ignore our great vulnerabilities or rest on our laurels for having graduated to a medium-income developed country. On the contrary, we cannot lose sight of the fact that our economy is still very dependent, that it cannot employ a significant portion of its potential workforce, with all the social consequences that stem from that. We are therefore obliged to continue to rely on international solidarity. We of course will continue to use our meagre resources in an efficient and rational manner and develop even more effective efforts to combat poverty, social exclusion and unemployment, which in 2010 reached an overall rate of 21 per cent, and 50 per cent among youth. Constraints with respect to energy, water and sanitation continue to garner our full attention so that, as we build key infrastructure, we can create the conditions needed to achieve sustainable growth in our economy. We also must take into account the fact that the impact on small island developing States of climate change and natural disasters is a sword of Damocles threatening our future. It is imperative that all countries, acting consistently and with solidarity, implement environmental defence programmes, develop the green economy and help build true global resilience. One of the most remarkable characteristics of today’s world is the increasing interdependence of all sectors. We may speak frequently of the economy, but that is because it conditions all the rest — the environmental, health, security, political and cultural sectors, indeed, nearly all areas of human activity. It is therefore fundamental for us to constantly monitor all relevant aspects of those complex relationships so that we can understand the leading trends that have an impact on our process of development, but also so that we can contribute even modestly to solving the problems of people and countries across the globe. Although social and political stability are essential aspects of our society, we cannot ignore the fact that on our continent, Africa, that has not been a basic characteristic for internal and, to some extent, external reasons. I express my deep concern about the economic and financial global crisis that continues to severely punish the Governments and defenceless populations of the African continent. Those people are already suffering from hunger, the scourge of AIDS, the consequences of other endemic diseases, the f light of hundreds of thousands of displaced people and the overwhelming environmental degradation to which the continent is victim. Despite the fact that the continent least contributed to that imbalance, it is Africa that most suffers from its consequences. Such crises also affect security not only because of regional conflicts but also owing to the universal dimension that terrorism has assumed. In that regard, it has affected a good part of our continent with its links to trafficking in drugs and persons, maritime piracy, religious intolerance and the problems that arise from the political, social or military instability prevailing in many of our countries. That is fertile territory for terrorism and its growth. The recent cases of Mali, Guinea-Bissau and others, such as the Sudan, Somalia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and some countries of the Maghreb, well illustrate the situation. The international community has every interest in resolutely focusing on the fight to eradicate such ills. Despite those constraints, it should be acknowledged that the new wave of African leaders has been doing a great deal for the continent’s progress. The international community must therefore help such countries to find appropriate solutions to the situations that they face, without interfering or acting in the interests of others rather than of our people. In any case, an organization such as the United Nations, which is a depository of values that respect legality and international law, should never, through its silence, promote, further or support solutions that merely legitimize unconstitutional actions. It is clear that much remains to be done. In our view, as I have said before, in Africa there has been no lack of mechanisms, declarations, recommendations, programmes and projects with assessments and perspectives that disregard the political, institutional, social and cultural elements and sometimes resemble a vicious cycle. There is no real development because there is no peace. Democracy is not deeply rooted because it conflicts with cultural and moral traditions. There is no peace on account of the intolerance and social exclusion that prevent its citizens from building a free, fair, democratic and pluralistic society. That, at times, exacerbates armed conflicts and other social ills. Africa needs a new train of thought that does not reject the universal values of democracy but, on the contrary, uses them to enrich its own development process with a dialectic between modernity and tradition, freedom and the tendency for its own conditioning, the demands of its economic development and the fight against exclusion and social inequality, and reality and preconceptions. Africa needs to regain its self-confidence. Africa still needs to see stronger links between the United Nations and the African Union for a true development partnership. It is time to take decisions on issues such as global trade and climate change on the basis of global negotiations that are grounded in fair, equal and ethical rules and that are in step with the countries of the South, in general, and of my continent, in particular. That would give legitimacy to other forums, that is, in the context of the World Trade Organization, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. In short, we call for decisions on specific measures that will result in effective decision-taking within this Organization on development areas, such as cancelling the foreign debt of developing countries, in particular small island developing States. We are certain that that would be a stimulus for all such countries to achieve the Millennium Development Goals in 2015. In 2009, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon affirmed at Princeton University that the United Nations needed “a new vision, a new paradigm, a new multilateralism”. That would help to ensure global economic and financial stability, combat poverty, re-establish peace, respond to the effects of climate change, improve global health, fight against terrorism and ensure disarmament and non-proliferation. At the closing ceremony of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) in June, it was stated that Rio+20 had shown that multilateralism was an irreplaceable instrument for the global expression of democracy. We reaffirm that that is the legitimate path for finding solutions to problems that affect all humankind. I support and welcome such statements. In conclusion, the world has developed immensely since the end of the Cold War. The current multilateral system must align itself with the new challenges. For the United Nations to continue to be an efficient and vital instrument for the international community in this new era of multilateral relations, it will have to open up, innovate, listen to other voices and accept the new political, economic and social realities that have been created and imposed by the globalization process. The reform of the Security Council — an organ that is responding less and less every day to the challenges of the contemporary world — is a goal that has long been pursued, without success. Cape Verde supports the position of the African Union, which recommends that the Council be reformed so as to correct the unjust situation with respect to the African continent. At present Africa does not have the right to even one permanent seat on the Council, even though it meets all the requirements. I conclude, Mr. President, with the conviction that Africa can also provide a valuable contribution to the development of a better world, one without war, where peace is not just a theoretical concept; a world with more freedom, justice and security — in other words, a world with more fraternity and prosperity, in which the well-being of its citizens is effectively provided for.﻿I wish to warmly congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. Rest assured that you have Italy’s full support as you assume your crucial responsibilities in the service of international peace and cooperation. Every day and everywhere, people strive to overcome fear, achieve justice and persevere through hardship and uncertainty to protect their families and livelihoods and to ensure a better future for their children. Governments strive to achieve and preserve peace, justice and prosperity in a world gripped by political tensions, civil wars and a severe economic and financial crisis. In 2011, financial markets showed serious new signs of tension, due primarily to the deterioration of public finances. What we have been experiencing is not a recurrent cyclical imbalance. In the case of the European Union (EU), it is the deepest and worst crisis in its history. Other crises threatened the European project in the past, but each time Europeans found a way to continue down the path on which they embarked upon more than 50 years ago. In his memoirs, Jean Monnet noted that Europe would be built through crises. Indeed, it is by solving those crises that Europeans have realized how closely integrated their interests are and how interdependent their economies. Today, the world has learned how essential a viable Europe is to tackling global economic and security challenges, and how important the euro area is to the recovery of the global economy. Today it is clear that “more Europe” is in the general interest, and not just that of Europeans. We cannot overlook the importance of the measures being taken at the EU level to strengthen governance and fiscal integration, as was underlined by President Van Rompuy. It is also essential that European Governments deliver at the national level. Italy will continue to do its part to further strengthen fiscal sustainability and enhance potential growth. Historic changes are taking place in the Mediterranean region. Italy has stood by the Arab peoples in their quest for justice and democracy. In the past months, we have engaged with the new leaders of those nations. I found in them a deep commitment that inspires hope. Both bilaterally and through the European Union, we are lending concrete support to their new Governments to assist their recovery, set mutually beneficial trade policies and foster inclusive economic development, thereby promoting stability throughout the region. There is also an element of self-interest in that pursuit. Instability around the Mediterranean impacts our own security. Conflicts and social unrest on the southern shore spill over to our own shores. Terrorism finds new avenues to reach Europe. Trafficking in human beings has destabilizing effects on the countries of destination and often results tragedies at sea, which we can no longer accept. The situation in the Sahel is of grave concern and a top priority for Italy. It is a volatile mix of fragile institutions and rampant organized crime and terrorist groups. We cannot let the situation deteriorate any further. Italy, for one, will make its contribution jointly with our partners and the States of the region. The ultimate goals of peace and cooperation will be achieved only if all the countries concerned work together on the basis of mutual respect and a shared sense of purpose. A culture of dialogue must prevail over confrontation. Extremism and intolerance must be isolated and rejected. Rights, dignity and opportunities must be offered to every component and member of our societies, especially minorities and women. Italy is fully committed to implementing such a vision. For us, protecting and promoting human rights is a long-standing domestic commitment as well as a fundamental pillar of our foreign policy. In that vein, we shall continue to pursue the universal abolition of the death penalty, the protection of minorities, the advancement of the status of women and the free and safe expression of religion or belief. We need to cooperate wisely in firmly rejecting the misrepresentation of religions or beliefs as an instrument of disruption and destabilization. To achieve that goal, good laws are always necessary, but they are not always enough. Tolerance must be promoted through educational programmes and consistent grass-roots work, engaging the efforts of both Governments and civil society. I strongly encourage the membership of the Assembly and all relevant international organizations to resolutely pursue such an approach. The Arab Spring has experienced difficulties, yet it has also scored a number of remarkable achievements. Nothing is easy, yet nothing is impossible. But nothing can be achieved without goodwill and good faith, which we will need if we want to put an end to the ongoing massacres and the massive human rights violations in Syria. The regime in Damascus refuses to comply with the resolutions of the Security Council, and it continues to commit indiscriminate violence against civilians. Italy fully supports the mission of the new Joint Special Representative for Syria and strongly urges the Security Council to overcome the stalemate that is preventing effective international action. History will not be lenient in judging those who bear responsibilities. Nor can we underestimate the increasing danger of nuclear proliferation. Italy supports the commitment of the International Atomic Energy Agency to obtaining clarification of the true nature of the Iranian nuclear programme. We urge Iran to fully comply with all the relevant Security Council resolutions. Italy advocates more effective arms control regimes, and looks forward to concrete nuclear disarmament measures as proposed in President Obama’s Prague appeal. Respect for the rule of law is the basic condition for promoting human rights and maintaining international peace and security. In that context, Mr. President, I welcome your proposal of “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means” as the overarching theme for this session of the General Assembly. I am also pleased to announce that Italy is now ready to accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice in accordance with Article 36, paragraph 2, of the Court’s Statute. This is a defining moment for the International Court of Justice and for international jurisdictions in general, since they are the key institutions for interpreting international law and guaranteeing global compliance with its provisions. More and more, effective actions to assure international order and security demand respect for international law. The same holds true for actions to counter new threats, such as piracy, which is particularly troubling given its impact on the world economy and on the lives of seafarers. International efforts to protect sea lanes and fight piracy can be effective only if all nations cooperate in good faith, according to the established rules of international customary law and United Nations conventions, including those protecting the jurisdiction of the f lag State in international waters. The Organization can expect no less from each Member State, and especially from those Members that aim to have a decisive influence on the rules of global governance. Any erosion of the sending State’s exclusive jurisdiction over servicemen on official duty would jeopardize the status of our agents on international missions. Consequently, it would also undermine the sustainability of United Nations peacekeeping missions. By the same token, we must not tolerate any breach of diplomatic missions, whose inviolability must be respected. We firmly condemn any proposition that violence is an acceptable response to speech. Transnational organized crime also requires a collective response grounded in the rule of law and the principle of shared responsibility. With the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Italy has actively contributed to, and co-financed with Colombia, a digest to promote the implementation of the Palermo Convention by illustrating best practices. The digest is a practical tool for law enforcement officials and prosecutors. It will be officially presented next month in Vienna, on the occasion of the sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. The United Nations is called upon to play a key role in conflict prevention, the settlement of disputes and providing assistance for crisis management and nation-building, in cooperation with regional organizations. Despite the current financial juncture, Italy continues to do its part in crisis management, peacekeeping and stabilization missions. Our expertise and resources — both military and civilian — will remain engaged in a number of critical theatres, especially Afghanistan and Lebanon. That commitment constitutes a heavy burden, but one we deem a worthy investment for the sake of the common interest. In that light, helping Somalia to recover its integrity and dignity will remain high on my Government’s agenda. The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) have played a crucial role in changing development cooperation policies and practices. But since they were first agreed upon, the development landscape has changed deeply. New challenges have emerged and other issues and processes have come to the fore. The post-2015 development agenda will therefore have to take those trends into account. It will have to include such important dimensions of development as reducing inequality, fostering credible democracy, promoting human rights, good governance, equitable growth, migration, employment, decent jobs and tackling climate change. We are very pleased with your decision, Mr. President, to constitute a high-level panel to discuss this fundamental issue, and to appoint three important leaders to conduct the international debate. We are confident that the process of defining the pillars of the future development agenda will be as inclusive as possible, while avoiding the top-down assumptions that emerged in 1995. In our view, the post-2015 MDGs will have to be harmonized with the inputs that emerged from the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio de Janeiro (Rio+20). The three dimensions of sustainable development — the social, economic and environmental — will be part of the scenarios we face in the future. We will also have to work within the framework of the new Busan Global Partnership for Effective Development Cooperation. In the area of climate change, sound and balanced management of land and marine resources, involving strengthened trans-boundary cooperation, deserves closer political attention and common application. Some challenges are particularly pressing. Tackling climate change through coordinated emissions-reduction policies is a prerequisite to substantially reducing, and possibly stopping, the serious degradation of planet Earth’s fragile ecosystems, on which our lives depend. In line with our joint strategic objectives to overcome the financial crisis, we attach great importance to innovative sources of financing for development. Italy has helped promote a number of significant initiatives, in particular in the health field. Migrant remittances play a key role in the development of many countries. That process will be facilitated by achieving the commitments of the Group of Eight (G-8) and the Group of 20 to reduce the average global cost of transferring remittances. Food security is a priority for the Italian Government’s development assistance policy. In 2009, under Italy’s presidency, the G-8 adopted the L’Aquila Food Security Initiative, a new and inclusive mechanism that has been joined by more than 40 countries and has funded several food security projects amounting to an estimated $22 billion. We are still paying careful attention to policies aimed at mitigating the effect of agricultural price volatility. The availability of high-quality, healthy and sustainable food for all humankind is the historical and concrete challenge being taken up by Expo 2015 in Milan. The theme “Feeding the planet” is crucial to the global agenda — from the Millennium Development Goals to Rio+20 and its Zero Hunger initiative, as well as the G-8 and G-20 processes — and is particularly relevant to the work of the United Nations system. All States Members of the United Nations have been invited, and so far almost 100 countries and international organizations have confirmed their participation. In conclusion, I wish to respond to the appeal you launched in your opening address. Yes, Italy will make an active contribution to the efforts aimed at revitalizing the General Assembly by enhancing its role and efficiency. Today more than ever, the world needs the authority of the United Nations. The reform of the Security Council is a key element of this agenda. We are very much counting on members’ assistance in making it happen. An effective Security Council is crucial not only to meeting the challenges to peace, but also to creating a better international order. An equitable reform of the Council is a matter of continuing legitimacy, rather than of increasing the national power of select Member States. The principles of accountability, consensus and regional empowerment must continue to inspire our commitment.﻿The rule of law is among the topics before the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly. This is an especially important issue, especially for someone who has had the opportunity to personally experience the lack of it. For many decades, Hungary belonged to the Communist-Socialist bloc. By 1949 the Communist takeover of power had been completed, just four years after the end of the Second World War. The multiparty system had been eliminated. The majority of leaders of political parties established after the war were forced into exile or were imprisoned. I was born 10 years later. I spent my early adult years, and thus the years of my political awakening as well, in a dictatorship. In fact, my two older children were born under that political system. For our generation, just as for that of our parents, our everyday experience was of being deprived of human rights and liberties. Independence? From what, when Soviet troops kept Hungary under occupation? Free elections? How, when political parties were non-existent and, even at late as 1988, it was a crime against the State to form political organizations. Constitutional freedoms, such as the freedom of speech, the right of assembly and the right to practice religion freely, existed only on paper or not even on that. The end of the 1980s and the fall of the Berlin Wall and of the Iron Curtain, brought democratic changes to Hungary as well. It was in the spring of 1990, more than 40 years later, that we could organize free elections again. Preparations for the peaceful transition, and then the post-election years, can be deemed to be a successful period from the perspective of the rule of law. Hungary, however, did not have a new, consolidated Constitution that was not unlike the 1949 Constitution, easily revealed through the number in its title. It was that shortfall that the Hungarian National Assembly rectified in April 2011, when it decided to adopt the new fundamental law of Hungary. What is now the youngest Constitution of Europe incorporates almost all elements of the European Convention on Human Rights, along with the rule-of-law institutions safeguarding the checks and balances established in 1990. As a new element, constitutional constraints compliant with the rule of law have been imposed to curb irresponsible public spending and the reckless increase of State indebtedness. The new Constitution of Hungary provides guarantees for the fulfilment of international legal obligations and for compliance and adherence to the generally accepted rules of international law. It is important to point out that numerous new provisions, which concern the new, so-called fourth generation of basic rights, have been included in the new fundamental law. Article P of the Constitution stipulates that: “All natural resources, especially agricultural land, forests and drinking water supplies, biodiversity — in particular native plant and animal species — and cultural assets shall form part of the nation’s common heritage, and the State and every person shall be obliged to protect, sustain and preserve them for future generations”. Whereas Article XXI sets forth that: “Hungary shall recognise and enforce the right of every person to a healthy environment. A person who causes any damage to the environment shall be obliged to restore it or to bear all costs of restoration as defined by law. “No pollutant waste shall be brought into Hungary for the purpose of dumping”. Environmental protection, the preservation of natural values, the protection of soil, air and water quality — how much time have we spent talking about them recently? Due to the limited time alloted, permit me to highlight only a single issue from the larger set of problems before us, namely, the issue of water and sanitation. It is even more important to mention it here because, as a result of our common decision, nex year has been designated as the International Year of Water Cooperation. We can truly appreciate the adequate quantity and quality of water if we experience what it means to be deprived of it, whatever the reason — pollution, overconsumption or environmental, changes. During recent years, a great variety of studies have been published about our irresponsible behaviour, about the short-sighted, and may I say, foolish, attitude with which we are polluting our waters. Allow me to cite just a few findings from these documents. Ninety per cent of all communal wastewater and 70 per cent of industrial wastewater in countries of the developing world is discharged into rivers without any treatment whatsoever. The chemical revolution of the era following the Second World War also has had seriously adverse implications on the environment. Industry nowadays has been using about 12,000 different types of toxic chemicals, while a single drop of crude oil can render 25 litres of drinking water non-potable. Manufacturing a single vehicle requires 148,000 1itres of industrial water. The toilet culture of nearly 2 billion people is still not adequate today. What are the consequences? Polluted and toxic lakes, lifeless streams of water reminiscent of rivers only by their names. Instead, they are stinking industrial canals. The consequences are that there is not enough water around to meet the everyday needs of human consumption. Today, more than 1 billion people do not have access to clean, potable water. Another consequence, according to a 2009 UNICEF study, is that serious diseases, spread by polluted water and the lack sanitation, have been killing young children at a pace equivalent to that of a Boeing 747 airplane packed with young children crashing every four hours. I could continue to list dramatic examples and serious consequences of the lack of sanitation, but let us ask ourselves the question: if everything were all right with wastewater management, would it mean that everything was also all right with respect to our water management, water treatment and protection of our water basins? Unfortunately, the answer is no. Water management today requires international cooperation. It is indispensable. Half of the Earth’s population lives in so-called shared, or joint, water catchment areas. The same river provides the water supplies for two, three or more countries. Cooperation between such countries is a daily obligation. Absence of such cooperation could lead to supply, social, health or even war-related tensions. Nearly 1.5 billion people live in river basins, where water usage is larger than the minimum extent of water replenishment, which leads to the exhaustion of water reserves. At least two thirds of European cities with a population of 100,000 or more people are using their water resources faster than they can be replenished. It is true that the standards are set high in agriculture, especially if the agricultural sector wishes to produce adequate supplies of food for a further 2.5 billion people by 2050. That is especially true if we consider that currently it takes about 140 1itres of water to produce one cupful of coffee or about 15,000 1itres for 1 kilogram of beef. We have been aware of these figures for years. But what is knowledge worth if we do not put it to use? Why do we wait for nature to remind us again and again of our grave irresponsibility? Hungary assesses the issue of water and sanitation to be one of the most important questions of the twenty-first century. During recent years, we have been active participants in the friends of water working group, created under the auspices of the United Nations. I think we will have ample work waiting for us during the coming years as well. We are ready and willing to share our knowledge and experience. We are also looking forward to welcoming everyone interested to the conference on water and sanitation to be organized in Budapest next autumn.﻿In a complex world, it is smart economics and also smart politics to focus on prevention rather than cure. This holds true whether we address the global economic crisis, sustainable development and poverty reduction, conflicts like the one in Syria, or the arms trade and disarmament. In that context, the inclusion of women in political decision-making processes is not only the right thing to do, it is one of the most powerful drivers for positive change. Our natural resources are increasingly under pressure. By 2030, the world will need 50 per cent more food, 45 per cent more energy and 30 per cent more water. Thus, we must chart a new course for our common future and develop a new paradigm for economic growth and development that will make it possible to deal with those challenges and to create opportunities for future generations. In June, at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), we made some progress, laying down the foundations for the transformative process we need to pursue. But the house still has to be built, and the General Assembly must provide some of the important building blocks to do this. Defining sustainable development goals as part of the overall post-2015 international development framework, establishing the new high-level political forum, and upgrading the United Nations Environment Programme are all key parts of the agenda before us. Denmark strongly supports the Secretary-General’s Sustainable Energy for All initiative, launched in November 2011, and remains committed to its objectives. Access to sustainable energy, improved energy efficiency and increased use of renewable energy are all necessary conditions for achieving long-term sustainable development. At Rio+20, a green economy was finally recognized as one of the important tools available for achieving sustainable development. We need to work in close partnership with both the private sector and civil society, if we are to succeed in transforming the global economy. The Danish Government, in partnership with the Governments of Mexico and Republic of Korea, last year created a public-private partnership among progressive Governments, global corporations, financial institutions and international organizations, including the United Nations, called the Global Green Growth Forum. At the second Forum meeting a week from now, in Copenhagen, the focus will be on resource efficiency and growth, reinforcing the need to decouple economic growth from unsustainable environmental pressures and to refocus efforts on the creation of decent jobs. While making the last push for achieving the Millennium Development Goals in 2015, we will start preparing the post-2015 international development framework and embark on the discussion on how to best formulate new and more ambitious goals beyond 2015. As stated, the sustainable development goals should be an integrated part of this exercise. Denmark strongly supports the promotion of human rights as a means to development, rights being understood as indivisible and interdependent. Such a rights-based approach is about placing people — men and women — at the centre and in charge of their own development. And let me add, in the case of a woman, this also means the right to decide over her own body. That is why Denmark welcomes today’s launch of the high-level task force for the International Conference on Population and Development. Important parts of the rights-based approach are access to information, involvement in decision-making and strengthening the voice of civil society. Four decades ago, the United Nations set a target for developed countries to increase their official development assistance to 0.7 per cent of their gross national income. Every year since 1978 Denmark has surpassed the target, and our development assistance will continue to increase over the years to come. We call on other donors and potential donors, including emerging economies, to increase their assistance as well. We see a great need for support to fragile States like Somalia, South Sudan, Yemen, Afghanistan and Mali, where fragility and conflict hamper development and poverty reduction and may provide a breeding ground for all kinds of instability. We see positive signs in those countries, but there are still many challenges, and we therefore require strong and continuous political commitment, both within the countries themselves and on the part of the international community, in order to succeed. We in the international community need to take a closer look inside our toolbox and find the right mix of development assistance and security policy response, including ways of addressing terrorism and in some cases piracy. In conflict-affected and fragile countries, there is a need to understand that without security there can be no development and that without development there can be no security. Denmark actively participates in promoting the New Deal for Engagement in Fragile States, and we are currently co-chairing the International Dialogue on Peacebuilding and State-building. A peaceful and prosperous development in fragile States stands at the heart of Danish development policy, most recently exemplified in the Sahel region. Denmark shares the ambition of the International Dialogue to have peacebuilding and statebuilding goals firmly reflected in the post-2015 international development framework. We must also use international cooperation to reduce the level of conflicts and to set clear rules for all to abide by. Unregulated and irresponsible trade of conventional weapons is often the direct cause of unbearable human suffering. It further destabilizes weak and fragile States and is a hindrance to development. There is an urgent need for a universal and legally binding arms trade treaty, and, together with Germany, Denmark has encouraged the Secretary- General to continue his strong personal engagement with respect to the convening of a second arms trade treaty conference early next year. Now is the time to act, and we call upon the members of the Assembly to successfully conclude negotiations on a treaty and to do so without delay. Let me use this occasion to once again call on the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, and more particularly on Iran, to comply with international law and relevant Security Council resolutions. It is in Iran’s own interest to take concrete steps to build international confidence in the exclusively peaceful nature of its nuclear programme. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is a cornerstone of international cooperation on disarmament and non-proliferation. In this context, Denmark actively supports the work of the Finnish facilitator to organize a conference on the Middle East as a zone free of weapons and materials of mass destruction. For Denmark and the European Union, the rule of law is critical to international peace and security, human rights and development. It is a fundamental principle of good governance, whereby the State is accountable to its citizens and ensures their human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as their participatory rights. We therefore welcome the outcome of last week’s High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels (resolution 67/1) and the commitments made by Member States. Denmark also looks forward to an effective follow-up to the High-level Meeting. International agreement on the responsibility to protect at the 2005 World Summit was a clear statement by the international community that the atrocities and large-scale tragedies of the last century must not be repeated in the twenty-first century. The global network of national focal points on the responsibility to protect — an initiative launched by the Governments of Denmark and Ghana, Costa Rica and Australia — is an approach to encourage and assist States in developing their national capacities and mechanisms for the prevention of mass atrocity crimes. We call on all States to appoint national focal points and to join the network, thereby demonstrating their commitment to decisive and timely prevention and response. Even as I speak, we are witnessing in Syria a Government that is not living up to its moral and political obligations. Instead, it pursues a violent path of trying to quell the cry for freedom, for democratic reforms and for human rights. Despite several promises made to the international community during the last year, the Al-Assad regime has not stopped the violence. Instead we have only heard the sound of machine guns, heavy weapons and airplanes firing away at civilians. Since I stood here at this rostrum a year ago (see A/66/PV.29), the situation has only deteriorated. Last year about 2,600 people in Syria had died in the conflict. Now, more than 20,000 people have suffered that fate. The Syrian people are f leeing from the shooting spree, and a quarter of a million of them are now refugees in neighbouring countries. More than a million people inside Syria are in need of humanitarian assistance. We condemn the brutal violence and massacres of civilians in the strongest terms. The time has come to stop the bloodshed and the suffering of the Syrian people. We cannot look away while the increasing sectarian violence spirals out of control, the humanitarian emergency escalates and the crisis spills over borders. President Al-Assad has lost all legitimacy and must step aside to allow for a peaceful and democratic transition. At the same time, those responsible for gross human rights violations must be brought to justice. We commend the very valuable work done by the Human Rights Council’s Commission of Inquiry on Syria. We note in particular that the Commission has stated that it is likely that crimes against humanity have been committed by the Syrian regime. The international community must act on that information. Denmark calls on the Security Council to refer the case of Syria and the serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the country to the International Criminal Court. We urge the Security Council to unite and agree on strong measures, including comprehensive sanctions, to enforce the six-point plan endorsed by the Council. We cannot afford to continue waiting for a change of policy on the part of the regime, which it shows no sign of ever making. The Syrian people need action. At the same time, we strongly encourage the Syrian opposition groups to agree on a set of shared principles for working towards an inclusive, orderly and peaceful transition in Syria to a future free of Al-Assad and his brutal regime. While thanking former Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his valuable contribution to finding a lasting solution to the conflict, we now put our trust in the new Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, and in his efforts at reaching a political solution. The negative developments in Syria stand in sharp contrast to the situation in other countries that have been affected by the Arab winds of change. Calls for reforms, economic justice, democracy and respect for human rights have been heard, and in countries like Tunisia, Morocco, Egypt and Libya things are moving, and generally in the right direction. But there are also signs that progress is not universal, for example, the recent decision by the Bahraini Court of Cassation to uphold the convictions of 20 human rights activists, including a Danish national. Calling for reforms is not a crime, as was rightly pointed out by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Last month’s election of the new Prime Minister in Libya by a democratically elected parliament is a concrete example of progress, which makes it all the more difficult to comprehend the terrible and tragic attack on the United States Consulate in Benghazi, which we have strongly condemned. It was a sobering reminder of the serious challenges that still persist in countries in transition toward democracy. Democracy does not happen overnight. It takes years to develop, and attacks by extremists should not be allowed to derail a process that the majority of the people have fought so hard for. We stand firm by our commitments to Libya, and we stand firm in there being no justification for such attacks — none whatsoever. It has been clear since the beginning of the Arab Spring that developments in the region make the Middle East peace process and a negotiated solution even more urgent and important. A year ago, the Quartet in its 23 September 2011 statement (SG/2178) called for a peace agreement to be signed no later than the end of 2012. Regrettably, we face a reality which does not augur well for that to happen. As things develop on the ground, the prospects for a two-State solution, providing for two independent, democratic, contiguous, sovereign and viable States living side by side in peace and security, are diminishing, not increasing. As we approach the twentieth anniversary of the Oslo Agreement, it is indeed time to reach a final agreement. The world is undergoing profound changes. Current and new challenges call for international resolve and multilateral solutions. They call for strategic approaches, focusing on prevention and early action to dismantle problems, rather than on belated responses and interventions to deal with them when it is too late, too inefficient and much more costly. And they call for the United Nations, the strength of which lies in its unique legitimacy, to stand up and take the lead in addressing global challenges. The United Nations can make a real difference for the 7 billion people living on this planet. It is up to all of us to ensure that it does﻿I would like to begin today by telling the Assembly about an American named Chris Stevens. Chris was born in a town called Grass Valley, California, the son of a lawyer and a musician. As a young man, Chris joined the Peace Corps and taught English in Morocco, and he came to love and respect the people of North Africa and the Middle East. He would carry that commitment throughout his life. As a diplomat, he worked from Egypt to Syria, from Saudi Arabia to Libya. He was known for walking the streets of the cities where he worked, tasting the local food, meeting as many people as he could, speaking Arabic, listening with a broad smile. Chris went to Benghazi, arriving on a cargo ship, in the early days of the Libyan revolution. As America’s representative, he helped the Libyan people as they coped with violent conflict, cared for the wounded and crafted a vision for the future in which the rights of all Libyans would be respected. After the revolution, he supported the birth of a new democracy as Libyans held elections and built new institutions and began to move forward after decades of dictatorship. Chris Stevens loved his work. He took pride in the country he served, and he saw dignity in the people that he met. Two weeks ago, he travelled to Benghazi to review plans to establish a new cultural center and modernize a hospital. That is when America’s compound came under attack. Along with three of his colleagues, Chris was killed in the city that he had helped to save. He was 52 years old. I tell this story because Chris Stevens embodied the best of America. Like his fellow Foreign Service officers, he built bridges across oceans and cultures and was deeply invested in the international cooperation that the United Nations represents. He acted with humility, but he also stood up for a set of principles, a belief that individuals should be free to determine their own destiny and live with liberty, dignity, justice and opportunity. The attacks on the American civilians in Benghazi were attacks on America. We are grateful for the assistance we received from the Libyan Government and from the Libyan people. There should be no doubt that we will be relentless in tracking down the killers and bringing them to justice. I also appreciate that, in recent days, the leaders of other countries in the region — including Egypt, Tunisia and Yemen — have taken steps to secure our diplomatic facilities and called for calm. So have religious authorities around the globe. But it should be understood that the attacks of the last two weeks are not simply an assault on America. They are also an assault on the very ideals upon which the United Nations was founded — the notion that people can resolve their differences peacefully; that diplomacy can take the place of war, and that, in an interdependent world, all of us have a stake in working towards greater opportunity and security for our citizens. If we are serious about upholding those ideals, it will not be enough to put more guards in front of an Embassy or to put out statements of regret and wait for the outrage to pass. If we are serious about those ideals, we must speak honestly about the deeper causes of the crisis, because we face a choice between the forces that would drive us apart and the hopes we hold in common. Today, we must affirm that our future will be determined by people like Chris Stevens, and not by his killers. Today, we must declare that such violence and intolerance has no place among our United Nations. It has been less than two years since a vendor in Tunisia set himself on fire to protest the oppressive corruption in his country and sparked what became known as the Arab Spring. Since then, the world has been captivated by the transformation that has taken place, and the United States has supported the forces of change. We were inspired by the Tunisian protests that toppled a dictator, because we recognized our own beliefs in the aspirations of the men and women who took to the streets. We supported change in Egypt, because our support for democracy ultimately put us on the side of the people. We welcomed a transition of leadership in Yemen, because the interests of the people were no longer being served by a corrupt status quo. We intervened in Libya alongside a broad coalition and with the mandate of the United Nations Security Council, because we had the ability to stop the slaughter of innocents and because we believed that the aspirations of the people were more powerful than a tyrant. And as we meet here, we again declare that the regime of Bashar Al-Assad must come to an end, so that the suffering of the Syrian people can stop and a new dawn can begin. We have taken those positions because we believe that freedom and self-determination are not unique to one culture. Those values are not simply American values or Western values — they are universal values. And even as there will be huge challenges that come with a transition to democracy, I am convinced that, ultimately, Government of the people, by the people and for the people is more likely to bring about the stability, prosperity and individual opportunity that serve as the basis for peace in our world. So, let us remember that this is a season of progress. For the first time in decades, Tunisians, Egyptians and Libyans voted for new leaders in elections that were credible, competitive and fair. That democratic spirit has not been restricted to the Arab world. Over the past year, we have seen peaceful transitions of power in Malawi and Senegal and a new President in Somalia. In Burma, a President has freed political prisoners and opened a closed society, a courageous dissident has been elected to Parliament, and people look forward to further reform. Around the globe, people are making their voices heard, insisting on their innate dignity and the right to determine their future. And yet the turmoil of recent weeks reminds us that the path to democracy does not end with the casting of a ballot. Nelson Mandela once said, “To be free is not merely to cast off one’s chains, but to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others”. True democracy demands that citizens cannot be thrown in jail because of what they believe and that businesses can be opened without paying a bribe. It depends on the freedom of citizens to speak their minds and assemble without fear and on the rule of law and due process, which guarantee the rights of all people. In other words, true democracy — real freedom — is hard work. Those in power have to resist the temptation to crack down on dissidents. In hard economic times, countries may be tempted to rally the people around perceived enemies at home and abroad, rather than focusing on the painstaking work of reform. Moreover, there will always be those who reject human progress — dictators who cling to power, corrupt interests that depend upon the status quo, and extremists who fan the flames of hate and division. From Northern Ireland to South Asia, from Africa to the Americas, from the Balkans to the Pacific Rim, we have witnessed convulsions that can accompany transitions to a new political order. At times, the conflicts arise along the fault lines of race or tribe, and often they arise from the difficulties of reconciling tradition and faith with the diversity and interdependence of the modern world. In every country, there are those who find different religious beliefs threatening; in every culture, those who love freedom for themselves must ask themselves how much they are willing to tolerate freedom for others. That is what we saw play out in the last two weeks, as a crude and disgusting video sparked outrage throughout the Muslim world. Now, I have made it clear that the United States Government had nothing to do with that video, and I believe its message must be rejected by all who respect our common humanity. It is an insult not only to Muslims, but to America as well, for as the city outside these walls makes clear, we are a country that has welcomed people of every race and every faith. We are home to Muslims, who worship across our country. We not only respect the freedom of religion, we have laws that protect individuals from being harmed because of how they look or what they believe. We understand why people take offence at that video, because millions of our citizens are among those people. I know there are some who ask why we do not just ban such a video. And the answer is enshrined in our laws; our Constitution protects the right to practice free speech. Here in the United States, countless publications provoke offence. Like me, the majority of Americans are Christian, and yet we do not ban blasphemy against our most sacred beliefs. As President of our country and Commander-in-Chief of our military, I accept that people are going to call me awful things every day, and I will always defend their right to do so. Americans have fought and died around the globe to protect the right of all people to express their views, even views that we profoundly disagree with. We do not do so because we support hateful speech, but because our founders understood that without such protections, the capacity of individuals to express their own views and practise their own faith may be threatened. We do so because in a diverse society, efforts to restrict speech can quickly become a tool to silence critics and oppress minorities. We do so because, given the power of faith in our lives and the passion that religious differences can inflame, the strongest weapon against hateful speech is not repression; it is more speech — the voices of tolerance that rally against bigotry and blasphemy, and lift up the values of understanding and mutual respect. I know that not all countries in this body share that particular understanding of the protection of free speech. We recognize that. But in 2012, at a time when anyone with a cell phone can spread offensive views around the world with the click of a button, the notion that we can control the f low of information is obsolete. The question then is how do we respond? And on this we must agree: there is no speech that justifies mindless violence. There are no words that excuse the killing of innocents. There is no video that justifies an attack on an embassy. There is no slander that provides an excuse for people to burn a restaurant in Lebanon, or destroy a school in Tunis, or cause death and destruction in Pakistan. In our modern world with modern technologies, for us to respond in that way to hateful speech empowers any individual who engages in such speech to create chaos around the world. We empower the worst of us if that is how we respond. More broadly, the events of the past two weeks also speak to the need for all of us to honestly address the tensions between the West and the Arab world, which is moving towards democracy. Now, let me be clear: just as we cannot solve every problem in the world, the United States has not and will not seek to dictate the outcome of democratic transitions abroad. We do not expect other nations to agree with us on every issue, nor do we assume that the violence of the past weeks or the hateful speech of some individuals represents the views of the overwhelming majority of Muslims, any more than the views of the people who produced that video represent those of Americans. However, I do believe that it is the obligation of all leaders in all countries to speak out forcefully against violence and extremism. It is time to marginalize those who, even when not directly resorting to violence, use hatred of America, or the West, or Israel, as the central organizing principle of politics. For that only gives cover, and sometimes provides an excuse, for those who do resort to violence. That brand of politics, one that pits East against West, and South against North, Muslims against Christians and Hindus and Jews, cannot deliver on the promise of freedom. To young people, it offers only false hope. Burning an American f lag does nothing to provide a child with an education. Smashing apart a restaurant does not fill an empty stomach. Attacking an embassy will not create a single job. That brand of politics only makes it harder to achieve what we must do together, namely, to educate our children and create the opportunities that they deserve; protect human rights and extend democracy’s promise. It should be understood that America will never retreat from the world. We will bring to justice those who harm our citizens and our friends, and we will stand with our allies. We are willing to partner with countries around the world to deepen ties of trade and investment, science and technology, energy and development — all efforts that can spark economic growth for all our peoples and stabilize democratic change. But such efforts depend on a spirit of mutual interest and mutual respect. No Government or company, no school or non-governmental organization will be confident working in a country where its people are endangered. For partnerships to be effective, our citizens must be secure and our efforts must be welcomed. A politics based only on anger — one based on dividing the world between us and them — not only sets back international cooperation, it ultimately undermines those who tolerate it. All of us have an interest in standing up to those forces. Let us remember that Muslims have suffered the most at the hands of extremism. On the same day that our civilians were killed in Benghazi, a Turkish police officer was murdered in Istanbul only days before his wedding; more than 10 Yemenis were killed in a car bomb in Sana’a; several Afghan children were mourned by their parents just days after they were killed by a suicide bomber in Kabul. The impulse towards intolerance and violence may initially be focused on the West, but over time it cannot be contained. The same impulses towards extremism are used to justify war between Sunni and Shia, between tribes and clans. It leads not to strength and prosperity but to chaos. In less than two years, we have seen largely peaceful protests bring more change to Muslim-majority countries than a decade of violence. And extremists understand this. Because they have nothing to offer to improve the lives of people, violence is their only way to stay relevant. They do not build; they only destroy. It is time to leave the call to violence and the politics of division behind. On so many issues, we face a choice between the promise of the future or the prisons of the past. And we cannot afford to get it wrong. We must seize this moment. And America stands ready to work with all who are willing to embrace a better future. The future must not belong to those who target Coptic Christians in Egypt; it must be claimed by those in Tahrir Square who chanted, “Muslims, Christians, we are one.” The future must not belong to those who bully women; it must be shaped by girls who go to school, and those who stand for a world where our daughters can live their dreams just like our sons. The future must not belong to those corrupt few who steal a country’s resources; it must be won by the students and entrepreneurs, the workers and business owners who seek a broader prosperity for all people. Those are the women and men that America stands with; theirs is the vision we will support. The future must not belong to those who slander the Prophet of Islam. But to be credible, those who condemn that slander must also condemn the hate we see in the images of Jesus Christ that are desecrated, or churches that are destroyed, or the Holocaust that is denied. Let us condemn incitement against Sufi Muslims and Shia pilgrims. It is time to heed the words of Gandhi: “Intolerance is itself a form of violence and an obstacle to the growth of a true democratic spirit”. Together we must work towards a world where we are strengthened by our differences, not defined by them. That is what America embodies; that is the vision that we will support. Among Israelis and Palestinians, the future must not belong to those who turn their backs on the prospect of peace. Let us leave behind those who thrive on conflict, those who reject the right of Israel to exist. The road is hard, but the destination is clear: a secure, Jewish State of Israel and an independent, prosperous Palestine. Understanding that such a peace must come through a just agreement between the parties, America will walk alongside all who are prepared to make that journey. In Syria, the future must not belong to a dictator who massacres his people. If there is a cause that cries out for protest in the world today, peaceful protest, it is a regime that tortures children and shoots rockets at apartment buildings. We must remain engaged to ensure that what began with citizens demanding their rights does not end in a cycle of sectarian violence. Together, we must stand with those Syrians who believe in a different vision: a Syria that is united and inclusive, where children do not need to fear their own Government and all Syrians have a say in how they are governed, Sunnis and Alawites, Kurds and Christians. That is what America stands for. That is the outcome that we will work for, with sanctions and consequences for those who persecute, and assistance and support for those who work for this common good, because we believe that the Syrians who embrace this vision will have the strength and the legitimacy to lead. In Iran, we see where the path of a violent and unaccountable ideology leads. The Iranian people have a remarkable and ancient history, and many Iranians wish to enjoy peace and prosperity alongside their neighbours. But just as it restricts the rights of its own people, the Iranian Government continues to prop up a dictator in Damascus and supports terrorist groups abroad. Time and again, it has failed to take the opportunity to demonstrate that its nuclear programme is peaceful and to meet its obligations to the United Nations. So let me be clear. America wants to resolve this issue through diplomacy, and we believe that there is still time and space to do so. But that time is not unlimited. We respect the right of nations to access peaceful nuclear power, but one of the purposes of the United Nations is to see that we harness that power for peace. Make no mistake: a nuclear-armed Iran is not a challenge that can be contained. It would threaten the elimination of Israel, the security of Gulf nations and the stability of the global economy. It risks triggering a nuclear-arms race in the region and the unravelling of the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. That is why a coalition of countries is holding the Iranian Government accountable, and that is why the United States will do what we must to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. We know from painful experience that the path to security and prosperity does not lie outside the boundaries of international law and respect for human rights. That is why this institution was established, from the rubble of conflict. That is why liberty triumphed over tyranny in the cold war, and that is the lesson of the last two decades as well. History shows that peace and progress come to those who make the right choices. Nations in every part of the world have travelled this difficult path. Europe, the bloodiest battlefield of the twentieth century, is united, free and at peace. From Brazil to South Africa, from Turkey to South Korea, from India to Indonesia, people of different races, religions and traditions have lifted millions out of poverty, while respecting the rights of their citizens and meeting their responsibilities as nations. It is because of the progress that I have witnessed in my own lifetime, the progress that I have witnessed after nearly four years as President, that I remain ever hopeful about the world that we live in. The war in Iraq is over. American troops have come home. We have begun a transition in Afghanistan, and America and our allies will end our war on schedule in 2014. Al-Qaida has been weakened, and Osama bin Laden is no more. Nations have come together to lock down nuclear materials, and America and Russia are reducing our arsenals. We have seen hard choices made, from Naypyidaw to Cairo to Abidjan, to put more power in the hands of citizens. At a time of economic challenge, the world has come together to broaden prosperity. Through the Group of 20, we have partnered with emerging countries to keep the world on the path of recovery. America has pursued a development agenda that fuels growth and breaks dependency, and has worked with African leaders to help them feed their nations. New partnerships have been forged to combat corruption and promote government that is open and transparent, and new commitments have been made through the Equal Futures Partnership to ensure that women and girls can fully participate in politics and pursue opportunity. Later today, I will discuss our efforts to combat the scourge of human trafficking. All those things give me hope. But what gives me the most hope is not the actions taken by us, not the actions of leaders; it is the people that I have seen — the American troops who have risked their lives and sacrificed their limbs for strangers half a world away, the students in Jakarta or Seoul who are eager to use their knowledge to benefit mankind, the faces in a square in Prague or a parliament in Ghana who see democracy giving voice to their aspirations, the young people in the favelas of Rio and the schools of Mumbai whose eyes shine with promise. Those men, women, and children of every race and every faith remind me that for every angry mob that gets shown on television, there are billions around the world who share similar hopes and dreams. They tell us that there is a common heartbeat to humanity. So much attention in our world turns to what divides us. That is what we see on the news. That is what consumes our political debates. But when you strip it all away, people everywhere long for the freedom to determine their destiny; the dignity that comes with work; the comfort that comes with faith; and the justice that exists when Governments serve their people and not the other way around. The United States of America will always stand up for these aspirations, for our own people and for people all across the world. That was our founding purpose. That is what our history shows. That is what Chris Stevens worked for throughout his life. I promise you this: long after the killers are brought to justice, Chris Stevens’s legacy will live on in the lives that he touched, in the tens of thousands who marched against violence through the streets of Benghazi; in the Libyans who changed their Facebook photo to one of Chris; in the signs that read simply, “Chris Stevens was a friend to all Libyans”. They should give us hope. They should remind us that so long as we work for it justice will be done, that history is on our side and that a rising tide of liberty will never be reversed. ﻿It gives me great pleasure to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić and his friendly country on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its current session. I wish him every success in his task. I would like to express my sincere appreciation to the former President of the General Assembly, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, and the brotherly State of Qatar for their outstanding stewardship of the previous session. I would also like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General for striving tirelessly to preserve the role of the Organization and enhance its effectiveness. I assure him of Egypt’s support in all efforts extended for that purpose. My presence here today to address the General Assembly has multiple significance. I am the first Egyptian civilian President elected democratically and freely, following a great peaceful revolution hailed by the entire world. The revolution enjoyed genuine legitimacy thanks to the efforts and will of all Egyptians, inside and outside of Egypt, and by the grace of God. Today, every Egyptian shares a sense of self-confidence that allows each of them to claim a higher moral and cultural ground. We have taken several effective steps on the road towards establishing the modern State aspired to by all Egyptians — one that is in tune with the present, based on the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights, a constitutional State that will not compromise the values firmly embedded in the souls of all Egyptians, a State that seeks justice, truth, freedom, dignity and social justice. The Egyptian revolution that was founded on the legitimacy that I represent before the Assembly today was not the product of a f leeting moment, or a brief uprising. Nor was it the product of the winds of change of a certain spring or autumn. Rather, that revolution, and all the ones preceding it and following it in the region, were triggered by the long-term struggle of indigenous national movements seeking a life of pride and dignity for all citizens. It therefore reflects the wisdom of history and is a clear warning to those attempting to put their interests before those of their peoples. We are therefore striving to realize a new vision of Egypt that will serve as a programme of action for the world and that will guide our cooperation with the international community in a spirit of equality and mutual respect through the promotion of non-intervention in the affairs of States and the implementation of international principles, agreements and instruments. Today we reiterate our commitment, particularly to the Charter of the United Nations, which Egypt took part in drafting. From that perspective, we continue efforts to resolve problems and address their root causes, without relinquishing the principles of law or well-established values that, if compromised, could lead to grave international consequences if the rational and sincere among us choose not to pay heed. The first issue that the global community must exert all efforts to resolve, on the basis of justice and dignity, is the Palestinian cause. Many decades have passed since the Palestinian people expressed their desire to regain their full rights and build their independent State, with Jerusalem as its capital. Despite the continued struggle of the people via all legitimate means to attain their rights, and despite the acceptance by their representatives of the resolutions adopted by the international community as a basis for resolving problems, this issue of international legitimacy has to date, unfortunately, remained without a resolution to achieve the hopes and aspirations of the Palestinian people. And the resolutions agreed on the issue remain far from implementation. The fruits of dignity and freedom must not remain out of reach of the brotherly Palestinian people. It is shameful that the free world has accepted, without regard to the justifications provided, the continued denial, by a member of the international community, of the rights of a nation that, for decades, has longed for independence. It is also disgraceful that settlement activities have continued in the Palestinian territories, along with the delay in implementing decisions of international legitimacy. Proceeding from the perspective of defending truth, freedom and dignity, and from my duty to support our Palestinian brothers and sisters, I place the international community face to face with its obligatory responsibilities requiring the achievement of a just and comprehensive peace, an end to all forms of occupation of Arab land and the implementation of relevant international resolutions. I call for immediate and significant measures to put an end to occupation, settlement activities and any alteration to the identity of occupied Jerusalem. I call for peace that will establish a sovereign Palestinian State and achieve the security and stability long sought by the peoples of the region. On the same basis, I assure the Assembly of Egypt’s full support of any course of action that Palestine decides to follow in the United Nations. I call upon all Member States, just as they have supported the revolutions of the Arab peoples, to extend their support to the Palestinians and their endeavour to recover the full and legitimate rights of a people struggling to regain its freedom and establish an independent State of Palestine, based on the inalienable rights of the Palestinians. We are determined to work to pursue all efforts of the Palestinian people, in support of them and side by side until they freely regain all rights for all segments and communities of the population. From this rostrum and at this eminent gathering, I must address the issue that weighs heavily upon all of us, namely, the bloodshed and the human tragedy in Syria. The bloodshed must be halted immediately. That is our first concern. The blood being shed in the land of beloved Syria is far too valuable to continue to lose day and night. The brotherly Syrian people, who are dear to the hearts of every Egyptian, deserve to hope for a future of freedom and dignity. That is the essence of the initiative that I proposed in the Holy City of Mecca during the recent month of Ramadan, and which I have reiterated on subsequent occasions. It aims to avoid the worst; to check the continued suffering of the Syrian people and the devolvement of the conflict into a full scale civil war — God forbid — with concomitant negative effects extending beyond Syria and its immediate neighbours. Egypt, along with the three other countries involved in our initiative, has held meetings that manifested many areas of commonalities. We will continue to work to put an end to the suffering of the Syrian people and provide them with an opportunity to choose freely the regime that best represents them. After the current regime comes to an end — the regime that is killing its own people day and night — the Syrian people will choose, by their own free will, a regime that represents them and that places Syria in its proper position among democratic countries contributing to the common march of the Arab people based on its solid, legitimate, regional and international role. I would like to emphasize here that the initiative is open to all. It is not just the purview of its four starting parties, but is open to all who wish to positively contribute to resolving the Syrian crisis and suffering, that we are all responsible for. All of us, the world over, must actively endeavour to put an end to the tragedy. It is the tragedy of the age, and our duty is to end it. Egypt is committed to continuing its sincere efforts to put an end to the catastrophe in Syria under an Arab, regional and international framework that preserves the unity of that brotherly State. It would involve all factions of the Syrian people without ethnic, religious or gender discrimination and would spare Syria the danger of foreign military intervention, which we oppose. Egypt is also committed to supporting the mission of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria, and to continuing the current efforts aimed at unifying the Syrian opposition and encouraging it to propose a comprehensive unified vision of an organized democratic transfer of power by measures that preserve the rights of all constituencies in Syria, and maintain their essential positions in the new Syria — like the new Egypt. I cannot fail to reiterate Egypt’s commitment to working with the other Arab countries to ensure that the Arab nation reclaims its rightful position in the world. That is an integral component of Egypt’s vision of national security and of the larger homeland extending from the Arab Gulf to the Atlantic Ocean — an area that thrives with opportunities for cooperation and constructive engagement with the entire world. Egypt also believes that the extremely valuable contribution of the Arab nation within the wider Islamic sphere is of vital necessity in promoting joint action within the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). Egypt will make every effort to ensure that the next OIC conference, to be held early next year in Egypt, will strengthen mutual understanding between Islamic countries and the rest of the world and set in motion the principles of the dialogue among civilizations, by eliminating the causes of misunderstandings used by fanatics on both sides to prove, wrongly, that differences among people are great and to achieve political goals completely unrelated to the noble ideals of religions, human values or ethics. Today more than ever, our brothers and sisters in the Sudan need the Assembly’s support. The Sudan is seeking to achieve stability and development and is working to build sound and ideal relations with South Sudan. I believe that the nascent State, together with the Sudan, is ready to become a centre of cooperation between the Arab world and African countries. The Sudan has made great sacrifices in its quest for peace and stability. It has committed itself to the implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement. It was also the first country to recognize the nascent State of South Sudan. But let me be frank: it has not received the support it deserves. It is now high time for international efforts to rally in support of the Sudan and to work on settling differences between the Sudan and its neighbour to the south in order to resolve all outstanding issues. An early success of the brotherly Somali people during the difficult transitional phase was to elect His Excellency Mr. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud as President, which is a positive step towards unity and stability after a very difficult period. I call upon the United Nations to continue to support the Somali Government’s efforts to fend off those seeking to hinder its efforts to achieve stability, reconstruct State institutions and realize the aspirations of the Somali people for a better future. The principles of justice and right are linked to achieving security and stability in the world, particularly in the Middle East. Over many long years, some have wrongfully sought to maintain stability through oppression and tyranny. Some of us have, alas, applauded their bad deeds. But now that the peoples of the region have regained their freedom, they will neither tolerate, nor permit, being deprived of their rights, by either their own leaders or outside forces. The will of the people, especially in our region, no longer accepts the continued non-accession of any country to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the non-application of the safeguards regime to that country’s nuclear facilities, especially if such action is coupled with irresponsible policies or arbitrary threats. In that regard, the international community’s acceptance of the principle of pre-emption or attempts to legitimize it represents a serious matter that must be firmly confronted to avoid any tendency to promote the law of the jungle. Cognizant of the danger that the status quo represents to the security of our important region, with its natural resources and trade corridors, Egypt stresses the necessity of mobilizing international efforts to convene the special conference on declaring the Middle East a nuclear-weapon-free zone that is also free of other weapons of mass destruction, before the end of the current year, with the participation of all concerned parties, without exception. I should like to say very clearly that the only solution is to eliminate all nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction. There is no alternative. At the same time, we also emphasize the right of all countries of the region and of the world, including Egypt, of course, to the peaceful use of nuclear energy within the framework of the NPT, with a commitment to honour their obligations in that respect and provide the necessary guarantees to the countries of the region, so as to avoid any doubt surrounding their peaceful nuclear programmes. In our view, the concepts of justice, truth and dignity form the basis of the framework for governing international relations. A review of international relations would undoubtedly reveal the extent of the injustice that has been inf licted upon the African continent. I do not think it necessary to enumerate all the previous pledges that have been made in the Hall to boost development and economic growth in Africa through aid and investment. The world has a responsibility to support Africa’s efforts beyond mere promises and good intentions; it must provide the assistance needed for African countries to recover the treasures that were stolen from them over successive eras, the last of which being the period when some thought that supporting unjust regimes would help to achieve a false stability that protected their interests, while those regimes merely spread corruption and allowed for wealth to be smuggled outside their countries. I am aware that the desired goals can only be achieved through the active participation of the peoples of the continent and their assumption of their own responsibilities. That is something that we as Africans are ready and willing to undertake in our quest for a better future for our countries. Today, we as Africans have to create for our continent a new set of ambitious goals that would ensure that we are on the right track towards sustainable development, the fulfilment of our aspirations for a better future and the real participation of Africa in the international order. I assure the Assembly that Egypt will continue to support its brothers and sisters in Africa, and that it is ready to cooperate with any stakeholder or party in or outside the continent to raise living standards in Africa through the exchange of expertise and successful practices. As we contemplate the current international order, we feel that there is a need to work diligently to repair it, based on principles that would renew its legitimacy and preserve its credibility. That is a legitimate demand of peoples and nations as they seek to participate in shaping a new world and a better future for their children. Revitalizing the role of the General Assembly as a democratic forum that expresses the will of the international community and reforming the structure of a Security Council, which still reflects a bygone era, must remain our highest priorities and must be undertaken with due seriousness. I would like to emphasize the need for the United Nations to give special attention to women’s issues and youth issues. During the Non-Aligned Movement summit in Tehran, I proposed a new initiative to establish a United Nations body dedicated solely to youth issues, giving particular attention to education, training, employment and improving youth participation in political life. The aim is to build the capacity of future generations to achieve their aspirations. Egypt would like to stress that the international system will not be fixed as long as we have double standards. We expect from others, as others expect from us, respect for our cultural specificities and religious points of reference. The world beyond our region should not seek to impose on us concepts or cultures that are unacceptable to us, nor should they politicize certain issues and use them as a pretext to intervene in our affairs. What Muslims — and migrant Muslims — are experiencing in a number of regions worldwide in terms of discrimination, basic human rights violations and vicious campaigns against what they hold sacred, is unacceptable. The behaviour of some individuals in that regard is absolutely unacceptable. We reject the insults heaped upon the Prophet of Islam, Muhammad — peace be upon him — as unacceptable. We oppose those who hurl such insults. We will not allow anyone to insult the Prophet in word or in deed. It runs counter to the most basic principles of the Charter of the United Nations. Unfortunately, such practices have acquired a name today — Islamophobia. We all have to work together. We must join hands in confronting regressive ideas that hinder cooperation among us. We must move together to confront extremism, discrimination and incitement to hatred of others on the basis of religion or race. The General Assembly and the Security Council have the primary responsibility for addressing a phenomenon that is starting to have clear implications for international peace and security. The obscenities that I have referred to, which are part of a recent organized campaign against Islamic sanctities, are unacceptable and require that we take a firm stand. We have a responsibility at this international forum to look into how we can protect the world from instability and insecurity. Egypt respects freedom of expression — a freedom of expression that is not used to incite hatred against anyone and that is not directed towards a specific religion or culture. We support a freedom of expression that addresses extremism and violence and does not deepen ignorance or disregard others. As we have said before, we firmly oppose the use of violence as a means of expressing objection to obscenity and indecency. Before I conclude, I must say that the severity and recurrence of financial and economic crises must lead us to a review of the international economic decision-making processes that affect the fate of peoples who have not participated directly in those processes but yet are unfortunately the first to bear their negative impacts on growth, trade, the environment and the social fabric of society, as a result of unfair trade rules and practices and conditionalities imposed on the transfer of technology and access to necessary financing for development. We urgently need a new people-centred form of global economic governance that aims at consolidating cooperation between development partners on the basis of mutual benefit and interests. I have laid out our vision, which is shared by the Egyptian people. I have also attempted to brief ly outline Egypt’s views on the main issues, which is to say the vision of Egyptian youth, children, women and men, Muslim and non-Muslim, on all important questions in the Middle East, Africa and the rest of the world. From that perspective, I am sure that the United Nations is capable of assuming its intended role of effectively addressing all global and regional issues and challenges through dialogue, understanding and joint cooperation, in accordance with the principles of international law. Post-revolutionary Egypt will spare no effort to deal sincerely with all Members of the Organization. We will always remain in the forefront of international endeavours aimed at achieving freedom, justice, social justice and dignity for all peoples, as well as security and stability for all our countries. I look forward with great optimism, and I see the peace that we call for prevailing all over the world — a peace based on justice and conferring on all their undiminished rights, a peace that does not discriminate between people for any reason. That peace will not come about until we all cooperate, until we realize that we are all equal and share many aspirations and ambitions. That is the peace whose message I bring to to the Assembly — a peace of right and justice, stability and development, interdependence of interests and benefits, love and mutual respect. I do not believe that achieving this will raise difficulties for any of us if we extend the hand of cooperation, sincere intention and righteous work. God is our witness. We are all hopeful that we will see a better future for the world.﻿On behalf of the Government of the Republic of San Marino, I congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, and I wish him a fruitful year. The San Marino delegation assures him of its utmost cooperation in all the work of the General Assembly. I also express my country’s gratitude to the outgoing President of the General Assembly, Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for the excellent work carried out during the sixty-sixth session. He distinguished himself by his leadership in the difficult and complex issues before the United Nations. He promoted the most important themes on the General Assembly’s agenda with courage and determination, laying foundations for solutions based on the widest possible consensus, while continually working to strengthen the global governance architecture. My country also extends special thanks to the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his energy and extraordinary determination in leading the United Nations. San Marino supports the basic priorities of the Secretary-General’s political action and his idea that the United Nations should play a key role in strengthening global governance by creating new cooperation models capable of managing today’s challenges and the ever-increasing calls for change. The Organization is in a unique position to provide solutions in deeply interconnected fields, such as development, peace and security, human rights and humanitarian action. San Marino appreciates the focus of the Secretary- General’s attention on all United Nations Member States, without distinction, as well as his commitment in the field of reform and his presence in all international politically relevant and emergency situations. Among those worth underlining is the Secretary-General’s tireless commitment to finding a solution to the terrible Syrian conflict. I thank the President for the theme chosen for this session: “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. The Republic of San Marino strongly believes in the settlement of international disputes by peaceful means. My country has always believed in the power of dialogue, democracy and respect for others as values at the basis of peaceful coexistence among peoples. In that respect, with reference to the recent bloody attacks on Western diplomatic missions, San Marino intends to voice once more its firm condemnation of any form of violence. We do not believe that violence is the right answer when someone feels hurt in his personal beliefs or opinions, regardless of the gravity of the statements made. Human life must always be above everything and everyone. Those actions are even more reproachable when directed to institutions that are the emblems of international collaboration and mutual assistance and when States bear no responsibility for the statements made. Our country is therefore grateful to the President for having chosen the theme, most of all at a time when the international scene is unfortunately characterized by ever-increasing and bloody conflicts. In that context, the role of the United Nations, and in particular of the General Assembly, in peaceful transitions and democratic solutions is even more fundamental. For that reason and because the international community is now called upon to face major global challenges in a consistent and rapid manner, the reform process of the United Nations is crucial to future world stability and must remain the target of all our efforts. We have the duty to guarantee the full effectiveness of the Organization’s activities with a view to preserving and strengthening its essential value as a point of reference for the international community and for any individual. I have the pleasure to reiterate again this year the support granted by San Marino to the revitalization process of the General Assembly. In that regard, I thank Georgia and the Gambia, as co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the General Assembly, for the report recently adopted (A/66/891), which is the outcome of considerable effort and numerous informal meetings with Member States and the representatives of the various political groups. That reform is particularly important for my country, since the General Assembly is the most democratic body of the United Nations and, as such, the most adequate and sometimes the only forum where a small State can express its opinions. The revitalization process of the General Assembly is fundamental to strengthening the global governance architecture and must be an objective common to all Member States. The rationalization of the agenda and improvement of the methods of work of the General Assembly are important aspects of the reform, which is necessary to enhance the technical and administrative efficiency of this body. But more importantly, the revitalization process should include the political role of the General Assembly and its authority, as defined in the Charter of the United Nations. The reform of the General Assembly should also improve its relations with the other main organs of the United Nations in order to avoid duplication of functions and means. The Republic of San Marino believes that the role of the General Assembly should not be limited to that of a mere body where resolutions are adopted. On the contrary, it should be a forum for the exchange of ideas and debate, where solutions to today’s challenges can be found, and where a global consensus on issues of common interest can be reached. In that regard, with a view to enabling the Assembly to fully perform its task, San Marino supports the prerogative of its President to organize thematic debates on the most relevant and urgent issues at the international level. In that context, I underline the great importance attached by my country to the initiative of the outgoing President to organize, together with the Secretary- General, the high-level thematic debate on the state of the world economy and finance in 2012, which took place on 17 and 18 May here in New York. The Republic of San Marino, together with Turkey, had the honour and the pleasure to facilitate that event. The debate was an efficient way to reaffirm the central role of the United Nations, and in particular of the General Assembly, by enhancing its deeply democratic nature and its indisputable legitimacy in dealing with issues that affect the entire world community. Four years ago, the world economy suffered a devastating financial crisis, the consequences of which are still evident to all. A prompt response by the Group of Twenty and its central banks was able to avoid the worst effects of this crisis, but the situation is still precarious. According to forecasts, many developed countries will experience stagnation and in some cases recession. Economic growth has slowed down in many other countries. Today, unemployment has reached the highest levels, in particular among young people and women. Increases in the prices of food products and persistent inequalities contribute to higher poverty rates and cause increasingly violent social tensions. Problems connected with sovereign debts in Europe have further worsened global economic crisis. The crisis has severely hit many countries of the world, thus becoming one of today’s major challenges to our Organization as well. It is now more than ever necessary to find new strategies, solutions and, more importantly, to create a sense of solidarity among our countries and peoples. For those reasons too, the organization this year of a thematic debate on the state of the world economy and finance was extremely important. My country firmly believes that this exercise should be repeated at this session of the General Assembly and perhaps at later sessions, at least until the crisis has been overcome. Indeed, when we talk about the revitalization of the General Assembly, we think of a forum where all members of the international community have the opportunity to exchange ideas on the most important and urgent themes that have a global dimension and need a global response. In our opinion, the Organization should play a leadership role in the promotion of fair and inclusive growth, sustainable development and the elimination of poverty and hunger. The reform of the Security Council is part of a wider reform of the United Nations and remains a central theme of the activity of the General Assembly. Over the past few years, the Security Council has approved a growing number of peacekeeping operations and has been increasingly involved in extremely important issues concerning international peace and security. The reform of that body, based on the widest possible political consensus, is therefore necessary and must be carried out with the utmost commitment by all Member States. The Republic of San Marino is grateful to Ambassador Tanin for the wisdom and impartiality with which he has presided over intergovernmental negotiations on the reform. Our country is convinced that the intergovernmental negotiations launched three years ago still represent the right framework to find a solution, taking into account the interests and positions of all. Although the various groups of countries still express different positions, it must be recognized that some steps forward have been taken in the reform process. San Marino believes that the reform should lead to an enlarged, more representative, transparent and efficient Security Council. Moreover, it believes that the five strongly interconnected fundamental themes of the reform need to be considered as a whole. Over the past few years, some new bloody and violent conflicts have broken out. We have also witnessed a massive popular uprising spreading across the squares of cities in North Africa and the Middle East. At the forefront of the Arab revolution were young people, educated and penalized by exclusion from the labour market. The situation is still unstable, and we are unable to imagine what the future of such countries will look like. However, we must support them in their struggle for democracy, liberty and social justice. Furthermore, today we are witnessing the Syrian conflict, the violence of which is unacceptable. There are clear reports on the atrocities perpetrated against the population: mass killings, rapes, summary executions and torture. Children have been among the innocent victims of the massacres. San Marino firmly condemns those atrocities, in the same way as it condemns any violation of human rights and international humanitarian law. We hope that the Security Council will be able to reach an agreement soon on how to settle the Syrian crisis. San Marino seizes this opportunity to express its most sincere wishes to His Excellency Lakhdar Brahimi for having accepted a difficult task. The commitment of the General Assembly concerning the Syrian crisis reflects an important mission of our Organization: to keep the peace worldwide and to ensure respect for freedoms and human rights. The Republic of San Marino expresses its satisfaction with the adoption, on 3 August last, of resolution 66/253 B, which we co-sponsored. Another important theme this year on the agenda of the General Assembly has been the improvement of disaster prevention and response. That theme has recently gained greater importance in the political agenda. Rising temperatures, earthquakes and droughts have caused unprecedented humanitarian disasters. Many populations have suffered food and health insecurity, thus becoming fully aware of their vulnerability. Disasters are, of course, not only natural ones but also caused by human beings. The international community must be able to rapidly and efficiently respond to emergency situations. A fundamental way to reduce the risks connected with natural disasters is undoubtedly to invest in the most vulnerable regions in order to build the capacities necessary to prevent them, so that action can be taken before disasters occur. In the short term, however, it is essential to provide our political and financial support so as to overcome the consequences of disasters. In that regard, I am proud of the fact that my country, despite its small size, is ranked fifty-second among donors to the Central Emergency Response Fund. We are extremely grateful to the Secretary- General, as well as to the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and the Fund, for their rapid and fundamental action in favour of populations in humanitarian emergency and for their substantial contribution. Humanitarian and development issues, particularly sustainable development, are inevitably intertwined, and our success in providing an efficient response to natural disasters certainly has a direct impact on our capacity to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. Indeed, as this is a global economic crisis, responses must also have a global dimension. The United Nations, on account of its universal character, must play a key role in the decision-making process on the world economy and sustainable development, with a view to finding new solutions and to promoting a political consensus on these issues. The Organization must play a leadership role in the promotion of fair and inclusive growth, sustainable development and the elimination of poverty and hunger. In that context, San Marino welcomes the results of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held last June in Rio. Resolution 66/288, entitled “The future we want”, marked the conclusion of long and complex negotiations at the end of which States finally recognized their common responsibilities. Now the most important thing is for the commitments undertaken to be respected so that the future that is wanted and set out in the resolution can become a reality. The 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone is entitled to the same rights and freedoms, without distinction of any kind. Unfortunately, in today’s world there is a clear and direct relationship among disability, poverty and social exclusion. According to estimates, approximately 15 per cent of the world’s population is affected by disabilities, and about two thirds of disabled people live in developing countries. Many of them cannot actively participate in their societies. This situation is not limited only to developing countries. Indeed, women, men and children with disabilities are often victims of discrimination even in the richest societies. San Marino was among the first countries to ratify the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. That Convention and its optional Protocol cover a wide range of civil, cultural, economic, political and social rights. My country is pleased that the Convention has been ratified by more than half of Member States and hopes that it will soon be ratified by all. Each country has the duty to fully implement the Convention. An effective and positive change in the lives of people with disabilities will be possible only if it is fully implemented. The Republic of San Marino congratulates the General Assembly on its decision to convene a high- level meeting on disability and development in September 2013 and hopes that the meeting will be a great success. Today we all recognize and appreciate the fundamental role of women. Nonetheless, the discrimination and violence to which women are still often subjected are among the major concerns of the United Nations. In many countries, maternal mortality is still worrisome, especially in the poorest areas of the world. Women are the most affected by HIV. In many parts of the world, women continue to be subjected to atrocious and humiliating practices. Improving the status of women all over the world is our responsibility, a responsibility which all States must share. To that end, in order to promote the empowerment of women, it is essential to guarantee women’s access to schooling and education and to improve their participation in political, social and economic life at all levels. The Republic of San Marino welcomes the proposal to hold a global conference on women in 2015, 20 years after the Beijing summit. Despite the fact that child mortality is decreasing, the most recent estimates show that in 2010 approximately 7.6 million children died before the age of 5. Moreover, according to estimates, in 2015 about 72 million children will not have access to schooling. Recently, the drought and food emergency in the Horn of Africa has had a devastating impact on about 13 million people, in particular women and children. Almost 5 million young people between the ages of 15 and 24 are affected by HIV. Children are still the most vulnerable group of the population and are subjected to violence, abuse and exploitation. A vast number of children all over the world do not still have access to basic services, health care and education. Besides facing global challenges such as the economic crisis and the problems connected with climate change, States must find the resources necessary to best meet the needs of children and to immediately improve the conditions of those living in the poorest areas of the world. It is imperative for us all if we want to guarantee to the global community a future worthy of the name.﻿As I congratulate the President on behalf of the Holy See on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, I have the honour of conveying warm greetings from His Holiness Pope Benedict XVI, who wishes for him and all members the blessings of all-powerful God. At a time when the world is witnessing a disturbing increase in bloody regional conflicts, the Holy See is particularly pleased to note the central theme that has been chosen for the work of this session, namely “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. Since the establishment of the United Nations, a tight web of structured legal relationships has evolved, covering virtually every aspect of the relations between States and of life in the societies within States. In that regard, the Charter of the United Nations, the major human rights treaties and the treaties governing humanitarian law, along with the Vienna Conventions on the law of treaties and diplomatic law and the key conventions on disarmament, may be viewed as a nearly universal legal corpus that promotes social relations based on the law and that furthers durable peace. That is a historically unprecedented development and a genuine achievement of the United Nations; it stands as a credit to the United Nations and certainly as one of its most successful achievements with respect to the aims enshrined in the Preamble and first Article of the Charter. Over the course of the 67 years since the establishment of the United Nations, the world has undergone profound transformation. Growing technical and economic interdependence, along with the exponential development of new forms of communication, has led to the advent of what has commonly been known, ever since the middle of the twentieth century, as the global village: a diverse and continuously evolving village that has experienced astonishing development but that has also seen terrible injustice. In that regard, the labour of legal construction undertaken by the United Nations is a worthy response that promotes the development of that global village, a response that deserves the continued and wholehearted support of Governments and social organizations. Human history has always presented paradoxical or conf lictive situations that have given rise to frustration and feelings of injustice. Today, in a context of generalized interdependence, the disparity between wealth and poverty is more pronounced and unacceptable than ever. The disorderly expansion of technical and economic progress has intensified the gap between those who have the education and the means to advance and those who lack both. The multiple legal and economic ties that unite nations are not sufficiently just and equitable, and they have become a conveyor belt for the serious economic and financial crisis, which has spread as quickly as a forest fire, affecting the most vulnerable first. For some of the world’s people, resorting to crime and terrorism or waging war in the name of ideological, ethnic or cultural beliefs seems to be the easiest, if not the only available way to escape poverty and become the heroes of the global village. Such acts of violence are abetted by the perverse use of communications technology and by the excessively easy access to the tools of war. If, in the 1990s, the state of legal and political progress allowed us to believe that the danger of nuclear war had receded, today the likelihood of regional conflicts with unpredictable outcomes has once again created a threatening atmosphere that should impel us to intensify our efforts to establish a truly constructive dialogue within the international community. During the period of the Cold War, the United Nations was a meeting place and a point of discussion and balance between the opposing Powers. The Organization managed to support the decolonization and independence of a large number of new States and to mitigate, and even at times resolve, regional, bilateral and civil conflicts in a context that was nonetheless marked by severe ideological confrontation. At the same time, United Nations agencies made an important intellectual, political and judicial contribution to the universal recognition of human rights and strengthened cooperation for development and regional economic integration. Those advances constituted fundamental progress towards strengthening the rule of law, which itself provides a favourable framework and is the best guarantor of human rights and peaceful international cooperation. Allow me here to welcome the Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels (resolution 67/1), which was adopted at the beginning of this session. The 67 years since the establishment of the United Nations also include a distinguished history of humanitarian interventions, peacekeeping operations and, more recently, peacebuilding operations. Also of special importance for the fate of humanity as a whole have been the adoption of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the activities of the International Atomic Energy Agency aimed at promoting universal accession to the Treaty, controlling the implementation of the Treaty and facilitating international cooperation on the peaceful use of the atom. Over the past 20 years, the United Nations, together with regional organizations, has made an essential contribution to resolving a number of urgent situations, particularly in Africa, by collaborating with the African Union and other institutions of that continent. Nonetheless, the current reality presents us with a United Nations system without the strength of unity and persuasion that could legitimately be expected of it; a system in which, unfortunately, power relationships are played out to the benefit of specific strategic interests. Yet the possibilities that emerged at the end of the Cold War seemed to portend a possible strengthening of the institutional and political presence of the United Nations in the service of world’s most critical challenges, such as climate change and the preservation of the environment. How is it possible that, despite universal adhesion to the Charter of the United Nations and the essential treaties, we are still unable to establish a just and true form of global governance? The Holy See would like to offer a moral answer to that question by calling attention to the importance of the values that, of necessity, underlie all human societies. Indeed, before engaging in political or technical considerations, it is important to ask whether the crises currently convulsing the planet are linked to a crisis of trust in the collective values enshrined in the very Charter of the United Nations. Moreover, the question arises whether the crises afflicting the planet are linked to a serious anthropological crisis, which is to say the lack of a shared understanding of what it means to be human. Today we are witnessing a weakening in the practical reach of the purposes and principles set out in the Preamble and Chapter I of the Charter. I note in particular saving succeeding generations from the scourge of war, practicing tolerance with a spirit of good-neighbourliness, uniting strength for the maintenance of peace and security, recourse to peaceful means to settle disputes, in conformity with the principles of justice and international law, and cooperation to solve international problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character and to promote and encourage respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms. The loss of trust in the value of dialogue and the temptation to favour a priori one party in national or regional conflicts endanger respect for the legal mechanisms of the United Nations. However, the pre-eminence of the values affirmed by the Charter should lead to the adoption of all means possible to guarantee the protection of the most vulnerable, uphold the rule of law and human rights, and safeguard ancient cultural and religious balances. Mr. Gaspar Martins (Angola), Vice-President, took the Chair. The urgency of the situation is all the more obvious given the events taking place in the Middle East, especially in Syria. There can be no solution outside the rules of international law and humanitarian law and implementation of mechanisms established by the Charter of the United Nations. All parties concerned must not only do everything possible to facilitate the mission of the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria, but also to guarantee humanitarian aid to populations in distress. The international community must unite its efforts to ensure that all parties concerned substitute negotiation for recourse to arms and demand effective respect for religious freedom, human rights and all fundamental freedoms. As Pope Benedict XVI recently reiterated during his trip to Lebanon, we should import ideas of peace and creativity, we should find ways of accepting each person in his otherness, we should therefore make visible before the world the respect that religions have for one another, respect for man as a creature of God, and love of neighbour as fundamental to all religions. In that way, using all possible means, including material assistance, we must help to bring an end to war and violence so that all can help rebuild the peace. On his return from Lebanon, the Holy Father called on Arab countries, as brothers, to propose workable solutions that respect the dignity, the rights and the religion of every individual. Those who wish to build peace must cease to see in the other an evil to be eliminated. It is not easy to see in the other a person to be respected and loved, and yet that is necessary if one desires to build peace, if one desires fraternity. Moreover, only an international community strongly rooted in values that genuinely uphold human dignity can provide viable solutions to the new types of conflict perpetrated by transnational groups, which spread a pseudo-religious hegemonic ideology contemptuous of individual rights and civil peace. We think of the instability and the recent terrorist attacks in some countries of Africa and Asia, or the collusion between drug trafficking and terrorism in other regions of the world. Beyond even situations of conflict, today all States, rich and poor, see their stability threatened by the economic crisis to which no true and sustainable solution has been found to date. Just a few years ago international discussions were essentially about potential ways to share the resources of the rich countries, where well-being appeared to be firmly established, or about the legitimate recognition of the rights of developing countries. The debate was about finding the right balance between free trade and financial assistance; the transfer of know-how, technologies and direct aid to the poorest populations; the clash of ideas about the foreign debt of the poorest countries; the role of the World Trade Organization and its connections to the United Nations; the reform of multilateral financial institutions; and comprehensive access to essential drugs. That unavoidable debate must be continued, even if today it is overshadowed and made more complex by the issues related to financial stability, whose impact is global. In fact, we can all see that the financial stability of the most developed societies has been seriously endangered, especially because of shortsighted economic policies often based only on maximizing short-term profits. The threat of collapse of financial systems in economies that were until now the most prosperous has serious consequences for social cohesion. It has led to the resurgence of old fantasies such as exacerbated nationalism, populism and xenophobia. Add to that the tragedy of millions of people weighed down by hunger, the lack of basic health care and abject poverty, as well as of vast populations living in inhuman conditions, displaced populations and refugees, among whom are thousands of children. Given the difficulty of finding common solutions that respect the principles of self-determination, independence, and the equality of States and the right of peoples, the anthropological crisis of which I spoke has emerged, that is, a lack of conviction in the supreme dignity of every individual, even when they have just been conceived or are in a vegetative or terminal state. It is an illusion to want to create true harmony among peoples, to guarantee peaceful coexistence and real cooperation between States if we confine ourselves to a vision of mankind that — without in theory denying the importance of the dignity and fundamental rights of the individual — consigns the profound dimension of the person and his uniqueness to the rank of secondary factors, and insists on vague collective concepts that reduce the individual to the simple category of consumer or agent of production in the market. A human being is not a mere number in the masses of the global population. And the masses of the global population cannot be viewed coldly or with suspicion as a danger threatening the environmental and social balances. We are talking about men and women, each with dignity and rights. Ideological visions that do not take that into account lead irreparably to social disintegration and conflict. In that sense, we must reject attempts to view the Millennium Development Goals and the post-2015 development agenda, as well as the interpretation of human rights treaties, on the basis of a limited and relativist vision of humankind that, cleverly using ambiguous expressions, threatens the right to life and presents a deconstruction of the family model based on the union of a man and a woman and oriented towards procreation and the education of children. In the end, those attempts risk the irremediable weakening of the credibility and legitimacy of the Organization as a universal tool for sustainable cooperation and peace. It is of the first importance to provide an effective solution to the open debate on the reform and improvement of the functioning of United Nations organs in order to revitalize its ability to anticipate conflicts and resolve them peacefully. However, that will be possible only with a constantly renewed effort to return to the founding vision of the Organization. Sustainable peace will not be possible without each and every one of us engaging in a constructive dialogue directed toward achieving dignified and decent living conditions for all human beings. That can be done only through a shared belief with regard to fundamental values that guarantee respect for human life. In that regard, respect for religious freedom is essential, within national public life as well as internationally. Reason tells us that each person has transcendental dignity, which brings with it freedom to determine one’s own ultimate destiny and which national and international authorities, as well as social mechanisms, must fully respect. That is why actions by Governments and international organizations must necessarily strive to promote comprehensive human development, creating legal, economic and social conditions that genuinely reflect the importance of human dignity and its transcendental dimension, both at the personal level and collectively. Religion should not be thought of other than as a factor of peace and progress, a living force for the well-being of all. Indeed, it leads human beings to overcome every egotistical interest and to devote their energies to the service of others, including for peace among peoples. That is why all forms of fanaticism and exclusivism and all acts of violence towards one’s neighbour are an exploitation of and a deviation from religion. Moreover, history has shown that a biased concept of secularism, or tolerance that would limit religious matters to the private sphere, can only undermine the bases for peaceful coexistence, at both the national and international levels. The Holy See has been involved in international cooperation activities since they were first given institutional structure. We established our Permanent Mission to the United Nations in New York in 1964. The reason for its presence as a subject of international law in this intergovernmental institution is first of all its desire to offer to the international community a transcendent view of life and social relations, recalling in particular the dignity of the individual and his fundamental rights, in the first place the right to religious freedom. The international community has always welcomed this contribution, which allows common initiatives to put back into a profound perspective, in which the underlying unity of the human family and the call to the generosity of individuals and peoples must always be reaffirmed. It is in that spirit that the Holy See wishes to offer its contribution to the present session of the General Assembly, aligning itself with the wish you expressed in your inaugural address, Mr. President, that all Member States, which share the responsibility to implement the principles and objectives of the Organization, would renew their commitment to resolve disputes by peaceful dialogue and not by resorting to confrontation. Only in that way will the aspirations and hopes of all be achieved. Only in that way can the United Nations play its indispensable role in peace and development.﻿At the outset, I would like to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty- seventh session. I am confident that his experience in international affairs will enable him to guide the work of this session wisely and ably, and I wish him every success in his task. I would also like to commend his predecessor, Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for his successful and prudent leadership of the sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly, and to commend the great efforts made by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and pay tribute to his tireless efforts and the role of this international Organization in promoting international peace, security and development. Security and stability in the Arab Gulf region are a high priority for all of us. Our balanced policies are based on the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the provisions of international law, especially those calling for peaceful coexistence, confidence-building, good neighbourliness, mutual respect, non-interference in the internal affairs of other States, and pursuing peaceful means in resolving conflicts and disputes. On the basis of those principles, my Government expresses, once again, its regret regarding the continued Iranian occupation of our three islands: Abu Musa, Greater Tunb and Lesser Tunb. We demand the restoration of the United Arab Emirates’ full sovereignty over those islands. We emphasize that all actions and measures taken by Iran are null and void, and are in contravention of international law and all norms and universal human values. The events unfolding in Syria are for us a cause for great sadness. They have gone beyond all limits and norms. The United Arab Emirates is closely, and with great concern, following the policies of violence, killing, displacement and expulsion being pursued by the Syrian regime against its people, which regime has lost all its legitimacy. We therefore call upon the international community to consider with seriousness and firmness what is happening to our Syrian brothers and to shoulder its humanitarian responsibilities. We see it as our duty to stop those atrocities against the peaceful Syrian people. We are convinced that a solution to the crisis can be achieved only through an orderly transition of power. That severe humanitarian crisis requires us to support the people of Syria, in particular the refugees. The United Arab Emirates has shouldered its responsibilities and obligations towards the Syrian refugees in Turkey and Jordan and will continue to do so by providing relief. We urge all States to contribute to such humanitarian efforts. The Middle East holds great importance for us, and we believe that peace and stability will never be achieved in that region until the Arab-Israeli conflict is resolved. That is the central and vital issue to the people of the entire region, and reaching a just solution is the key for bringing peace and stability to the whole area. It cannot be realized without putting an end to the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian and Arab territories through Israel’s withdrawal to the lines of 4 June 1967, including from East Jerusalem, the occupied Syrian Golan Heights and the remaining occupied Lebanese territories. The achievement of a just and comprehensive peace must be carried out in accordance with resolutions of international legitimacy, the principle of land for peace, the Arab Peace Initiative and the establishment of an independent Palestinian State, with East Jerusalem as its capital. The United Arab Emirates welcomes the considerable progress achieved in the political process in Somalia through the completion of the transitional phase, the convening of the Constituent Assembly, the adoption of the Constitution of Somalia and the election of Mr. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud as the new President of Somalia. We also reaffirm our support for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of Somalia, and look forward to working with its Government towards achieving security and stability and countering piracy in a region of such vital importance, not only with respect to oil and gas transport but also to the world economy in general. In the United Arab Emirates, we remain committed to supporting the security and stability of Afghanistan and confirm the continuation of our humanitarian and developmental support to that distressed country. In that context, we welcome the outcome of the donors conference that was held in Tokyo, with the hope that the pledges announced at the conference will contribute to the process of the reconstruction of Afghanistan. As we approach the year 2014 and the commitment for military withdrawal from Afghanistan and for turning the country over to its people and Government, we aspire to see an Afghanistan that is free from terrorism, extremism and violence. At the same time, the United Arab Emirates expresses its deep concern over the violence against the Rohingya Muslim community in Myanmar and calls upon the international community to urge the Government of Myanmar to cease all acts incompatible with the principles of fundamental human rights. We reaffirm our commitment to all requirements of nuclear non-proliferation and renew our support for the efforts aimed at designating the region of the Middle East, including the Arab Gulf region, a zone free of weapons of mass destruction — especially the Arab Gulf region. In that context, we must also call upon Israel to join the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and subject all of its nuclear facilities to the comprehensive safeguards regime. In that regard, we urge the Islamic Republic of Iran to fully cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency in implementing its international commitments in order to dispel all fears and suspicions surrounding its nuclear programme. We look forward to a peaceful solution to that crisis, ensuring that our region remains free of tension and conflict, while guaranteeing the transparency and peaceful nature of Iran’s nuclear programme. The United Arab Emirates began in 2009 to develop a nuclear energy programme for peaceful uses in order to meet the country’s growing demand for energy and to support economic development projects. It ensured that the programme’s rules and regulations were based on the highest standards of sustained safety and security measures and principles of nuclear non-proliferation. I take the opportunity to call upon the States of the region to draw on the experience of the United Arab Emirates in that field and to study the standards of transparency, technology, safety and security upon which the programme is based. We would like to emphasize the importance of addressing the implications of climate change, which involves developing renewable energy technologies to achieve sustainable development and providing clean energy for developing countries, which are among the goals advocated by the United Arab Emirates in offering various types of humanitarian and development assistance. The United Arab Emirates reiterates its firm condemnation of all acts of terrorism, illicit trafficking in drugs and arms and human trafficking, as well as organized crime, which are interlinked phenomena that feed into each other. It reaffirms its resolve to continue cooperating with international and multilateral efforts aiming at the total elimination of those negative phenomena, which pose a direct threat to international peace and security. The United Arab Emirates has announced the establishment of the International Centre of Excellence for Countering Violent Extremism, in collaboration with several inf luential friends and actors, which will begin its work in Abu Dhabi at the end of the year. Moderation and tolerance are the basic principles guiding our political orientation and represent lofty values to the citizens of the United Arab Emirates and to society as a whole. In that sense, the United Arab Emirates has been and will remain committed to moderation in its approach, and accepts other communities as part of a diverse world built on mutual respect. Those are the human values that have formed our convictions with regard to many issues, such as counterterrorism, human rights, the empowerment of women and coexistence among peoples and religious sects. The United Arab Emirates emphasizes the importance of consolidating the values of tolerance, moderation and respect for religions, as well as the importance of protecting religions against defamation and contempt and stresses the need to develop the necessary legislation in that regard. I must condemn, in the strongest possible terms, abuses against Islam, as freedom of expression should not be allowed to undermine any religion or belief, whatsoever. We also condemn all violent reactions to any such abuse. Terrorism poses a challenge to international peace and security and leads to violating the human rights of ordinary people by depriving them of the right to live in peace and prosperity. In that context and based on our commitment to the principles of human rights, the United Arab Emirates renews its support of international efforts aimed at ensuring peace, security and prosperity for all the peoples of the world, and looks forward to expanding its engagement in that area. The United Arab Emirates has also been focusing its efforts on reducing gender discrimination. Therefore, we look forward to playing an active role in the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women, based on our successful national experience in empowering the women of the United Arab Emirates, who actively participate in managing the affairs of the State as well as the community. In conclusion, I would like to appeal to all Member States to support the quest of the United Arab Emirates to host World Expo 2020 in Dubai under the slogan “Connecting Minds, Creating the Future”. We look forward to receiving the support necessary to strengthen my country’s candidacy, particularly since it is the first time that the event will be held in the Middle East, North Africa and South Asia region.﻿The world is living through unprecedented times. The challenges of an economic crisis now loom large. All nations, developed and developing, face growing uncertainties about their economic prospects. Serious concerns about the global economy arise now just after global prosperity had reached unprecedented heights. A second paradox is that the countries most seriously affected by the crisis are those that contributed the least to its root causes. As fallout from the crisis threatens to produce ever more significant impacts, many already vulnerable small island States also face a major threat of a different nature. The threat is an existential one. As with the economic crisis, the countries that may be most severely affected by climate change are those that have contributed the least to the root causes of climate change. Many small island developing States thus face the dual threat of the impact of the worsening economies on their trading and their development partners and that of climate change. Already vulnerable nations face greater threats at the international level, and more vulnerable groups face greater difficulties within nations. Young people are faced with higher levels of unemployment, and women and children are faced with reduced access to public services, health and education. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, speaking at the latest Group of 20 meeting, put food and nutrition security at the top of the agenda. Meeting the energy needs for development is a major concern. Recent meetings convened by the Economic and Social Council have again highlighted other major concerns, including structural unemployment, rising inequality and the lag in poverty eradication. Many countries, both developing and developed, face a major challenge with respect to youth unemployment. Improving access to education and tackling the mismatch between qualifications and employment are now a top policy goal. The world cannot let its young people down and must give them an opportunity to contribute to economic recovery and prosperity. What we do for young people and what they can do for the world they will inherit will shape the economic future of our world. As all nations work to promote sustainable development, essential components of governance required to achieve that goal include more equitable and inclusive growth, the fight against corruption, greater accountability, more transparency and a general culture of integrity. Mauritius affirms that along with initiatives to revisit development objectives, reform of the international financial architecture and global economic governance must remain a top priority. Mauritius strongly supports the view that the present economic crisis is of a global nature and that solutions for inclusive green growth also need to be global in nature. The inconclusive talks of the Doha Round and those on the United Nations Climate Change Convention both suffered from a historical divide that regrettably resurfaces from time to time and is resurfacing now at a time when global solutions are more than ever necessary. The debate over good economic and fiscal governance at the national level will always remain valid and necessary but, however sound such domestic policies may be, the global environment will have an impact on growth and development, especially on that of developing countries and smaller economies. Thirty-two years ago, the Independent Commission on International Development Issues highlighted, in the 1980 Brandt report, the interdependence of developing and developed economies and the mutuality of their interests. The report explained how all nations would benefit from a strengthened global economy. As the world faces another crisis, all nations should recall how much interdependence has grown since the Brandt report and bear in mind the interconnection and mutuality of interests in the development agenda. In that context, nations must resist protectionist measures as an easy way out. They would definitely be detrimental in the medium and long term. The Committee for Development Policy, in its July 2012 report (E/2012/33), called for a Transformative Development Agenda. The international community must pledge its support for a transformative agenda based on the recognition that globally coordinated solutions are necessary to accompany sound domestic policies. It is imperative that the General Assembly, with its pre-eminent and universal membership, play a crucial role in the debate on globally coordinated solutions. We reaffi rm our support for a revitalized Economic and Social Council, which should be able to exercise the effective role and function attributed to it by the Charter. In that context, we also welcome the reaffirmation of the mandate of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) at Doha. UNCTAD must continue to serve as the focal point of the United Nations system for the integrated treatment of trade and development and the interrelated issues of finance, technology, investment and sustainable development. As the world engages in the current debate on global solutions, we must promote more economic exchanges among developing nations. Regional integration and cooperation are key to future development. Trade and investment must also be accompanied by greater regional cooperation through the pooling of resources and the provision of public goods. Pooling entails increased economies of scale and makes it less costly to acquire technology. One area where regional cooperation can make a significant contribution is the energy sector. Pooling resources and coordinating policies at the regional level and among groups of developing countries with common requirements can facilitate the development of technology and the implementation of renewable energies. As we celebrate the thirtieth anniversary of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, let us remind ourselves of the potential of the oceans as an engine for growth and promote international cooperation in a vast collective effort to tap that potential. There is potential there with respect not only to food and mineral resources but also to transport, leisure and the advancement of science. We welcome the reaffirmation by world leaders in Rio de Janeiro that small island developing States remain a special case for sustainable development in view of their unique and particular vulnerabilities. We expect that the commitment to take urgent and concrete action to address the vulnerabilities of small island developing States will be followed by concrete actions. It is imperative that small island developing States issues be more effectively mainstreamed throughout the entire United Nations system and that a dedicated and clearly identified focal point be set up within every United Nations entity dealing with small island developing States issues. The Small Island Developing States Unit within the Department of Economic and Social Affairs should be strengthened to enable it to provide coordinated support for small island developing States. Mauritius joins other world leaders who have called on all countries to deliver on their assistance commitments. The international community cannot spend so much capital on negotiating new pledges and undertakings in a whole array of outcome documents and then ignore what has been agreed. We can move forward only if past commitments are honoured. We welcome the proposed establishment of a sustainable development council to follow up on the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development and formulate sustainable development goals. We also welcome the appointment of a high-level panel on the post-2015 development agenda. Those entities and others should be able to build on what has already been agreed through global negotiations. I must say that our hearts go out to the people of Syria, who are enduring the consequences of a severe humanitarian crisis, as there is no prospect in sight of a resolution to the political struggle. The international community cannot remain indifferent to such suffering. The world can also not remain indifferent to the suffering of the Palestinian people, who are without a universally recognized State and face severe economic hardships and insecurity. Those challenges will test the credibility and moral authority of the international system. I must also say that, while we have the utmost respect for all faiths and religions, we strongly believe that there is no justification for violence, however profound the outrage in response to religious vilification. We also support the fundamental principle of the protection of diplomats and diplomatic premises, which is at the core of the interaction between nations, and we call on all members of the comity of nations to fully respect that principle. We also call on the international community to support the full implementation of the road map worked out in our neighbouring State of Madagascar and to provide the transitional Government with the means to ensure a speedy return to constitutional rule and democracy in that great country. Mauritius very much welcomed the High- level Meeting of the Assembly on the rule of law. Development and greater economic prosperity go hand in hand with enhanced rule of law at both the national and the international levels. There will be no meaningful rule of law at the international level unless and until all nations, especially the small ones, have avenues for resolving their disputes with other States. The United Kingdom excised part of Mauritian territory prior to independence, has refused to enter into talks in good faith on that dispute and has ensured that the dispute cannot be resolved by the International Court of Justice. Thus, the decolonization of Africa has not been completed. At a time when the United Nations debates the rule of law at both the national and the international levels, we urge the international community to work on machinery that would enable States, whatever their size or economic power, to have at their disposal judicial and other peaceful means of resolving disputes. The rule of law at the international level cannot be normative only. There must also be adequate enforcement mechanisms, without which there is no meaningful rule of law. The full realization of the territorial integrity of Mauritius also requires a settlement that would enable us to effectively assert our sovereignty over Tromelin Island. We look forward to continued dialogue with France in a spirit of mutual cooperation. The challenges that our countries currently face call for exemplary solidarity on the part of the community of nations. Our common interests must guide all of our actions. We will not be able to pull through without each other. All Governments, civil society, researchers and entrepreneurs must therefore be aware of the interdependence of our economies and work together for the good of all nations. Countries often turn inwards in times of crisis and look out only for what they believe to be their own interests. However, true solutions are collective. A global recovery would serve the interests of all States. Before I end, let me convey to the Assembly the greetings of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Mauritius and its people.﻿It is a distinct honour for me to convey the sincere regrets of my President, Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, who, on account of unavoidable circumstances, was unable to address the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I wish to join previous speakers in congratulating the President on his election to direct the affairs of this session and to assure him of my delegation’s fullest support and cooperation throughout his tenure. Allow me to commend his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, and to thank him for the skilful manner in which he efficiently conducted the affairs of the last session. My profound appreciation also goes to the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his tireless efforts in advancing the United Nations agenda to make the world a peaceful and safer place for humankind. The President’s choice of the theme “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means” is a timely wake-up call for the United Nations to fully embrace the fundamental principle upon which our Organization was established. Indeed, only with such adjustments and the practical manifestation of our collective commitment to peaceful coexistence can we, as a global family, successfully tackle the myriad of prevailing global challenges. They include poverty, hunger, the gross and systematic violation of human rights, extremist fundamentalism, terrorism and transnational organized crime, as well as the reconstruction and strengthening of fragile States and economies emerging from conflict. In that context, we should remind ourselves that, a little over a year ago, the Assembly adopted the landmark resolution 66/291 on mediation that recognizes its growing usefulness as a means of preventing disputes from escalating into conflicts and as a cost-effective tool in the peaceful settlement of disputes and the prevention of conflicts. Amid such security challenges and global economic uncertainties, the African continent continues to strive hard to contain and to address the resurgence of conflicts in the region by peaceful means. At the regional and subregional levels, the year under review has been marred by sporadic terrorist strikes by extremists, leading to the extensive loss of life and massive destruction of property, including coveted world heritage sites, and the recent killing of the United States Ambassador and three other Americans in Libya. Sierra Leone strongly condemns such brutal and cowardly acts and will continue to work closely with all partners, particularly within the framework of the Mano River Union, the Economic Community of West African States, the African Union (AU) and the United Nations, in seeking a lasting solution to that scourge. Until recently, the use of preventive diplomacy in the maintenance of international peace and security was not used to its fullest potential by the United Nations system. Rather, it was used more as a tool in crisis management. I am, however, heartened by the present impetus and would like to take this opportunity to commend the role of the Secretary-General, his Special Representatives and the crisis-management operations and missions around the world, as well as the increasing role of the AU, subregional organizations and international contact groups, in tackling crisis situations that have emerged globally in recent times. Sierra Leone will continue to wholeheartedly embrace mediation and other conflict-prevention initiatives as a key and indispensable tool in settling disputes and in preventing and resolving conflicts. The lessons learned from our experience have enhanced our conviction in the core principles of democracy, human rights and good governance as prerequisites for political stability, sustainable peace, security and development. We therefore remain strongly committed to the rule of law, respect for and the protection of human rights, gender equality, the empowerment of women, equal access to justice, fighting corruption with zero tolerance and pursuing the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). To that end, we are committed to ensuring participatory governance, conducting free, fair, transparent and credible elections, and combating transnational organized crime in all its forms. Sierra Leone therefore views with disappointment the fact that the United Nations Conference on the Arms Trade Treaty ended without a negotiated consensus on the treaty’s adoption. The Sierra Leone delegation believes that we must all earnestly endeavour to adopt a well-considered and balanced treaty with adequate provisions to effectively regulate the transfer of conventional weapons. If we continue to delay in that respect, we face the risk of their continuous use in committing grave violations of national and international law, which has the potential to destabilize peace and security. We therefore urge Member States to consider our moral obligation to humankind as our key guiding principle and to sincerely commit to contributing to the establishment of mechanisms to prevent the diversion of such weapons into the illicit market. In three years, we will reach the target date of 2015 for the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. For many Member States, particularly those of the global South, the voyage has been rough and, at times, turbulent. Worse still, the effects of the food, fuel and financial crises that struck the global community in 2008, as well as the impact of climate change, conflicts and deadly pandemics, have further exacerbated the situation and compromised the determination and efforts of developing countries, especially least developed countries (LDCs), to attain the internationally agreed development goals, including the MDGs. We commend Brazil on successfully hosting the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20). We also applaud our solidarity and flexibility during the negotiation process, enabling the incorporation of LDCs and conflict- affected countries in the Rio+20 outcome document (resolution 66/288, annex). We look forward to a similar spirit of solidarity in defining sustainable development goals that take on board the concerns of the most vulnerable members of the community of nations. Despite the onerous challenges facing the global community, Sierra Leone has recorded significant progress in strengthening its political and economic governance, including the improvement of its social indicators. We have made substantial progress in implementing the President’s Agenda for Change (2008-2012), which covers the priorities of our national development aspirations, as well as key peacebuilding priorities, in tandem with the United Nations Joint Vision for Sierra Leone. The ongoing foreign direct investment in various sectors of the economy, notably the mining sector, is brightening the prospects for the economy. Hopefully, it will place Sierra Leone among the fastest growing economies in the world in the next few years. The Agenda for Change continues to provide a strong partnership link between Sierra Leone and the United Nations, as well as other international development partners. To date, its implementation has had a great impact on peacebuilding and on laying the foundations for sustainable development and the consolidation of peace. Sierra Leone today is considered a showpiece of best practices in donor coordination and a success story in peacebuilding. In that regard, we reiterate our call to the international community to continue to invest in our success in the spirit of the New Deal for Engagement in Fragile States, which was agreed in Busan, and the need for special attention to be paid to countries emerging from conflict. The successor development framework to our Agenda for Change, entitled Agenda for Prosperity, is anchored on the New Deal and is well under way. In its short existence to date, the peacebuilding architecture has proven its worth as envisaged by the leaders at the 2005 World Summit, whose goal was to help countries emerging from conflict make an irreversible transition from war to sustainable peace. As one of the first countries on the Peacebuilding Commission’s agenda, Sierra Leone has charted a path that can serve as a learning model for others. In that regard, we strongly believe that strengthening peacebuilding will help to better safeguard countries from relapsing into conflict and sustain peace beyond the life of peacekeeping missions. It will also help ensure that the enormous investments that Member States make in peacekeeping operations will achieve their intended result. Sierra Leone continues to uphold the principles of interreligious tolerance, peaceful coexistence and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. At the national level, we have enhanced political stability by strengthening good governance institutions, giving them sufficient leverage and latitude to deliver on their respective statutory mandates. That arrangement has earned the Human Rights Commission of Sierra Leone an “A status” accreditation from the International Coordinating Committee of National Human Rights Institutions. In that regard, we remain focused on our obligations to report to international treaty bodies and have therefore submitted our initial report with regard to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, while work is well under way on our reports in compliance with the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment and the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights. Along those lines, we recently established a national commission for disabled persons, consistent with the relevant provisions of the 2011 Disability Act, enacted the 2012 Sexual Offences Act to address the specific issue of sexual violence against women and girls, and passed into law the 2012 bill on arms and ammunition to regulate gun ownership so as to ensure compliance with the Economic Community of West African States Convention on Small Arms and Light Weapons. A gender-equality bill is also in process for enactment. I commend the support of the United Nations and the international partners for the work of the Special Court for Sierra Leone, which has made a number of critical contributions to the advancement of the rule of law at both the national and the international levels. In particular, we compliment the Special Court for bringing to trial perpetrators of crimes against humanity and violations of international humanitarian law committed in Sierra Leone during the course of our 11-year conflict. Sierra Leone, the United Nations and the international community can be proud of the Special Court’s immense achievements. With our continued support, the Special Court can complete its remaining work. President Ernest Bai Koroma, in his address to the General Assembly at the opening of its sixty-sixth session, underscored the imperative of peacefully settling disputes in Africa and the world at large by emphasizing that the world is so interconnected in trade, politics and the social spheres that a single nation’s upheaval could affect many other countries (see A/66/PV.20). It is against that background that we, as a country, have continued to nurture closer ties with our sister States in the Mano River basin in order to deepen cooperation and collaboration and address issues of common concern, ranging from transnational organized crime to border disputes. The recent decision by the Presidents of Sierra Leone and her sister Republic of Guinea to demilitarize the Yenga border area and establish a joint committee of the two countries in order to ensure a final peaceful resolution of the Yenga problem is consistent with our commitment to the peaceful resolution of international disputes. Indeed, our steadfast commitment to global peace and security is evident in our participation in United Nations peacekeeping missions in Lebanon, Somalia, the Sudan, South Sudan and Timor-Leste. The 2012 presidential, parliamentary and local council elections scheduled to take place on 17 November are barely 46 days away. With the support of our bilateral and multilateral partners, preparations are in full swing for the conduct of the third round of such elections within the decade following the end of our civil conflict. The Government is fully aware that the conduct and outcome of the elections will be a critical benchmark for assessing the level of our gains in the area of peace consolidation and democracy. The Government, relevant stakeholders and our development partners are therefore expressly determined to exert a collective effort and use every available opportunity to ensure that we put solid mechanisms in place for the peaceful conduct and achievement of transparent and credible democratic elections. It is in that regard that, in May this year, all key stakeholders in the country committed themselves to a credible and violence-free process by signing the declaration on the 2012 Elections. We have thus consolidated the electoral laws and established electoral offences courts to ensure the legitimacy and credibility of the electoral process. As Coordinator of the Committee of Ten Heads of State of the African Union for the reform of the United Nations Security Council, I am pleased to report to the General Assembly that, at the last AU Summit held in Addis Ababa, African heads of State reaffirmed their strong commitment to the Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration containing the African common position on the reform of the Security Council. To that end, we are committed to building alliances in support of the African common position with various interest groups and Member States engaged in the intergovernmental negotiations, with a view to achieving reform of the Security Council as soon as possible. In that pursuit, member States of the African Union have been called upon to include the issue of Security Council reform among the priorities in their foreign policies. In that respect, Africa continues to engage in the intergovernmental negotiations with an open-door policy aimed at correcting the historical injustice suffered by Africa as the only continent not represented in the permanent-member category of the Council and at the same time underrepresented in the non-permanent category. Since the Security Council remains at the centre of global governance in the maintenance of international peace and security, it is both imperative and compelling that the international community recognize the need described in the 2005 World Summit Outcome to make the Council more broadly representative, efficient and transparent in order to enhance its effectiveness and the legitimacy and implementation of its decisions, as well as the need to democratize the Council’s decision-making process and correct the lingering historical injustice inf licted upon the continent. In that regard, we urge the wider United Nations membership to work with Africa to urgently address that injustice. Africa is not being unreasonable in its demand, and we all know that procrastination on the matter has led to a travesty of justice and fair play, which undermines the dignity of our peoples. We are determined at the national level to surmount all impediments on our way to development and to delivering fully on all the projects in our “Agenda for Change”. We are confident that with sustained support from our bilateral and multilateral partners, we shall promote socioeconomic progress and provide a better standard of living for our people in an atmosphere of peace and security. What we cannot afford at this time in our history is to fail in our duty and obligation to provide peace, security and sustainable development for our people. At the global level, as we look at the work that lies before the sixty-seventh session, let us not lose sight of our shared obligation to ensure a peaceful and secure world by resolving our differences through constructive dialogue and thus strengthen the existing mediation mechanisms provided in the Charter and institutionalized within the United Nations system.﻿At the outset, allow me to congratulate Mr. Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I am confident that he will successfully steer the proceedings of this session in an efficient and effective manner. I assure him of Malaysia’s full cooperation and support throughout his presidency. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the previous President, His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for his leadership and guidance throughout the sixty-sixth session. The release of the distasteful and insulting film Innocence of Muslims caused a wave of widespread protests across the Muslim world. The problem was compounded by the publication of offensive caricatures, which further angered Muslims. It is hard to understand how those responsible could resort to such actions, knowing that they would offend and provoke 2 billion Muslims, as anything other than blatant and malicious intent and purpose. It is our obligation as peace-loving people and responsible Governments to prevent a small minority of bigots from sowing the seed of hatred between Muslims and the Western world. We categorize those people as extremists. They insult Islam and advocate religious hatred. Such extremists have shown absolutely no regard for the implications of their actions. While we condemn the irresponsible actions of those who intentionally incite hatred, we are equally saddened by the violent reaction that ensued. Expressing anger by resorting to violence, killing and destruction does not offer any solution to the problem and only results in further division and possibly more damage and loss of innocent lives. We condemn those responsible for the death of Ambassador Christopher Stevens and his colleagues in Benghazi. We are equally saddened by the loss of innocent lives, including those of women and children, during emotionally charged demonstrations. A life lost is one too many. Those who made the video and drew the caricatures, as well as those who resorted to killing, are equally guilty of extremism and must be held accountable and brought to justice. I believe that it is time to look deeper into the heart of the problem and dwell on the real debate — the relationship between freedom of expression and social responsibilities, duties and obligations. The events we have witnessed cannot be defended under the pretext of human rights, freedoms and liberties. A line should be drawn when the prejudicial effect outweighs everything else. Malaysia has always maintained that freedom, including the freedom of expression, comes with responsibility. The drafters of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, I am sure, did not have denigration in mind when they cited the need to promote and protect the freedom of expression. Human rights need to be guaranteed by taking into account the cultural and historical sensitivities of a society. Nevertheless, they should also be applied without selectivity or discrimination. When we discriminate against women, it is called sexism; when African-Americans are criticized and vilified, it is called racism; when the same is done to the Jews, people call it anti-Semitism; and laws are legislated to persecute the perpetrators. But why is it that when Muslims are stigmatized and defamed, it is defended as freedom of expression? In his statement during the International Day of Peace on 21 September, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon rightly said: “We cannot let the voices of extremists dominate the debate and inflame tensions. We need voices of moderation and solidarity” (SG/SM/14522). The Prime Minister of Malaysia, two years ago in the Assembly, advocated a global movement of moderates and called for all people of the world to join the chorus of moderates so as to drown out the voices of extremists. Embracing moderation is an important value that should be ingrained in every society. Moderation comes with a high degree of tolerance, trust and mutual understanding. It uses dialogue as an important tool to resolve disputes. With relative political peace comes economic stability and socioeconomic development in the given country. It is therefore important that we continue to practice moderation as we face the rising tide of extremism. Moderation is the best response to extremism. The first international conference of the Global Movement of Moderates held in Kuala Lumpur in January this year was well attended by over 500 participants from all over the world. It affirmed the importance of moderation in the context of its application to global issues and situations, especially to matters that relate to social, financial, religious and international politics. The Global Movement of Moderates has gained the recognition and support of the Commonwealth of Nations, the Non-Aligned Movement and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. We believe that the Global Movement of Moderates provides an effective platform for the global response to extremism. The theme of the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly, “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means,” is timely because it reiterates the core principles and values of the United Nations in facing continuing conflicts and situations around the world. We continue to have serious concerns regarding the situation in the Syrian Arab Republic. We condemn the violence and senseless killing that have taken place and that continue to take place. As we contemplate the next step forward, we have to bear in mind that any measure we take must be in the interests of the Syrian people. It is not about who is wrong or right; it is about putting an end to the bloodshed and suffering, bringing a peaceful and inclusive resolution to the conflict. The unabated violence and killing must stop immediately. The parties involved have an equal responsibility for ensuring the end to the appalling atrocities. Military aggression and armed confrontation will serve only to exacerbate the problem and can never be a solution to the crisis; instead, they diminish any little hope there is for peaceful settlement. We earnestly hope that with the appointment of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi as the new Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria, a peaceful solution to the Syrian crisis will be found. Towards that end, the support of all parties, including the involvement of the United Nations, is very crucial. The situation in the occupied Palestinian territories remains bleak. For more than six decades, day after day, month after month, the people of Palestine have continued to see their lands confiscated to make way for illegal settlements. They have continued to see their families, including their children, displaced and forced from their homes. Elsewhere, we are quick in calling for action against those who force others to live under oppression and without freedom and dignity. But we are unashamed in not taking strong and decisive action to ensure that the long-deprived Palestinians can exercise their right to their homeland and regain their dignity within the community of nations. Surely, the international community, especially the more powerful and inf luential nations, could do more to bring Israel to the negotiating table for a two-State solution, whereby the State of Israel and the State of Palestine could exist side by side in peace and security. How can we continue to live in the face of that glaring injustice without feeling an iota of guilt for not doing enough to bring to an end this long-standing issue? Like others in this Hall, Malaysia welcomes the convening of the inaugural High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law held earlier this week. At that meeting, we adopted a solemn Declaration that the rule of law shall apply to all States equally (resolution 67/1). We rededicated ourselves to resolving disputes by peaceful means and in conformity with the principles of justice and international law. We also committed ourselves to upholding the right to self-determination of peoples who remain under foreign occupation, and to end impunity for violations of international humanitarian and human rights law. With that declaration, it is time for the international community to put pressure on Israel to fulfil its international obligations. At the same time, Israel must stop all illegal settlement activities in the West Bank as well as in East Jerusalem. We are particularly concerned by the threats to invade or divide the site of Al-Aqsa Mosque, which would be a breach of Israel’s obligations as an occupying Power. It is a holy site for Muslims and Christians alike. Furthermore, Israel must lift the illegal blockade over Gaza that has caused too much hardship for the people. It must also protect the people under its occupation, fulfil its international obligations and respect international law. Most importantly, it ought to have direct talks with the Palestinian Authority in conditions that clearly demonstrate its goodwill and sincerity. A peaceful two- State solution, accompanied by sustainable peace in the region, should be the ultimate goal for all concerned. Recognizing Palestine and welcoming it into the community of nations has become a contentious issue. Palestine is punished for wanting to become a rightful Member of the United Nations. The feasibility of a two-State solution is being questioned. However, what choice does Palestine have? Furthermore, how would becoming a Member of the United Nations harm Palestine’s sincere efforts for independence? The issue of Palestine’s membership of the United Nations is tied to another bigger issue that is of particular concern to Malaysia. Allow me to elaborate. One hundred and thirty-two countries recognize the State of Palestine. That number reflects more than two thirds of the membership of the United Nations. Yet, the Security Council — or more accurately, those members on which veto power has been conferred — are given the authority to determine the fate of Palestine’s membership, irrespective of the opinions of the majority. That is just one of a host of reasons that the United Nations, especially the Security Council, needs to be reformed. The Security Council will need to be able to cope with the many challenges that the international community faces. There are so many instances when it has failed to take action when action was needed most. It has failed to do so because of the veto power that has been conferred on the five permanent members. Thus, time and again, it has become the victim of its own creation. The composition of the Security Council should also reflect current global realities. It should be democratic and accountable so as to be able to fulfil its mandate to effectively maintain international peace and security. It is ironic that the very institution that was formed in 1945 to promote and defend democracy among its Member States should itself be undemocratic. Virtually every aspect of reform has been argued one way or another. There have been many proposals on the table, but none has made any headway. Therefore, despite the many years that the issue of Security Council reform has been on the agenda of the United Nations, we are no closer to actual reform than when we first started. We call on all Member States to be realistic and to find workable solutions to reform. There is a need to approach reform with renewed political will if we genuinely want to see progress towards achieving a more efficient and effective United Nations. How long can we go on like this? How long can we avoid the need to reform the Security Council as well as the United Nations as a whole? It would be remiss of me not to mention the meeting that many consider the most important one to have taken place this year — namely, the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held in Brazil last June. Although the summit is over, much work remains. The actions mandated in the outcome document need our close follow-up, monitoring and participation for their successful implementation. Strengthening sustainable development and environmental institutions, formulating a financial strategy and developing the mechanisms for facilitating technology transfer are among the important areas on which we need to act in the year ahead. Accordingly, we need to launch a process to determine sustainable development goals. The goals should be supported by concrete action plans, with details on the various areas mentioned in order to implement them. Malaysia looks forward to working constructively and contributing to that process. I believe that we share similar concerns on all the issues I have raised today. Bringing about adjustment or settlement of disputes or situations does not concern only the parties involved in a dispute or situation, but is the joint collective responsibility of the international community. In line with this year’s theme, we assure the Assembly of our commitment to ensuring lasting global peace and security through peaceful means by embracing the principles of moderation.﻿The Secretary-General has shared with us the priorities that he plans to implement during the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly. His warning concerning the multiplicity of new threats and his clear-sighted recognition of their interconnections should inspire and guide our work. The maintenance of international peace and security — need it be said again — are the very essence of the mission of our Organization. What do we see before us? Crises and threats to peace and security are multiplying and are often even mutually reinforcing, along with the endangerment of human rights. What global vision do we share of the challenges that confront our planet, its States and its peoples? By bearing in mind that it is our mission and urgent need to uphold our vision, which calls on us to support the five priorities of the programme of action that have been drawn up for the next five years and submitted to us by the Secretary-General. Since he has invited us to so, we wish to underline the need to prioritize the strengthening of the United Nations system as well as the development of partnerships in all areas of its activity. The President rightly sought to focus the general debate of this session on the subject of the peaceful settlement of international situations and disputes. This historic debate, launched at the beginning of the week by the General Assembly, has shown that respect for the rule of law, at both the national and the international levels, is indispensable for the establishment of responsible societies that are able to promote cooperation and ensure the well-being of their citizens. Recent history leads us to take a serious look at the current difficulties confronting the world. While last year we welcomed the magnificent spark of democracy that was kindled in the Arab world, it is intolerable now that minority factions and extremists are threatening the hopes and dampening the expectations of people who aspire to live in liberty. The Government of the Principality of Monaco echoes those who have condemned the acts of violence perpetrated both by the authorities and by opposition groups in the Syrian Arab Republic, where the situation only continues to deteriorate. I would also like to convey my full support for the efforts made by the International Committee of the Red Cross and its resolve in seeking to ensure that humanitarian needs are met. Clearly, that is involves ensuring that each and every one respect the rule of international humanitarian law as the minimum requirement for meeting the basic, elementary moral standards of our peoples, standards that do not, unfortunately, seem to be shared by all. We are equally concerned by the recent events in the Sahel region, including in Mali, which are growing worse. The Principality of Monaco, which is involved in various humanitarian efforts in the region, supports all such actions by the international community, given the urgency and gravity of the situation. We will support a strategy established by the United Nations that can address the issues of security, governance, development, human rights and humanitarian aspects. The values that we are committed to uphold in adopting the Charter of the United Nations are based on our common humanity and on the recognition of our differences, which are at the very core of our humanity. Allow me, in that regard, to pay tribute to all those who have been committed to serving those values on the ground, often paying with their lives. They seek to uphold the aims and principles that bring us together here in this forum. Our authorities have resolutely condemned all attacks perpetrated against diplomatic and consular missions and personnel. We must all ensure the obligation of guaranteeing their protection in all circumstances. At a time when the world is facing worrying developments, the theme that the President has selected for this session of the General Assembly merits the unanimous support of all in our community. Aware of the challenges, I would like to take the opportunity to commend Mr. Vuk Jeremić, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, on his election and to assure the Assembly of my delegation’s full support. More than ever before, we need to resort to the peaceful settlement of our disputes and seek to prevent rather than react to events. In the 1950s, Secretary- General Dag Hammarskjöld urged us to be mindful of the need to respond at an early stage to crises in order to avoid the outbreak of disputes between parties or the conf lagration of a dispute into an open conflict, or in the event that a conflict does break out, to ensure that it can be contained. We have been caught unaware and so many ongoing problems in the year 2012 have gone unsolved. We have been largely successful in ensuring that international law prevails over the right to wage war. However, the involvement of our Organization in conflict prevention still falls quite short, as avowals and statements of intent on their own are insufficient. It is therefore our common duty to strengthen understanding, tolerance and mutual respect. As was recalled by the Secretary-General here on 13 September, as well as by his predecessor, one of the strongest factors for conflict prevention, and thus for the inculcation of an authentic culture of peace, is education. That kind of prevention is aimed at enrolling the young generations to whom we owe a future. The challenges are manifold. Among them, I would single out the economic and financial crisis, which has affected the overwhelming majority of our States since 2008. We can overcome the crisis, creating employment while protecting our environmental heritage. But in order to do so, we need an ambitious long-term vision, and that is why, in spite of the budget cuts, the crisis has compelled us to realize that we cannot afford to lose sight of the Millennium Development Goals — elimination of poverty and hunger; education; child and maternal health; and combatting pandemics, including HIV/AIDS and malaria, which sap humankind of its strength — which must remain uppermost on our agenda. The upcoming deadline must encourage us to do still more to intensify our efforts in order to ensure their achievement. In 2015, we will adopt a new programme of action, based on the results achieved and on the new challenges to be met. In his address to the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, His Serene Highness Prince Albert II of the Principality of Monaco welcomed the fact that we are progressing towards a shared definition of sustainable development goals. Those goals will frame our actions at the international, national and local levels, and in turn, that will make the implementation of our commitments more effective and more transparent. One of those objectives should emphasize the sustainable development of oceans and on the importance of the blue economy. That objective should concern all sectors that depend on ocean resources and maritime areas. It is urgent that that objective be comprehensive and sustainable so that those sectors can continue to benefit from economic, social and environmental services. Accordingly, our delegation will support all initiatives seeking to improve the coordination and effectiveness of the United Nations work in the oceans. Indeed, we believe that that is the right path to follow in order to ultimately ensure the sustainable use and management of the oceans and thereby their conservation. The fate of future generations lies in our hands. For that reason, we are obliged to ensure that the Doha Climate Change Conference is a success. It is therefore crucial that we reach agreement on the establishment of a second period of commitments under the Kyoto Protocol. We therefore commit ourselves to working positively and effectively in the negotiations on reaching a new global post-2020 climate agreement, taking into account the needs of the most vulnerable. His Serene Highness Prince Albert II welcomes the celebration next year of the twentieth anniversary of Monaco’s joining the United Nations as a Member State. In that connection, Monaco wishes to express its resolve to contribute to the further strengthening of our Organization to the extent that a small State can do so. Members may rest assured that the Principality welcomes the Assembly’s two-fold intention of further involving itself in the field of development and establishing an advisory framework that seeks to enhance the cooperation between the General Assembly and international financial institutions. On the occasion of the twentieth anniversary of the Forum of Small States, of which Monaco is a member, and also in its capacity as a member of the Global Governance Group, the Principality intends to play its full role in the work of those bodies. The magnitude of the challenges and crises that we all face have shown that the size of a State is not the deciding factor when it comes to resolving such problems. Rather, it is solely our ability to work together and cooperate that enables us to respond to everyday needs and that will lead us on the path towards international peace and security. ﻿It is my distinct honour to address the Assembly on behalf of the Government and people of Belize. I wish to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I am confident that he will guide the deliberations of the Assembly in a forthright and skilful manner. I take this opportunity to reaffirm Belize’s unequivocal commitment to the principles, goals and ideals of the United Nations, and to pledge our unconditional support for the success of its endeavours. Based on its performance over the past 67 years, we feel confident to opine that, whereas the United Nations is unquestionably imperfect, just as our democracy is imperfect, our United Nations is also, however — like democracy — the best institution devised by mankind dedicated exclusively to achieving a safer, more just and prosperous world. As the twenty-first century inexorably evolves, laying bare the fragility and vulnerability of our planet to dangerous global forces, both natural and man-made, which threaten the existence of all living things on our planet, the genius and prescience of the founding fathers in creating the United Nations is illuminated beyond doubt. It is probably debatable whether in 1945 the imperative for mankind to work together in harmony to ensure the survival of our very planet was appreciated by all nations. It may be questionable whether it was universally appreciated in 1945 that it was absolutely necessary to have a global institution dedicated to the protection of mankind against man’s penchant for causing destruction as well as against Nature’s destructive elements and forces. Today, however, the need for the United Nations is not only manifest to everyone, but there are clarion calls for it to do more and to be more inclusive, representative and democratic, calls to which Belize adds its voice. My country gained its independence largely in consequence of a resolution of the United Nations calling upon the United Kingdom to grant us our independence by the end of 1981, thereby bringing to an end more than 100 years of colonial administration. But whereas we attained our political independence in September 1981, our sovereignty over our homeland is still being threatened by a territorial claim dating back to the post-1940s by our neighbour Guatemala. We therefore find the theme for this session’s debate a timely and fitting one, namely, bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means. Happily, I can today inform the Assembly that the Governments of Guatemala and Belize both have agreed to a recommendation of the Secretary-General of the Organization of American States to allow the Guatemalan claim to be adjudicated upon by the International Court of Justice if that is the will of the citizens of our respective countries, as expressed in simultaneous referendums to be held on 6 October 2013. The resolution of the territorial differendum between Belize and Guatemala will not only consolidate Belize’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, but also enhance the peace and security of our subregion and be conducive to the strengthening and deepening of our regional integration process. Belizeans are a peace-loving people. We abhor conflict. We believe in the rule of law. And we have faith in the United Nations. With almost half of our population under the age of 25 and approximately 37 per cent under the age of 18, our nation’s future and destiny are inextricably tied to the welfare of our children. And in order for them to attain their full potential, they must be properly nurtured and fed with balanced, nutritious meals. They must be safely and comfortably housed and they must be properly educated and trained, beginning from the time they are in the cradle. Our children must be trained and educated especially in science and technology. They must be trained to think creatively, to be fiercely competitive, to be industrious and to be prudent in the management of our resources. Our Government is convinced that it is only with this type of training and development that our citizens will be able to compete successfully in the world market and generate the wealth that is required to transform our society into a truly developed nation. If we fail our children today, we are setting ourselves up to fail in our common future. With a view to attaining development objectives, our Government has initiated some ambitious, comprehensive pro-poor policies. For example, our Government is committed to a programme to ensure that low-income Belizean families do not have to face the difficult choice between sending their children to school or buying food. Qualifying families in underserved rural or urban areas can already rely on our conditional cash-transfer programme and on our food pantry programme. We provide education subsidies to families of children attending secondary school. We continue to emphasize and expand early childhood education and to improve access to alternative education. We are investing in improving the quality of the health care to which our citizens have access. As a small State that took its place among the nations of the world only 31 years ago, Belize is experiencing all the growing pains that naturally afflict the young. Furthermore, our situation is aggravated by the fact our population is less than 350,000 persons, who trace their origins to all over the globe and are consequently multi-ethnic, multi-faith, multilingual and multicultural. With such a diverse population, the urgency of social cohesion cannot be overstated. When we add to this mix the challenges which today confront us all, occasioned by natural disasters such as climate change and by man-made ones such as the global financial collapse and transnational criminal activity, it becomes readily apparent that it is wholly beyond the capacity of any one Government to discharge its obligation towards its citizens solely through national initiatives and devices and solely with domestic resources. For this reason, the Belize Government has embraced the multilateral system and our cooperation partners around the world. We are partnering with them in many fields, including economic, social, environmental and humanitarian, in our perennial quest to better secure all our citizens and develop them to their fullest potential. In this regard, United Nations funds, programmes and agencies such as the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Population Fund, UNICEF, UNESCO, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, and the World Health Organization are working tirelessly with countries like Belize to carry out the decisions of the international community and support efforts to meet the aspirations of our people. Belize avails itself of this opportunity to thank all our development partners for the tremendous contributions they make daily to the security and development of our country and people. We know that more can and, indeed, must be done to raise our ambitions in delivering for the poor, for the needy and for the vulnerable. It is therefore urgent that we move to shape a post-2015 development agenda that reflects our equal stake in a common future, addresses the concerns of the wealthy and strong, and meets the needs of the poor and the vulnerable. Belize remains fully supportive of all regional initiatives. We have sought and obtained membership in the Organization of American States, the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), the Central American Integration System and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States. We work closely in all these subregional groupings on the issues of concern to us such as climate change, security and economic development. And here we feel constrained to point out that the impact of climate change on our region has been direct, dire and devastating, compelling us to join forces with our CARICOM partners and with the wider Alliance of Small Island States to advance our interests in the climate change negotiation process. In that connection, Belize is proud of its contribution as host nation of the CARICOM Climate Change Centre, which is tasked to provide technical and scientific advice to inform subregional policy positions in executing adaptation and mitigation projects in our subregion and to raise awareness of the deleterious impact of climate change in our respective countries. We thank the staff of that institution for the sterling work they are doing. With respect to the nefarious enterprises of transnational trafficking in humans, drugs and arms, Belize subscribes to the view that a regional response is imperative to combat these pernicious scourges. Our countries are not the markets for these illicit commodities. Our countries do not benefit from the immense profits generated by these criminal enterprises, yet we bear the burden of having to divert scarce resources, badly needed for development, to combat the activities of these merchants of death and destruction. Indeed, our countries are overwhelmed by the grim tasks which now befall us of having to mend the shattered lives of our children and of mourning their untimely deaths. That is why Belize is committed to the implementation of the Central America Regional Security Strategy and to working with our partners to ensure that the Strategy has the level of support necessary to guarantee that it is effective. Our region, Central America and the Caribbean, has been labelled as among the most violent regions of the world, with homicide rates that have reached crisis levels, occasioned largely by the use of small arms and light weapons. But almost all small arms and light weapons found in our region start out as legally manufactured and legally traded arms. Every Member of the United Nations is involved in some measure in this trade, which we believe is of dubious value to mankind. It is therefore deeply regrettable that, despite what appeared to be an emerging consensus and despite the underlying global urgency of a multilateral response, the conclusion of an arms trade treaty has so far been beyond the reach of the international community. It is urgent, in our view, that we redouble our efforts to break the gridlock and reach the compromise necessary to arrive at a consensus on an arms trade treaty as soon as possible. The States of Latin America and the Caribbean are almost all classified — wrongly and unjustly, in our view — as middle-income countries. That is a generic classification that masks the varied challenges our countries continue to face arising from poverty, high levels of income inequality, economic vulnerabilities and debt. As a consequence, all our countries have been calling for a change in paradigm so that the classification of countries as middle-income countries no longer guides development cooperation. We urge all our development partners to heed this call and address this situation. Finally, we would like to echo the call of other Members of this institution who have advocated the lifting of the economic embargo against Cuba, which continues to fetter the development of that sister Caribbean nation and its people. Belize also notes and joins those positive voices that support Taiwan. We therefore urge Taiwan’s full participation in the United Nations. We ask also that urgent attention be given to the concerns of the people of Israel and Palestine, whose legitimate expectation to live peaceful, fruitful lives continues to be frustrated. And we stand in solidarity with the citizens of the Middle East, particularly those in Syria, in their quest for those democratic freedoms to which we all aspire. As we move ahead to take on the new challenges that will emerge during the sixty-seventh session, as we redouble our efforts to address the long-standing problems our world faces, and as we renew our faith in the multilateral system, the role of the Assembly and of our United Nations Organization will become increasingly critical and relevant. This is the only body that is truly universal in character and which commands legitimacy and authority. The entire world looks to the United Nations to solve the multitudinous problems which beset mankind. In the circumstances, the United Nations is simply just too big to fail in the discharge of its singular obligation: to safeguard the well-being and safety of humankind and planet Earth.﻿I would like to congratulate Mr. Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to commend Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for the manner in which he guided the proceedings of the Assembly last year. Just over two weeks ago, Somalia took a bold and decisive step away from decades of division, disorder and conflict, and instead towards the reconstitution of a more representative, more democratic Somali Republic, at peace with itself, with its neighbours and with the rest of the world. On 1 August this year, a National Constituent Assembly adopted the new Somali Constitution and on 20 August a new Parliament was sworn in, which elected our new President, Hassan Sheikh Mohamud, on 10 September. In the coming weeks, the President will appoint a Prime Minister and a new cabinet will be duly established. Let me take this opportunity to convey the sincere regrets of President Mohamud. He would have liked to be here himself to address the Assembly on this great occasion. However, the tremendous scale and urgency of the challenges facing him as leader of Somalia and the demands of his new role did not permit him to travel here to New York to present his remarks in person. He asked me to come here to convey his warm greetings and his vision for Somalia’s future. For more than two decades of crisis, the Somali people have suffered and endured, but we have not done so alone. The United Nations has stood by us, providing humanitarian assistance to those of our people in need, helping us to rebuild from the ruins of war, bringing us time and again to the negotiating table to resolve our differences and maintaining the dignity of the Somali nation by keeping our f lag f lying throughout these long, dark years. As we emerge from the long, dark days, I wish to express my personal thanks, and those of the Somali people, to the Secretary-General and his Special Representative, Augustine Mahiga, for their tireless support and crucial role in helping to open this new chapter in Somali history. Somalia’s progress is also due in great measure to the self less courage and sacrifice of our brothers and sisters in the African Union, including our closest neighbours, whose forces have fought long and hard, with so many laying down their lives in the battle to give our children a better future. With the support of the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) and other partners, our armed forces are becoming increasingly experienced and capable, but we will need AMISOM’s steadfast presence and mentoring for some time to come, and we call upon our brothers in the African Union to renew their commitment as we move forward to assume our own responsibilities in full. We thank our international partners who are diligently supporting AMISOM, especially the European Union and the United States, among others. The members of the League of Arab States and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation have also extended the hand of friendship to the Somali people during these difficult times. We are especially grateful to the Government and people of Turkey for their faith, courage and leadership in ending our long isolation and building bridges between Somalia and the rest of the world. But now, with all these partners standing by us we must increasingly learn to travel our own path with our own energies, developing the ability to stand on our own feet and step free from reliance on our kind friends. Already, the Somali diaspora from around the world are returning to the country with investment and skills that will build the future Somalia. We can also learn from how peace and growing prosperity have developed in other parts of the country. We must build on the return of normality in Mogadishu, and elsewhere in Somalia, and on the growing public confidence in the future. It is the Somali people in the villages and the nomadic pastoralists, with their resilience, drive and dynamism, who are best placed to lend real stability to Somalia’s future. The end of Somalia’s transition was brought about by the tremendous joint efforts of the Transitional Federal Government, Somali regional administrations, civil society and our traditional elders. Against all odds, within one year Somalis were able to adopt a new provisional Constitution, create a new Parliament and elect a new President, heralding the beginning of a new era. This one-year experience has shown several things. When we put our minds to it, we Somalis are capable of overcoming tremendous obstacles and delivering on expectations. It has shown that we can effect our political transitions within our own country. It has shown that Somalis are indeed ready for a new chapter and are calling for a permanent Government that can build on the foundations of this remarkable year. Somalia’s transition has officially ended, but the work of rebuilding our nation continues. The new administration has four short years to translate agreements and objectives made on paper into concrete, tangible progress for our people, and to place Somalia firmly on an irreversible path to enduring peace and growing prosperity. The most urgent challenge is to restore peace and security throughout Somali territory. Our forces, together with our African Union allies, are making great progress in that regard. But a stable peace cannot be achieved through military means alone. We must practise the politics of inclusion, establishing a credible, representative, inclusive and capable Government — a Government by the people, for the people, not a Government of the few, serving the interests of the few. Initially, that Government must be about delivering real governance and connections with the people. It must be about the process of building local representation, addressing community justice and seeking to build basic services, rather than about distant institutions of Government from Mogadishu, or even provincial centres. Power and responsibility must be devolved as close to the people as possible, in accordance with the principles of federalism. It will be important to recognize the existence of other Somali authorities, as well as de facto political and military forces across the country, with which we will work to establish a vibrant, prosperous and stable representative Government democracy, firmly adhering to and grounded in Somali and Islamic values. We will also require a fair and independent judiciary, one resistant to executive interference, and one that will meet the needs and earn the trust of ordinary citizens, while bringing an end to the culture of impunity that has gripped our nation for the past two decades. We have repeatedly extended an olive branch to the Government’s adversaries, and, although this has been repeatedly rejected, our new President will continue to reach out and offer peace. Al-Shabaab is a complex and heterogeneous movement. Most of its members are ordinary citizens who have aligned themselves with Al-Shabaab out of fear or a sense of grievance. At the same time we must also be honest with ourselves and admit that some of the members come from a nationalist, conservative faction of our fractured country, which has been disillusioned and damaged by decades of conflict, and they have sought refuge in an extreme and harsh source of justice and security. To them we must prove that there is a better way. To them we have always said and will continue to say, “Brothers and sisters, lay down your arms and let us talk”. We Somalis have a saying — after every war comes peace. So let us remember that we have no choice as a nation but to live together. Let us settle our differences through dialogue and compromise, so that there is no longer any justification for any Somali to take up arms against another. To those few ideological extremists in Al-Shabaab’s ranks who remain committed to the use of terror and the murder of innocents to achieve their aims, we say, “There is no place in Somali society, nor in international society, for you and your violent creed. We will fight you until Somalia is once again a nation founded on the peace, tolerance and management that constitute the true spirit of the great religion of Islam”. As we focus our energies on these immediate challenges, we must nevertheless keep our longer- term goals clearly in view. The new Government understands clearly that its purpose is not to entrench itself indefinitely in power, but to lay the foundation for a democratic system of governance, anchored in Islamic values and based on universal, competitive elections, by August 2016. The new Government has just four short years within which to establish the states and regions of this federation, and to do so in a way that unifies our people rather than dividing them. We must validate the new Constitution through consultation and referendum, and establish systems of governance that serve the interests of the Somali people. We must design representative electoral systems that serve to heal the divisions of our society rather than to aggravate them. As we move away from transitional Government into the era of permanent Government, we must establish a new compact for national coexistence in which the aspirations of all Somalis, not only some, are reflected. We recognize that the bonds of love and solidarity that bound us together in 1960 have been heavily damaged and sorely tested. The talks initiated earlier this year between the Transitional Federal Government and the Somaliland administration have begun well, and we intend to continue them. We will not use military or political coercion to bring out an artificial unity; we want a genuine unity that results from negotiations, mutual respect and mutual agreement. The durability of our stabilization efforts will depend in large part upon our ability to revive and develop the Somali economy. Security and durable peace cannot exist without jobs and food, and therefore we must work hard to ensure that food is on the table of the average Somali family, to create job opportunities and to enable Somalis to work for themselves. Our country is abundant in resources; we have the longest coastline in Africa, 9 million acres of fertile land, the highest per capita number of livestock in the world. We have oil and minerals. We are strategically located at the gateway of the Middle East and Africa, at the conf luence of the Indian Ocean and the Red Sea. Our challenge as Somalis is to use those resources to bring our country and our people back onto the global economic playing field. On the topic of resources, we are committed to strengthening the Government’s financial accountability. Somalia is a poor country, and we cannot afford corruption. We seek the assistance of our international partners in establishing and strengthening transparent systems of public financial management. The problems of Somalia have spilled far beyond our borders. Foreign countries have taken in hundreds of thousands of Somalis f leeing the crisis in our country, at considerable sacrifice to their own citizens; Somali pirates have become the scourge of shipping far from our shores. Extremists from across the world have used our territory as a base from which to plan and launch attacks against foreign countries. As Somalia reclaims its status as a full member of the international community, we must acknowledge our responsibility as a nation, both for the proliferation of these problems and for their eventual resolution. We recognize the urgency of tackling these threats to international security, but we are also conscious of their complexity and of the fact that lasting solutions can be achieved only through ref lection, consultation, the force of law and only, as a last resort, the judicious use of force. We intend to engage with our international partners on all of these fronts, as we strengthen our internal capacity to address these challenges. The road ahead is long, but we, the Somali people, are committed, and we are ready. We have created the guideposts, and we have chosen a new leadership to help us move forward. We are grateful for the support of the world community; we would not be here today without its moral, political and financial support. Most dear to us is the personal sacrifice made by our African brothers and sisters who came in person to help us protect our country and people. We cannot thank them enough, and we hope one day to be able to repay them. As many today have noted, the United Nations was founded on the conviction that the nations of the world could come together in the spirit of cooperation to tackle their common problems for the sake of the whole of humanity. The world is going through a challenging period — economic crises, religious tensions and resource disputes. Every nation has its own challenges and priorities. And yet we come together as the United Nations to forge a common way forward, because we recognize that this small Earth is all the space we have, and we must find a way to share it and coexist peacefully. As Somalis, we have learned this hard lesson through bitter experience, and we are living through it every day, each time another young man chooses to take his own life and the lives of others; each time a young mother has to bury a child. Let us not forget that in rebuilding a nation, or in steering the world to a better place, we are dealing with the lives of human beings, each life as precious as the next. For the future of our children, we must work harder to make our world peaceful and prosperous. In that context, on behalf of the Somali people, I want to convey our condolences to the United States and Algeria on the recent violent loss of their senior diplomats. Diplomacy is a peaceful calling and the foundation of the United Nations, and we must protect diplomats for their important role in promoting dialogue and better understanding across countries and cultures. The members of the Assembly are not strangers to conflict and war. Many countries have experienced violence and destruction equal to or greater than my own. But few other countries in modern times have experienced such a prolonged period of statelessness: a nation without a recognized Government, a valid passport or a convertible currency. But it is not just the material attributes of statehood that we have missed. To be stateless in this world of States is injurious to a people’s identity, to its rights and privileges as a nation, and to its dignity. It is time for us to reclaim Somalia’s rightful place in the community of nations, to shoulder our duties and obligations, and to place our country in the service of peace, security and prosperity on this planet we share.﻿At the outset, it gives me great pleasure to convey to Mr. Vuk Jeremić my sincere congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. We wish him every success in the performance of his duties and responsibilities, particularly under the current critical circumstances in which the international community finds itself at present. I would also take this opportunity to express my deep gratitude and appreciation to his predecessor, Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, who fulfilled his mandate with wisdom and professionalism. Moreover, it gives me pleasure to commend once more the great efforts of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in serving the Organization and promoting its message aimed at achieving international peace and security, especially under difficult and critical circumstances. The Palestinian issue, which is at the core of the Arab-Israeli conflict, has been a constant challenge for the United Nations since its inception more than 60 years ago. The cause of the stalemate is Israel’s attitude. We all know how intransigent Israel has been in its positions, which have undermined negotiations and have emptied all discussions of any meaning. Moreover, Israel has taken unilateral actions that could lead to more complications in the occupied Palestinian territories and to undermining the efforts of Arab countries and others in the international community to reach a just, comprehensive and lasting solution by establishing an independent, viable and contiguous Palestinian State, with Jerusalem as its capital. The situation requires that the international community, as represented by the United Nations, move quickly in order to put an end to the calamity that the situation represents for the Palestinian people and provide all manner of support and assistance for the Palestinian Authority. My country finds that Palestine must receive full membership in the United Nations, as that is its natural and legitimate right, and we should all help the Palestinians to achieve that objective. For its part, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is sparing no effort in fulfilling its commitment to the peace process with respect to our Palestinian brethren by providing various types of support and assistance. The issue of Syria is a very complex and exacerbated one and has led to the killing and displacement of tens of thousands of people. The international community has shown its inability to act, because of divisions in the Security Council and because of the failure of all Arab and international initiatives as a result of the intransigence of the Syrian regime, which still believes that it can use the power of its security apparatus to end the crisis without taking into account the high humanitarian cost. Since the first day of the crisis, my country has been dealing with it in accordance with the framework and resolutions of international legitimacy and with full respect for the principles of human rights and international humanitarian law, through the Gulf Cooperation Council, the League of Arab States, the United Nations and the outcomes of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation summit meeting, held in Mecca in August, on the status of Syria. The success of Joint Special Representative Lakhdar Brahimi’s efforts will depend on the implementation of a new strategy and a clear plan that aims at achieving a peaceful transition of power. The Security Council must provide him with the support he needs to deal with the Syrian crisis at both the political and the humanitarian levels. We call upon our brothers in Yemen to continue to take the same positive and constructive approach and to stand against any foreign interference in their internal affairs in order to achieve security and stability and economic development throughout Yemen. Meanwhile, we call upon the international community to fulfil its pledges to Yemen by providing it with all forms of support and assistance to achieve those goals. Saudi Arabia reaffirms its full support for all international efforts undertaken in that context. We hosted the donors’ conference, held earlier this month, and participated in the Friends of Yemen conference held at the United Nations on 27 September 2012. The Iranian nuclear crisis is one of the most important challenges threatening international peace and security in general and the security and stability of the Arab Gulf region in particular. In that context, my country supports the ongoing efforts of the five plus one group to peacefully resolve the crisis in a manner that guarantees Iran and all countries in the region the right to the peaceful use of nuclear energy, in accordance with the criteria and procedures of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and under its supervision. On the other hand, we urge Iran to respond to those efforts and to implement the relevant Security Council resolutions by cooperating with IAEA inspectors monitoring its nuclear facilities in order to put an end to the crisis. In that regard, Saudi Arabia reaffirms the importance of making the Middle East a zone free from nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction. We also stress the need for Israel to place its nuclear facilities under the international inspection and safeguards of the IAEA and to sign the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The security and stability of the Arab Gulf region will be reached only through the establishment of good relations based on good-neighbourliness and constructive cooperation. Also, Iran must end its occupation of the three islands belonging to the United Arab Emirates. We must solve that issue peacefully, either through bilateral negotiations or by referring the issue to the International Court of Justice. The phenomenon of terrorism is one of the most important challenges that we currently face and the most important issue confronting the entire international community. We must eliminate terrorism in all its forms and sources. In order to fight that scourge and uproot it completely, the efforts of the Kingdom have not been limited to fighting it locally. We have reinforced efforts at all levels, whether regional or international, including by hosting an international conference in 2005 that resulted in many recommendations, including the establishment of the United Nations Counter- Terrorism Centre, which was launched in New York on 19 September 2011. Our world today urgently needs to spread the culture of tolerance and understanding and dialogue between the followers of different religions. Our efforts in that regard are led by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, aimed at achieving a dialogue between religions and cultures. That was reflected in the 2008 World Conference on Dialogue, held in Madrid. There was also a call for a high-level meeting hosted by the United Nations to promote dialogue and tolerance between different cultures and religions. Our call for mutual understanding, the acceptance of others and coexistence has led to the establishment in Vienna of the King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz International Centre for Dialogue among Followers of Religions and Cultures. In addition, the foresight of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques was demonstrated by his announcement of the establishment of a centre for dialogue among Islamic sects at the fourth special session of the Islamic Summit Conference, held in Mecca in August 2012. In that regard, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia strongly condemns the production by an irresponsible group of an offensive movie about the Prophet Muhammad — peace be upon him. The Kingdom asserts its rejection of all acts that offend or disdain religions and their sacred symbols. In that context, the Kingdom renews its call to enact the necessary laws and legislation that forbid the defamation and disdain of religions and their sacred symbols. Meanwhile, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia condemns the acts of violence against the United States foreign missions and any attack against any foreign or diplomatic mission around the world for any reason, regardless of the disagreement involved. Such acts prevent missions from carrying out their diplomatic functions and international interests. In the light of the ongoing discussion on the question of global economic, social and human development, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, through its participation in the Group of Twenty, emphasizes its support of the efforts aiming to stabilize the global economy, to advance world trade, to take further action to liberalize trade and to avoid protectionist policies that impede the efforts to end the global financial crisis. Meanwhile, we should not ignore the matter of helping developing States to overcome the consequences of that crisis. Furthermore, my country believes that efforts to reform the international financial, monetary and trade system should be channelled through existing institutions in order to build a global economic system that is based on a new partnership between developing and developed countries. That partnership should be established on the basis of cooperation, justice, equality, transparency and mutual benefits. Concerning energy security, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has spared no effort in the pursuit of stability in the world oil markets in a manner that has served the development and growth of the global economy. In that regard, we cannot ignore the fact that energy security is not limited to the security of supply, but includes the security of demand as well. My country believes that there should be a dialogue between energy producers and consumers in order to avoid volatility and speculation in prices, and to avoid imposing discriminatory taxes on oil. We welcome the establishment of the Secretariat of the International Energy Forum headquarters in Riyadh in order to promote such dialogue. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, as one of the United Nations founding countries, has since its inception participated in its meetings and conferences on the basis of its belief in the Organization’s noble principles and the role it can play in service to humanity and its advancement. In conclusion, I would like to reaffirm that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia will be at the vanguard of any international efforts aimed at implementing and achieving the principles and purposes of the United Nations and achieving the security, stability and prosperity to which we all aspire.﻿I bring warm greetings from the people of Kiribati, on whose behalf I am privileged to address this body once again. I join with those who have gone before me in congratulating Mr. Vuk Jeremić on assuming the presidency of the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. We find ourselves in challenging times. The work ahead of us during this session reflects those challenges. I am confident, however, that, under his able leadership, this Organization will continue its work to improve the quality of life for all members of our global community, in particular those who are most vulnerable. Let me also take this opportunity to acknowledge with appreciation the commendable leadership of his predecessor, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, during the most recent session of the General Assembly. I also recognize the unwavering dedication of our Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon. With his hand on the tiller, he continues to steer our Organization through the complex realities and challenges facing our world today towards our objectives. In particular, I would like to acknowledge with deep appreciation his personal commitment to the issue of climate change and the plight of the most vulnerable. We in Kiribati welcomed the Secretary-General to our country last year, during the first visit ever by anyone in his position to our part of the world. We were grateful for the opportunity to show him firsthand the challenges of living on the front lines of climate change. In the President’s opening statement yesterday (see A/67/PV.6), he reminded us that the core function of the Organization is the maintenance of peace and security. It is important that we all reflect on what we have done as individuals to achieve a more peaceful, secure and better world. We must ask ourselves if what we are doing is in the collective interest of all the peoples of this world or of just a select few. We must look at our efforts as leaders of this global family and ask ourselves if we are doing the right thing for our children and their children. I firmly believe that, with all the information available to us today, we should know exactly what needs to be done. We know what we have to do but, for whatever reason, we lack the courage, the fortitude and the vision to do it. We lack a sense of responsibility for each other. We are not willing to step out of our comfort zone and make the necessary sacrifices for the security and future of all members of our international community. It is never too late to do the right thing. History shows many examples where global action has resulted in global good. We have managed to secure a relatively more peaceful world. We have been able to address some of the major injustices of the past. We have come together to face down those who seek to achieve their objectives through terrorist means. However, we must remain vigilant, as new and emerging forms of security threats and injustices are cropping up to threaten our global family. This will be the seventh time I have had the honour to address the Assembly in my nine years as President of my country. Each time I have sought to convey the same message. Each time I have spoken of the real and existential threat to my nation. Each time I have reminded the Assembly of the need for urgent action to address climate change and sea level rise so as to ensure the long-term survival of nations like Kiribati. I frequently find myself watching my grandchildren and wondering what sort of a future we shall be leaving them. For their sake, climate change is an issue that I will continue to talk about for as long as I have breath in my body. This is a critical issue for the survival of our people and for all of humanity. It remains the greatest moral challenge of our time. Whether or not we are willing to acknowledge it, climate change and sea-level rise are the result of the unsustainable use of our planet’s resources. Economic growth at all costs must not be our mantra, particularly when it is those who will benefit the least from this growth who will pay the ultimate price. The Earth is not ours to do with as we please. We are merely trustees for future generations, and we ignore this reality at their peril. The Organization was founded on the fundamental principle of sovereign equality. Security issues affecting each of us must be given due recognition. We are grateful that the General Assembly agrees that climate change is a matter warranting the attention of the Security Council. I applaud the commitment of our Secretary-General to this particular security threat, but he needs the support of all nations to take the necessary action to address it. We must step up our collective efforts to mitigate global greenhouse-gas emissions. We continue to urge major greenhouse-gas emitters to do their part. We also urge development partners to provide the appropriate level of resources and technology to enable us to deal with the current and future impacts of climate change and sea-level rise. While we are taking adaptative measures to ensure that Kiribati remains habitable for as long as possible, we are also preparing for a future when our islands may no longer be able to sustain our population. We are looking to improve the skills of our people to a level where they will be able to compete for jobs in the international labour market. We want our people to have the option to migrate with dignity, should that be a necessary choice in the future, and all the science is telling us that that is a real possibility. We note some positive progress made at the recent climate change talks in Bangkok, building on the decisions made in Durban last year. However, action has been too slow in coming. We inch along, when it is great strides that are needed. On those issues where we have consensus, we believe the international community must move to implement agreed action without delay, while we continue our discussions on those matters that remain contentious. If we wait for agreement on everything, then it is going to be a very long wait and a long process. It should not come as a surprise that we are off- track on many of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). While other countries are focusing their resources on their efforts to meet the MDGs, we, the most vulnerable countries, continue to spend a disproportionate level of our limited resources fighting the onslaught of the rising seas and storm surges on our homes, livelihoods and public infrastructure. That is a costly exercise that we cannot afford. We continue to rely on the goodwill of our partners and members of our global community in that regard. We are a nation of water. We are a very-large-ocean State. We believe that, given the right support, we can achieve sustainable development through the utilization of the available resources of our vast exclusive economic zone. We believe that, in so doing, we can reduce our reliance on development assistance. I also believe that we may even be able to do away with development assistance altogether, if we are provided with the support we need now to develop our capacity to harvest and process our own resources. Fisheries remain a major economic resource for my country, providing between 40 and 50 per cent of our revenue. Our aspiration is to maximize returns from that resource, given the current rate of return of between 5 and 8 per cent after landed value alone. We have started establishing our fish-processing plant through a public/private partnership. Seabed mining is another potential source of revenue. However, we are mindful of the need to take a precautionary approach towards that particular industry, given the potential damage it could cause to our pristine marine environment. We acknowledge the fundamental role of our environment as a pillar of sustainable development. Maintaining the health and biodiversity of our oceans and ecosystems will be critical. Our contribution to those efforts is the Phoenix Islands Protected Area, which was once the world’s largest marine protected area. We have set aside that area as a haven for marine biodiversity, and that is our gift to humanity in recognition of the value of protecting our common heritage. Ocean conservation is beyond the resources of any single country. Collaboration on cross-border initiatives is therefore essential to advancing our efforts in that regard. At the recent Pacific Islands Forum meeting in the Cook Islands, the United States and Kiribati announced plans to collaborate in building links between our adjoining marine parks in the Phoenix Islands, under the umbrella of the Phoenix Ocean Arc. That effort is our joint contribution to the Pacific Oceanscape Framework. We want to take this opportunity to invite the international community to partner with us in that endeavour. Our message to the international community is that conservation of biodiversity and marine ecosystems in the Pacific is not only important to the sustainable development of Pacific island people. It is also of vital importance to the rest of the global community. The international community needs to support those efforts, not as a hand-out but as an investment for this planet’s future generations. In June, we met in Rio de Janeiro to review our progress 20 years on from the 1992 Earth Summit. Twenty years ago, we agreed that the protection of our global environment was critical for our future survival and that the pursuit of development must be based on the long-term sustainability of our natural resources. Unfortunately, our track record in delivering on our undertakings has not been good. In fact, in many respects, our environment is worse off today than it was 20 years ago. The fine balance keeping our planetary ecosystem together has been adversely affected by our pursuit of individual benefits at the expense of the collective good. While some members of our global family continue to benefit from the unsustainable exploitation of resources, others are having to pay the ultimate price. We do not believe that there is justice in that. We renewed our commitment in June to achieving the future we want. That future will require our Organization to evolve to reflect the realities of our time, a time in which new and emerging security threats and injustices, such as climate change, are challenging the credibility of our international system of governance; a time in which the future survival of some nations is seriously in question; and a time when all those countries with the ability to do so must contribute to the prevention of such a calamity or be forever judged by history. If we are to provide a secure, peaceful and prosperous future for our children, then we must go beyond business as usual and deliver now. In fact, we should have delivered yesterday. We accept the reality that, during these uncertain times, there is a need for the United Nations to remain as relevant and responsive as possible to the ever- changing needs and challenges of this world. In our discussions earlier this morning, I was most encouraged to be assured by the Secretary-General’s commitment to ensuring that our Organization will undergo reforms in order to become more efficient, more transparent and more accountable. We also welcome the Secretary- General’s proposal to strengthen partnerships with civil society and the private sector. In fact, I believe that such a partnership must begin at the community and national levels before extending to the regional and international levels. The fundamental fabric that binds us together as a family and as humanity is unravelling at the seams. Maintaining security and ensuring the survival of people in conflict areas, particularly in the Middle East and North Africa, remain a major challenge to our Organization. Let us pray for the sake of those on the front line of the major global challenges that a greater understanding and stability will prevail. It is gratifying to note the continued easing of tension and the improvement of relations across the Taiwan Straits. We also welcome the inclusion of countries such as Taiwan in the international activities of the World Health Assembly. We hope that a similar understanding will prevail in respect of other international institutions and processes so that Taiwan can participate and contribute meaningfully for the good of humanity. As we chart the path towards the future that we want, we must address the fundamental threats to the very existence of the members of this family of nations. As a family, we must guarantee the survival of the members of our community. Climate change must be resolved before it is too late for those countries on the front line and, indeed, the whole of humanity. We need compassionate, visionary and responsible leadership at this time in order to direct our path towards a more secure and just future. We owe it to our children and their children’s children to act and act soon. So let us pray that God will give us the common sense to do the right thing for the future of humanity.﻿I come here to the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly to bring, on behalf of the Haitian people, my contribution to the debate that today brings together representatives of all peoples of the world. The election of Mr. Jeremić to the Assembly presidency is for me a clear message that the small States Members of the United Nations can play a major role and make their contribution to peace, even in the global context of a sluggish economy. On behalf of the Haitian delegation, I would like to congratulate him for having raised and encouraged the theme for today’s debate, which, unfortunately, is a concern of many Members of the great family of the United Nations. Also permit me to pay a well-deserved tribute to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for the dynamism, wisdom, good judgement, vision and courage he has shown more than once in managing extremely sensitive international situations. I also would like to especially thank him for the particular attention he has bestowed on my country, Haiti. Since my accession to power, the Haiti I love has attempted, in intent and in deeds — with many ups and downs, no doubt with successes and some mistakes — to emerge from its difficulties. I have been strongly dedicated to that effort. I can imagine that, with the impetus provided, results will be forthcoming in a matter of months or years. How could it be otherwise? Haiti today, the Haiti that I have the mission of serving, has understood that as long as there are quarrels, frustrations, poverty, underdevelopment and inequality, the world in general and Haiti in particular will never be protected from problems and controversies. As long as things are bad within nations, they will be tempted to turn to their neighbours and seek quarrels. Throughout long centuries of world history examples have not been lacking. That is why we say today that, while it is good to seek peaceful solutions to international disputes, it would perhaps be wiser to try to prevent them. As long as access to water and to major markets, or just compensation for raw materials and sound economic competitiveness are not available to us, we will continue to have conflicts. As long as we at the United Nations do not pool our efforts so that access to health and to jobs and respect for differences become a reality, we will continue to face conflicts, and we will be reduced to painfully seeking peaceful solutions. We champion gender equality and we promote democracy. We daily attempt to apply equal treatment for all under the law. Respect for the environment is inscribed in our programme of Government. In my view, those are the parameters that prevent uncontrolled migrations, climate change, useless wars, religion-related massacres, ethnic conflicts and terrorism. In our common quest for harmony in a world with different cultures and diverse religions, we must allow our national dreams to emerge. Those dreams can be summed up as offering the possibility to every man and every woman, regardless of color, religion or political preference, to live in peace and to rear their children in dignity. The Haiti of Toussaint Louverture, over two centuries ago, already understood that. Those national dreams, however, will not see the light of day if the commitments made to help the development of countries like ours are not implemented, if prejudice and suspicions of all kinds regarding the have-nots still prevail. In order to prevent those differences, we must regard others in a different way, with eyes purified, I would say, at the Pool of Siloam. Haiti continues to suffer from being regarded in the old way. On the eve of Haiti’s presidency of the Caribbean Community, I repeat that with good faith and goodwill, things can change, because our destinies, whatever side we may be on, are intimately intertwined. In a world where the global trend is towards the forming of economic and social blocs, the great can remain great only if they know how to transform the multiplicity of children of the planet into a single great social and economic family, respectful of the cultural and religious traditions of all, without exclusion. Therefore the necessary dialogue must prevail among us, not the dialogue of the deaf in which we have been powerlessly enmeshed for decades. We must have real exchanges and negotiations that alone can put an end to the interminable conflicts, which have brought families grief and disrupted the peace of the world. History has taught us that there is no justice or equality in international relations. History has also taught us that every nation looks after its own interests. The establishment of the United Nations kindled hope among peoples that things could be different. We cannot let that flame die. Within any family in general and within the family of the United Nations in particular, there cannot be great and small, giants and dwarfs, but equal beings with interests to defend and opinions to express on the basis of forward-looking relationships, relationships marked by liberty, equality, fraternity and the pursuit of happiness for all. But let us not be misled: the best foundation for peace in the world, for prosperity and for defeating poverty will always be democracy. Under my leadership, Haiti has understood that and is making active use of democracy to strengthen previously weak or ineffectual local institutions. Haiti has understood that only veritable democracy can bring stability: it is the indispensable precondition for any development policy. I wish to sincerely reiterate from this rostrum the urgent need we all must face to stop fighting and to work instead to protect the assets we share on this planet — to work together to reduce and manage the risks and disasters besetting the world, ruining our economies and hindering development. To my colleagues, the leaders of the world, I wish to recall that our respective peoples have chosen us and entrusted to us the mandate of building a better world where no one will be left alone, where our children will finally be able to grow up in peace. The words of Victor Hugo come to mind, pronounced at the Peace Congress in 1847: “The day will come when there will be no battlefields other than markets open to trade and minds open to ideas.” Those are my wishes for the assembly of nations. May the good Lord give us His blessings and enlighten us. May He bless the city of New York, which is receiving us so warmly, and grant us the wisdom and capacity to work towards a more beautiful and more just world.﻿It is an immense pleasure for me to join other Heads of State and Government at this sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I should like to begin by congratulating the President upon his election to steer the work of the Assembly at this session. His experience and abilities are well known and respected. We have full confidence that he will take the Organization to greater heights. The Kingdom of eSwatini is ready to give him all the support that he deserves in carrying out this mammoth task. I also wish to thank the Secretary-General for his detailed report on the work of the Organization (A/67/1). We have seen the staff of the United Nations working very hard, sometimes in very difficult and hostile environments, dedicating their service to helping those who require our assistance and support. The Kingdom of eSwatini commends the Secretary-General and his dedicated team for working tirelessly to ensure the realization of all aspirations of the Organization. As we gather here, we must always remember that the role of the United Nations is to keep peace throughout the world, to develop and to help nations to work together in resolving challenges such as hunger, unemployment, conflicts, disease and illiteracy, among others. The United Nations also aims to be the centre for harmonizing the actions of nations to achieve our aspirations. We are meeting here at a time when the whole world is facing numerous challenges, such as the economic and financial crisis. The Kingdom of eSwatini believes that the United Nations is the appropriate forum to deliberate on these challenges in order to come up with united global solutions. As part of the global community, the Kingdom of eSwatini has not been spared from this economic predicament. Our social development programmes that enhance the delivery of the Millennium Development Goals and national projects, such as job creation and poverty alleviation strategies, have been adversely affected by the prevailing situation. The gains we have made in the fight against HIV and AIDS through the rollout of antiretroviral treatments remain threatened by the uncertainty around the financial sustainability of the programme. We wish to acknowledge the support we continue to receive from the Global Fund to fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria in mitigating all diseases. The Fund has gone a long way in injecting resources into our national programme of promoting health as a key national priority. The need to work together to overcome these challenges could not have been more essential. In our efforts to address global economic challenges, we should be conscious of the social implications of some of the proposed solutions. Our strategies should not create more hardship, but rather find answers that mitigate the difficulties we face. I am confident that, with our wealth of different experiences, we stand to benefit from valuable strategies, especially from those States that have not been seriously affected by the financial crisis. We urge those countries to share their experiences for the benefit of all Member States. The Kingdom of eSwatini calls on the United Nations to consider making these challenges among its top priorities during this session. The Kingdom of eSwatini last month converged on Sibaya for dialogue on social, economic and political issues with a view to crafting solutions and agreeing on a way forward that would best improve our livelihoods. Sibaya is a place where every citizen is free to participate irrespective of gender, creed, religion or affiliation, among other things. We believe in the full participation of all citizens at the grass-roots level in the decision-making process. This forum is an institution where key national pronouncements are made and national sustainable development strategies conceived. Our national Constitution and National Development Strategy are outputs of this structure. This practice has been passed on from generation to generation, and has continued to serve us well, since it allows the people to contribute to their own welfare. Like many other States Member of the Organization, the Kingdom of eSwatini has been working hard towards the ratification of United Nations conventions, as well as of continental and regional protocols. I am pleased to inform the Assembly that the Sibaya forum provided the whole nation with an opportunity to discuss those conventions and protocols, which have since been ratified by Parliament and deposited with the Secretary-General. We are pleased that we can now be counted among the countries that have successfully ratified United Nations conventions and protocols. The world we live in has become a complicated place with the advent of modern technology. We remain faced with the challenge of how best to take advantage of this technology, such as social media, to promote peace and stability. If there is anything we need to do, it is to promote peace in the world. It is true, and we fully agree with the assertion that there is no need to promote violence of any kind, be it the killing of diplomats, the forced removal of Governments, or any other form. In this world, we must all live together in peace, whether as Muslims, Christians or any other traditional believers. We must learn to respect each other irrespective of race, creed or religious affiliation. If we practiced those principles, the world would be altogether a different and better place. As human beings, we must turn the page, forget the past and live together for the benefit of generations to come. On the African continent, we are encouraged by the concerted efforts of our fellow brothers and sisters who are committed to resolving their differences in a peaceful manner. We encourage speedy resolutions in areas where pockets of conflict remain, such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Sudan and some North African countries, to mention but a few. The Assembly knows that Somalia has also been without a stable Government for a long time, and we hope that new developments will bring about lasting peace. In that vein, the Kingdom of eSwatini welcomes the recent development that has taken place in Somalia. We hope that the election of the President will bring the desired stability. We extend the call for peace beyond Africa, to the Middle East, where we continue to witness conflict. The war in Syria has claimed the lives of too many citizens and must come to an end. We appeal to the people of Syria to discourage the use of force in resolving their differences. We encourage the use of dialogue in cases where they do not see eye to eye. We implore the Syrian Government and the other stakeholders to sit down in dialogue in order to find a lasting solution to the current impasse. The barrel of the gun will bring nothing but misery. The United Nations and the League of Arab States have sent a Joint Special Representative to work with the people of Syria. We hope that all stakeholders will make good use of the Joint Special Representative towards finding a peaceful and lasting solution to their differences. The Kingdom of eSwatini urges States Members of the United Nations to work together in supporting all efforts aimed at helping the people of Syria to resolve the conflict. We also note that the Israel-Palestine conflict remains unresolved. A peaceful settlement of the issue is deeply desired and urgently necessary. Our position is unambiguous. The most viable solution is to have the two States of Israel and Palestine coexisting side by side in peace and harmony. We must commend the recent positive developments with regard to relations between the Republic of China on Taiwan and mainland China, which are steadily improving. Indeed, it is very encouraging as it demonstrates that the tensions between the two countries have subsided. We hope that one day they will be able to resolve all of their differences and live happily with each other. We are witnessing increasing trade, as well as f lights, between the two countries. Recently, it was also interesting to see mainland China host an African summit, to which the countries that are friends of Taiwan were also invited. As an African country, we would like to thank mainland China for its continued support to African countries. We have no doubt that the potential of the two peoples working together side by side will make a significant difference in the world. We hope that the new developments will pave the way for Taiwan to participate fully in all United Nations entities, because the people of Taiwan desire to become part of the global community. Peace will continue to elude us until we properly address the issue of weapons of mass destruction. It is clear that those weapons are not necessary to humankind. Their mere presence is a recipe for conflict as each country seeks to gain power over others. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, adopted by many Member States, must be enforced to ensure the complete elimination of these weapons. We have not seen any tangible proof of compliance with the internationally agreed time frames, which is a cause for serious concern requiring urgent attention. The mere existence of those weapons creates unnecessary tension that could result in a very hostile world environment. We implore those countries endowed with uranium resources to use them for other essential economic development needs, such as power generation. The Kingdom of eSwatini recognizes the important role that the Security Council plays in the pursuit of international peace and security. The Charter of the United Nations clearly stipulates an international order that ensures the rule of law. We call upon the General Assembly at this session to deliberate on Security Council reform, as not all regions are well represented. We wish to reiterate the African position on the Security Council, claiming two seats in the permanent category and five seats in the non-permanent category. The full representation of all regions in the Council will ensure that we all own the decisions of that important security organ. We should all be given equal treatment. No region or country should impose its influence over others. We wish to see finality in that urgent matter, since it has dragged on for a very long time now. The high-level meeting on sustainable energy for all, which was held alongside this session, gave Heads of State and Government a forum to deliberate on issues that promote the protection of our environment. That meeting provided us with an opportunity to revisit the commitments made towards sustainable energy for all. The destruction of the environment has had devastating effects on many of our countries. The United Nations must expedite the processes towards protecting the environment by enforcing the use of environmentally friendly technologies and practices by Member States. We call upon the developed countries to honour their commitments made prior to the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio de Janeiro. Finally, allow me to say that as we meet during this session, let us adopt resolutions that will provide lasting solutions to the challenges faced by humankind the world over. We wish the United Nations every success as it pursues its objective of creating a peaceful environment and coexistence among all the nations of the world. Let honesty, peace, stability and tolerance prevail across the globe.﻿It is a great honour to deliver these remarks on behalf of Montenegro. At the outset, allow me to address two friends and colleagues. I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside over the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. You will enjoy, as always, the full cooperation and support of Montenegro in this important task. I would also like to pay tribute to Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for his contribution to the work of the General Assembly, especially in promoting mediation as a means of settling disputes by peaceful means. I extend special appreciation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his efforts to promote multilateralism and joint action in ensuring a peaceful, secure and prosperous world. I would especially like to reiterate our satisfaction with his recent successful visit to Montenegro, which confirmed the strong partnership between the United Nations and my country. Montenegro has always been strongly committed to multilateral cooperation and respect for the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. We have demonstrated this in our region by promoting good-neighbourly relations and regional cooperation, as well as worldwide through support for and participation in global efforts to build and maintain peace. The High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law that preceded the general debate once again stressed the importance of democratic governance and respect for human rights. These are preconditions for the prosperity of all our citizens and of society as a whole. Failure in this regard is our common concern. We therefore stress the individual responsibility of all countries to strengthen the rule of law and promote human rights, as well as the role of the United Nations in providing adequate and efficient support to these efforts. Respect for the rule of law at the international level, national ownership of rule of law activities, and the incorporation and effective implementation of international norms within our domestic legal systems are our key objectives. Strengthening international partnership in maintaining and building peace and security is crucial. As a Mediterranean country, we share the concerns of the international community for the recent developments in the southern Mediterranean and the Middle East. The scale and consequences of the violence in Syria serve as a stern reminder of the importance of preventive measures in preserving international peace and security; hence the need to enhance United Nations preventive capacities and the role of dialogue and mediation in peaceful conflict resolution. Montenegro strongly advocates an approach that emphasizes the early prevention and elimination of threats before they evolve into sources of conflict. The responsibility to protect and its operationalization remain a key task. In the era of accountability, perpetrators of crimes against humanity should not go unpunished. Countries need to demonstrate strong commitment to the rule of law, respect for human rights and freedoms, democracy and non-use of force in settling disputes. Montenegro stands ready to increase its participation in peacekeeping operations, in accordance with its capacities and in line with international efforts. We support in particular United Nations initiatives aimed at improving civilian protection and the development of civilian capacities for maintaining stability by advancing the mandates of peacekeeping missions. In that context, we fully support the implementation of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) and strengthening the role of women in conflict and post- conflict situations. My country is firmly dedicated to the comprehensive implementation of the United Nations Global Counter- Terrorism Strategy, as well as the United Nations sanctions regime. With regard to the Global Strategy review, we fully endorse the proposal of the Secretary- General to appoint a United Nations counter-terrorism coordinator in order to improve strategic coordination, coherence and substantive implementation of the Strategy. We strongly support global efforts for disarmament and non-proliferation, while stressing that the fight against transnational threats, such as human trafficking, cybercrime and the illicit drug trade, require a comprehensive approach. As a multicultural country, Montenegro builds its society on principles of understanding, tolerance and mutual respect. Diversity does not divide but enriches our society, thanks to tradition and trust built throughout the long Montenegrin history. As we have recently witnessed, differences can be abused and easily turn into senseless acts of violence against the innocent, which is unacceptable. My country therefore remains committed to promoting intercultural dialogue, tolerance and respect at all levels. In the six years following the restoration of its independence, Montenegro has achieved significant progress, both in internal development and in international relations. We have very good relations with all our neighbours, while the region as a whole stands before a unique challenge to demonstrate that it is capable of reinforcing overall cooperation. Montenegro actively participates in all regional processes and initiatives aimed at intensifying mutual and constructive cooperation and strengthening security and stability in South-East Europe. After its turbulent past, the region is brought together by the common strategic goal of European integration. Although there remain issues that need international assistance and support, we have achieved a new level of trust, development and maturity that have resulted in the individual progress of each country in European and Euro-Atlantic integration. The opening of European Union accession negotiations in June this year and our continuous progress on our Euro-Atlantic path represent strong recognition of the results we have achieved. We are fully focused on and committed to continuing the implementation of reforms and reaching the highest international standards, in particular in the areas of the rule of law, human rights and freedoms, and democratic governance. Strengthening institutional and human capacities will reinforce our political stability and economic prosperity, as is essential in this time of ever-evolving crises that affect us all. Progress in the integration processes does not mean the absence of problems. We attach great importance to resolving issues essential for the development of our society, such as the empowerment of women, improving the situation of the Roma population, and settling the status of refugees, internally displaced persons and other vulnerable groups. We are fully committed to tackling these complex challenges through efficient and lasting solutions and models for the better social integration of every individual. We are particularly aware of this at times when social and economic disparities become more visible and demand stronger efforts by the State for their elimination. The promotion of and respect for human rights are important goals in our internal and foreign policy agenda. We are therefore confident that Montenegro will gain the trust of States Members of the United Nations this coming November and be elected to the Human Rights Council for the period 2013-2015. We are strongly committed to contributing to the efficiency and effectiveness of the Council and the system of protection and improvement of human rights and freedoms. Support for the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, full cooperation with the Council and its special procedures, and active promotion of human rights and freedoms at the international level in order to respond in a timely manner to situations of human rights violations in the world — these will be major guidelines for our activities in the Council. The results of the implementation of the United Nations Delivering as One reform programme speak in favour not only of reform of the Organization, but also of even greater effectiveness in adapting the United Nations to the development needs of a country. Montenegro has achieved tangible progress in implementing an integrated programme and, to a certain extent, is already implementing the joint programming model as a next phase of Delivering as One. Strengthening national ownership and joint programming, as well as making use of the relative advantages of the various United Nations agencies, are fundamental principles on which our cooperation programme is based up to 2016. We will continue to support all efforts aimed at improving the United Nations system and its effectiveness and operational activities in the field. Sustainable development, poverty reduction and economic growth, conflict and post-conflict situations are just some of the issues that require joint action. In that context, sustainable development with all its pillars stands out as our priority. Montenegro is among the countries that are on track to meet the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). In that regard, we stress the importance of the MDGs as a basis for defining sustainable development goals, which must be a central part of the global post-2015 development agenda and thus help us to form a clear expression of political commitment to sustainable development. We stand ready to actively contribute to shaping and determining the necessary indicators, as well as timelines for their implementation. We believe that the question of sustainable development, as well as the issue of reaching legally binding agreements on climate change within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, must involve compromise on the part of United Nations Members. We therefore hope to see positive developments at the Doha Conference. A shared determination, openness and willingness to reach compromise and accept reality are all truly necessary in order for us to move forward. Our commitment to meeting the MDGs should not be neglected, however difficult the economic and financial situation worldwide. Eradicating poverty, and creating partnerships with civil society and the private sector so as to enable us to achieve sustainable energy for all by 2030, as well as the Zero Hunger Challenge launched by the Secretary-General, are our common objectives. Together we can achieve those goals. At a time when interdependence and integration are major trends in global politics, no country on its own can handle the increasingly demanding challenges posed by modern society. Cooperation is a prerequisite for success. I am confident that small countries like Montenegro can play an important role and be part of the solution. We remain dedicated to the principles of cooperation and mutual trust, and strongly committed to contributing to strengthening the United Nations system and its role in global governance, at both the national and the international levels. Before I conclude, allow me to add a small, personal note. The first time I attended the General Assembly, I was an attaché from the then Socialist Federative Republic of Yugoslavia. Today, many years and three different States later, I have the privilege of standing before the Assembly as head of the delegation of my country, Montenegro. The world may have changed in ways we never anticipated, but our Organization and what it stands for have weathered the challenges and remain globally important and equally valuable for every one of us.﻿I bring cordial greetings to the authorities of the United Nations and to all the Heads of State and representatives here with us. This session of the General Assembly, which will address the theme of the settlement of disputes by peaceful means, offers us an opportunity to reflect on the course of the history of our countries and humankind, and to showcase the issues that the world’s peoples need to solve. The peaceful settlement of conflicts is an essential part of how we strengthen our democratic institutions and the rule of law in a world that has not yet consolidated peace. For various reasons that we need not go into, we are witnessing violations of the principle of non-interference — through various mechanisms that are not necessarily military — of our countries’ constitutions and our own international treaties, as well as various manifestations of intolerance, xenophobia and other attitudes that provoke violence and foment conflict. Hard as it is to believe, we still see political parties, leaders, intellectuals and representatives of the media who continue to see global realities through Cold War eyes, as if the last half-century had not produced enormous changes in the international political map. Such outdated positions hinder the progress of our peoples and nations in strengthening and broadening their democratic borders. My country, El Salvador, is a clear example of such contradictions, finding itself as it does stuck between a process that is strengthening the rule of law and the persistence of conservative forces that still entertain the fantasy of communism. I bring these thoughts to this forum because I believe that El Salvador’s young democracy is a good example of how to settle disputes through dialogue. It is also a good example of structures that are mired in backwardness, privilege and the Manichaean view that belongs to the Cold War. As is well known, El Salvador endured a long armed conflict that lasted 12 years and cost more than 80,000 lives. Our emergence from that conflict has been a model of the effectiveness of dialogue and negotiation for my country and the entire world. We took a giant step forward as a nation 20 years ago when, on 16 January 1992, we signed the Chapultepec, Mexico, peace accords that brought the armed conflict to a definitive end. The United Nations itself acted as mediator; the then Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Pérez de Cuellar, in consultation with the Security Council, appointed the Peruvian diplomat Álvaro de Soto as mediator. I would like, if I may, to pay tribute to Mr. De Soto’s work, as it is an example of how even exceedingly difficult disputes can be settled through dialogue. In that regard, he proved to be a true architect of peace. We can say that, beginning in 1992, Salvadorans launched a new process that has gradually consolidated our democracy and created modern institutions. Three years ago El Salvador passed another milestone signaling a step forward in the strengthening of our democracy. After 20 years of Governments led by the same political forces, we witnessed a political change that brought in the current Government to administer the State. This was not simply a change of political party; it opened the way to a movement of renewal that has been expressed in various issues of enormous importance for the rule of law and for reinforcing the work of our democratic institutions. The long-term control of our country’s Government by a single political party for two decades gave absolute power to a small group over the organs of State — executive, legislative and judicial — and over other institutions such as the Court of Accounts, the Office of the Prosecutor General and the Public Ministry, among others. As change and the break with absolute control took place, they began to permit genuine independence in the branches of Government, which in turn began to lead to the genuine f lowering of democracy that the people had demanded. Those changes, far from changing the rules of the game, effectively guaranteed judicial certainty and eliminated the privileges that had protected Governments in the past. On behalf of the State, the Government asked for forgiveness for the crimes committed by State agents during the armed conflict, and has undertaken and continues to undertake concrete efforts to make moral and material reparations to the victims of barbaric atrocities and their families. This was a debt to the Salvadoran people and the international community that had not been settled by previous Governments. Not long ago, our country experienced an institutional crisis whose nature and scope were very different from those of the armed conflict, but nonetheless put Salvadoran democracy to the test. I am referring to the recent crisis that arose between the constitutional chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice and the Legislative Assembly in my country. At no time did the crisis cause political instability; rather, it brought two State bodies in conflict and, in that respect, it was an example of the independence of those two branches of Government in our country today. The conflict, arising from different and conflicting interpretations of the Republic’s Constitution, lasted almost five months. It was a protracted crisis that generated opposing positions within our country, and the lack of agreement between the parties drove the Legislative Assembly to call for a settlement through the Central American Court of Justice. The conflict and that decision of the parliamentary majority set off strong reactions from groups on either side. Unfortunately, it was also exploited by foreign groups, including by campaigning United States senators who blew the conflict out of proportion without understanding it fully. Therefore, with no agreement to resolve the crisis, the President of the Republic offered to mediate and facilitate the dialogue. After 17 long days of meetings with representatives of the different political camps in the Legislative Assembly, the longed-for agreement was finally reached. In the end, that agreement led to the appointment of a new President of the Supreme Court of Justice and the normalization of the administration of justice in our country. I wished to share with the Assembly this brief sketch of events in order to underscore that once again El Salvador was able to find a felicitous solution to an institutional crisis through dialogue and as the fruit of negotiation. In short, it was a new triumph of the young and ever-stronger Salvadoran democracy. Of course, many challenges lie ahead, such as that of promoting a process of constitutional reform that will lead to an unequivocal interpretation of our Magna Carta so that we do not once again suffer conflicts such as the one we saw recently. We also must move to update State institutions in the light of what we have learned over the past two decades. El Salvador resolved on its own an institutional conflict that in other eras would have led to coups d’état and breaches of constitutional order with serious human, economic, political and social consequences for countries that suffered such situations. We found the solution through dialogue, which is a fine example of the theme for this session of the General Assembly. At the same time, we are aware that the strengthening of democratic processes — which, happily, is the one-way road on which Latin America is now travelling — should bring profound changes in the economic and social structures of our countries, which must clearly be based on the rule of law. The fact that there are people who are marginalized and excluded from the progress and goods that only a small portion of humankind is able to enjoy remains an open wound that we cannot and should not continue to tolerate. We live from crisis to crisis, ever more frequent and ever deeper, which lead to a system and models based essentially on the accumulation of wealth in the hands of a tiny minority, leaving large majorities in poverty and backwardness. The phenomenon of migration, which we once addressed in this forum, is the child of that planet-wide inequality and an striking ref lection of the need to change and change quickly. Latin America has taken important steps in that direction. We are leaving behind a perverse model that had impoverished our people and turned our region into the most unfair of the planet — not the poorest, but the most unfair. Today, we are aware that no model is successful if it leaves out vast majorities. With all the people involved we can achieve much, but without the people we can achieve nothing. That is the road that we have begun to travel in our region. Without a doubt, it will be a difficult and long road, full of progress and setbacks, but in the end, and I stress this, it is the only road that will allow for certain success. The unfair distribution of wealth and goods, the constant aggression against the environment, and the lack of global control over financial f lows that leads to recurring crises — which are always paid for by the people and never by those who are responsible — are realities that do not arise from any ideology. The problem is not one of ideology. These are realities that we must change in order to establish a climate of peace and security in which we see the domestic changes that give our peoples better living conditions and access to the material and cultural goods that produce progress in our global society. I do not wish to conclude without first alluding to a topic that we have also addressed in this forum and that is a source of ongoing concern for the international community. I am referring to civic security and the fight against organized crime and all forms of violence. El Salvador is today the focus of the region, multilateral organizations and the countries that historically have close ties to my country. That is due to a phenomenon that we have been experiencing for more than half a year and that has brought a significant drop in violence and crime. El Salvador was the second most violent country on the American continent until a few months ago. We had 15 murders per day on average, as a result of violence, crime and infighting among criminal organizations, in particular among gangs. By September, the average had fallen to 3.8 murders per day. We have seen drops in other crime rates that, while less significant, are still steady and substantial. For the past three years, El Salvador has been undertaking a policy of civic security that has been bearing fruit. Recently, a truce signed between rival gangs, with the Catholic church as intermediary and facilitated by the Government, contributed decidedly to that crime reduction process. However, let me also say that if violence and organized crime are to disappear in our countries, we must modify the conditions for millions of young people who live without hope and without opportunity. These are tasks that are incumbent upon the Governments and societies of each of our countries. However, there is more. As we have said on other occasions, without the strong and decided support of the drug-consuming countries, and without an unequivocal commitment from those large markets, we cannot wage this good fight successfully. Central America, together with Mexico and Colombia, have agreed upon joint policies to wage that battle. We need the support of the Government and people of the United States in that battle. It is essential. El Salvador has launched a massive campaign to raise awareness and mobilize our people against gender violence in the understanding that violence against women is violence against all of society. If gender-based violence is a problem throughout all of our societies, it is one that we should address and that is even more pressing in societies where there is a strong tradition of tolerance of violence and chauvinism against women. Governments bear the biggest responsibility, but societies should also show solidarity and commit to those efforts. We are certain that the differences that divide us within our countries can be overcome only through dialogue. That is the manner in which we must resolve conflicts. Dialogue, consensus and agreement are the guidelines for the road maps that will lead to societies that are more fair and prosperous. I should therefore like to conclude my remarks by sending along a warm greeting to the people and Government of Colombia for their efforts to attain a definitive peace in their country. For several decades, our sister Republic of Colombia has suffered an armed conflict that has limited its possiblities and clearly hindered its economic growth and the well-being of its people. For that reason, the dialogue and negotiation that have been launched by President Juan Manuel Santos Calderón deserve the full support of the international community, and in particular of the Latin American countries. We congratulate the Colombian people and wish them the greatest success on the road that they have taken towards peace and national concord. Along the same lines, we hail the process of economic reforms undertaken by the sister Republic of Cuba, which is bringing about a transformation that is worthy of our support and encouragement. We therefore reiterate the call we made last year in this Hall. The blockade against Cuba must be lifted. It is an anachronism from a past that has been overcome in our America. Peace, unity and change are essential values when it comes to working for the happiness of our peoples.﻿On behalf of my delegation and myself, may I extend to Mr. Jeremić our warmest congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. His extensive experience in both regional and international affairs will undoubtedly enrich the debate and the proceedings during this session. I wish to assure him of the full cooperation of Zimbabwe as he discharges the onerous duties of that high office. If I may be allowed, I would like to preface my speech with a reference to the most glowing and moving speech that we heard from the President of the United States yesterday (see A/67/PV.6), the significance of which was to get us to condemn the tragic death of the United States Ambassador to Libya. I am sure that we were all moved and that we all agree that it was, indeed, an appalling event that we all condemn. A year ago, we saw the barbaric and brutal death of the Head of State of Libya, which is a member of the African Union. His death occurred in a context in which NATO was operating supposedly in order to protect civilians. As we join the United States in spirit in condemning the Ambassador’s death, will the United States also join us in condemning the barbaric death of the Head of State of Libya, Al-Qadhafi? That great and tragic loss to Africa occurred in circumstances in which NATO had sought the authority of the Security Council under Chapter VII to operate in Libya in the protection of civilians, who were said to be at the mercy of the Government of Libya, led by Colonel Al-Qadhafi. The mission was strictly to protect civilians, but it became a brutal hunt for Al-Qadhafi and his family. NATO caught up with them. Al-Qadhafi and some of his children suffered the brutal deaths about which we know. As the United States President spoke, I am sure that that he was aware that his country, as a NATO Power, had, alongside the other NATO Powers, the authority under Chapter VII to operate in Libya in order to protect civilians. But is that what the operation turned out to be? In a very dishonest manner, we saw the authority entrusted under Chapter VII being used as a weapon in order to rout a whole family and to commit the murders that occurred in that country. Bombs were hurled in a callous manner. Quite a number of civilians died. Was that the protection they had sought under Chapter VII of the Charter? So the death of Al-Qadhafi must be seen in the same tragic vein as the death of Chris Stevens. We condemn both. Let me begin by reaffirming the rightful and important role of the United Nations in the management of issues affecting international peace and security. In the quest for a more just and equitable international order, Zimbabwe remains strongly opposed to unilateralism and committed to multilateralism. We would therefore like to see a United Nations that continues to be a guarantor of world peace and security and a bulwark in the fight for justice and equality among nations. It behoves us all, therefore, to take the necessary steps to ensure that the United Nations is not marginalized on international issues. Equally important, the United Nations must, in future, never allow itself to be abused, as it was in the case I referred to earlier, when NATO sought under Chapter VII authority to protect civilians, but it did not turn out to be that. In the future, the Security Council must never allow itself to be abused by any Member State or group of States that seeks to achieve parochial, partisan goals. The Charter of the United Nations clearly stipulates that it is an international body that should work for the good of all the peoples of the world, big and small. We recognize that there are existing and emerging threats and challenges that continue to frustrate our individual and collective efforts to attain greater economic development and social progress, as well as peace and security. But the increasing trend among the NATO member States, inspired by the arrogant belief that they are the most powerful among us — demonstrated in their recent resort to unilateralism and military hegemony in Libya — is the very antithesis of the basic principles of the United Nations. In the case of Libya, the African Union and its peacemaking role was defied, ignored and humiliated. The African Union sought dialogue between the Libyan authorities and the so-called revolutionaries. May we urge the international community to collectively nip this dangerous and unwelcome aggressive development in the bud before it festers. In that regard, the theme that the President has chosen for this session — “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means” — is very appropriate. This is what we in the African Union stress — the settlement of disputes in a peaceful way, through dialogue. The warmongers of our world have done us enough harm. Wherever they have imposed themselves, chaos in place of peace has been the result. One example was the situation created by the Bush-Blair illegal campaign in Iraq — an illegal campaign undertaken because it was alleged that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction, when it was well known to those two and their Governments that he did not have such weapons — and, indeed, after invading Iraq, creating much havoc and getting rid of Saddam Hussein, they admitted that he had no weapons of mass destruction. So why had they attacked Iraq in the first place? Why did they seek to get rid of Saddam Hussein? Was it merely because he was a dictator, as they alleged? No, he was the head of a country that sat on tons and tons of oil. It was oil they required, and we saw companies — indeed, one such company was headed by a brother of Bush — rushing to suck oil from Iraq. That is also what happened with Libya. The situation they created in Iraq has now brought about greater instability than there ever was. We have Sunnis rising against Shias, and vice versa, let alone the disastrous economic consequences of that unlawful invasion. The economy is unstable, society unstable, and people are fighting one another. Libya has been made equally unstable after NATO’s deceitful intervention under the sham cover of Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations and the phony principle of the responsibility to protect. I listened to the speech made by the Secretary- General. He made reference to that principle. It is one that can be abused, and it has been abused. And, anyway, it is still being debated. Zimbabwe fi rmly believes in the peaceful settlement of disputes between and among States in a manner that is consistent with the principles and purposes of the United Nations. In the maintenance of international peace and security, much more must be done to prevent conflicts from erupting in the first place, and to prevent relapses once a situation has been stabilized. Beyond deploying adequate resources for managing conflicts, it is important to address their underlying causes, and to pursue, more proactively, a comprehensive approach focusing on conflict prevention, peacebuilding, peace-maintenance and development. In pursuing thst cause, my delegation strongly believes that adherence to the Charter of the United Nations should be a solemn obligation of all Member States. We have noticed, with deep regret, that the provisions of the United Nations Charter dealing with the peaceful settlement of disputes have, on occasion, been ignored by the Security Council. In contrast, there appears to be an insatiable appetite for war, embargoes, sanctions and other punitive actions, even on matters that are better resolved through multilateral cooperation and dialogue. Instead of resorting to the peaceful resolution of disputes, we are daily witnessing a situation where might is now right. We have said, “Well, yes, those who are powerful might hang on the principle that might is right”, but certainly right is also might. We need to take stock of the inspiring Preamble to the United Nations Charter, where the plenipotentiaries who met in San Francisco in 1945 undertook to “save succeeding generations from the scourge of war”. That is especially pertinent at present, when global events represent a radical departure from that solemn and noble San Francisco declaration. What do the NATO alliance members have to say about that, one may ask. It is therefore important that the Security Council should respect and support the decisions, processes and priorities of regional organizations. In contrast, recent events — as has already been stated — particularly with reference to Africa, have demonstrated the scant regard that the United Nations and certain powerful members of the international community give to the pivotal role of regional organizations. Effective cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations will become viable and sustainable only when developed on the basis of mutual respect and support, as well as on shared responsibility and commitment. It is regrettable to note that certain unacceptable concepts are currently being foisted on the United Nations membership in the absence of intergovernmental mandates. For instance, there is no agreement yet on the concept of the responsibility to protect, especially with respect to the circumstances under which it might be invoked. We are concerned by the clear and growing evidence that the concept of responsibility to protect has begun to be applied and seriously abused, thus inevitably compromising and undermining the cardinal principle of the sovereignty of States and the United Nations Charter principles of territorial integrity and non-interference in the domestic affairs of countries. For the international community to successfully deal with global economic, social, security and environmental challenges, the existence of international institutions to handle them and a culture of genuine multilateralism are critical. The United Nations, its specialized agencies and international financial institutions are the only instruments available for responding effectively to the global challenges we face in the global village. It is therefore critical that those structures be reformed and realigned in response to both global challenges and our contemporary realities, in order to enable them to better serve our collective interests. This Assembly is the most representative organ within the United Nations family. We must therefore dedicate ourselves to finding consensus on measures to revitalize it so that it fulfils its mandate in accordance with the provisions of the Charter. We wish to reiterate our deep concern that the mandate, powers and jurisdiction of the General Assembly are shrinking as a consequence of the Security Council’s gradual encroachment on the Assembly’s areas of competence. That, in our view, upsets the delicate balance envisaged under the Charter and undermines the overall effectiveness of the United Nations system. The General Assembly must remain the main deliberative, policy-making organ of the United Nations. We have been seized with the debate on the reform of the Security Council for far too long. My delegation fully supports the current intergovernmental negotiations on the reform and expansion of the Council. However, we wish to caution against an open-ended approach that short-changes those of us from regions that are not represented at all among the permanent membership of the Council. Zimbabwe stands by Africa’s demand for two permanent seats, complete with a veto if the veto is to be retained, plus two additional non-permanent seats, as clearly articulated in the Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration. For how long will the international community continue to ignore the aspirations of a whole continent of 54 countries? We shall not be bought off with empty promises, nor shall we accept some cosmetic tinkering with the Security Council disguised as reform. It is indeed a travesty of justice that the African continent, which accounts for almost a third of the membership represented in this Assembly, has no permanent representation in the Council. Is that good governance? Is that democracy? And is that justice? My delegation condemns unreservedly the economic sanctions imposed against my country and people in an unjustified effort to deny them the chance to fully benefit from their natural resource endowment. We wish to remind those who have maintained sanctions against us that there is international consensus — fully supported by the Southern African Development Community, the African Union, the Non-Aligned Movement and the rest of the progressive world — that these sanctions must go. We hope they will go. Allow me to conclude by reaffirming Zimbabwe’s commitment to the principles that have brought us together in the United Nations for the last 67 years. My country is confident that in this inextricably interdependent world, our commitment to the common good, which the Organization embodies, will be resolute and enduring. Zimbabwe will continue to stand firm and to condemn unilateralism, the imposition of unwarranted and illegal sanctions on nations and the unwarranted extraterritorial application of national laws.﻿I would like to thank the outgoing President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser of the State of Qatar, and to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić of the Republic of Serbia on his election to the presidency of the Assembly at the sixty-seventh session. I also want to thank Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon, who tirelessly carries on at the helm of our Organization in an ever-shifting global environment. I wish to affirm our endorsement of the positions voiced in the statement made by the observer of the European Union. As always, Greece remains fully committed to the United Nations, to the values of peace, security, and to raising the living standards of people all over the world so that they may lead lives of dignity. At the recent High-level Meeting on the rule of law, the States Members of the United Nations reaffirmed their commitment to one of the most important principles underlying the international order, which should be our guide in the conduct of diplomacy and international relations. We fully agree with the Secretary-General’s opinion that freedom of expression is a fundamental right and privilege belonging to all people, without any discrimination, and should not be abused by anyone in a disgraceful and shameful way. Unfortunately, there are those who will do everything to provoke, as we have witnessed again recently in the provocative and unacceptable movie which denigrates Islam. Nevertheless, we should strongly condemn all forms of violence, and, in this particular case, the violence against diplomatic missions. There is no justification for it. After all, the measure and limit of every right is the respect of the right of the other. Greece is dedicated to United Nations efforts to enhance international cooperation on the promotion and protection of human rights. We have therefore decided to present our candidacy for membership in the Human Rights Council for the 2013-2015 term. In this context, we also support the adoption of the European Union Strategic Framework on Human Rights and Democracy and the appointment of the European Union Special Representative for Human Rights as important steps towards a more coherent European policy and approach to human dignity. The need to respect and protect human rights and humanitarian law is now as urgent as ever. In fact, illegal migration in the Mediterranean region has given rise to a humanitarian crisis. That is why Greece has introduced major legislative and institutional reforms in the fields of asylum and migration. I now turn to one of the main pillars of United Nations action: peace and security. Greece’s neighbourhood has often been at the centre of serious, interrelated security challenges. My country has consistently played a stabilizing role, which we have accomplished through the pursuit of a policy of peaceful resolution of disputes, within the framework of the United Nations Charter, based on respect for international law and the principles of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. Despite the economic and financial crisis, Greece has continued to participate actively in a number of United Nations missions and operations around the world, including in Kosovo and Afghanistan and in the anti-piracy efforts off the coast of Somalia. Security in the Middle East remains a crucial quest for the countries of the region and the world community. Greece maintains historic ties of friendship, cooperation and mutual respect with its neighbours in North Africa and the Middle East — countries that, following the momentous events of the Arab Spring, are moving towards successful electoral processes and towards building democratic institutions. The European Union should be there, right by their side, as they build their future. However, we have not seen successful outcomes everywhere. In Syria, demonstrators faced tanks and a brutal crack-down. On numerous occasions we have called on President Al-Assad to open the way for a transitional authority, comprising all sections of Syrian society. Yet, we are still in a prolonged bloody stalemate that jeopardizes the present and the future of the Syrian people, and stability in our region. The result has been no less than 29,000 victims, 250,000 refugees, 2.5 million Syrian citizens in need. We are convinced that a Syrian-led political solution is still achieveable, and we see no alternative to such a solution. Greece believes that there is no military solution to the Syrian problem. Peace and security in the Eastern Mediterranean cannot be achieved without a just, lasting and comprehensive solution of the Palestinian issue, on the basis of a two-State solution. We regret the prolonged stagnation in the direct negotiations between the two parties. It is only through negotiations that peace can finally be achieved. We believe that unilateral actions cannot fulfil Israel’s quest for security or the Palestinians’ aspirations for statehood, which we fully support. The two-State solution should remain feasible on the ground. I would now like to outline the current position on some salient issues concerning our immediate neighbourhood. The issue of the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is, beyond its semantic dimension, an important piece in the puzzle of putting to rest irredentist notions and attempts to rewrite history in our region. I have been informed of what the representative of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia said today in the General Assembly (see A/67/PV.12). Distorting reality in front of the entire international community and using nineteenth-century rhetoric in the twenty-first century is counterproductive and will lead us nowhere. Populism and nationalism make up the worst possible mix for the promotion of anyone’s national interests and the stability of our region. Greece believes that the solution lies in a fair settlement. That would be a name with a geographical qualifier, since Macedonia is a geographical region that overlaps the territories of three countries, the largest part being in Greece, followed by Bulgaria and then the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. And of course the name must be used in relation to everyone; it is an erga omnes obligation, to use the Latin phrase. When we resolve this issue, we will be able to realize the vast potential in our relations, to our mutual benefit, and Greece will be the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia’s staunchest ally and friend in its efforts to fulfil its Euro-Atlantic aspirations. After all, as is well known, Greece is the most important economic partner of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, with a large presence of Greek companies operating there. We also support the European Union-facilitated dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, and we welcome the constructive approach to the talks on the part of the Serbian leadership. Dialogue is the only way to resolve problems in Kosovo, while unilateral measures and escalation, especially in the north, should be avoided by all means. Less than two years from now, Greece’s European Union presidency will launch Agenda 2014, which aims to reinvigorate the European perspectives of all our neighbours in the Western Balkans. Elsewhere in our immediate neighbourhood, Greece is consistently pursuing stronger cooperation with Turkey, through a wide range of initiatives, so that we can improve our relations to the benefit of both peoples. Moreover, Greece continues to support Turkey’s candidacy for full membership in the European family, on the condition, of course, that all relevant membership criteria are met and that the necessary reforms are carried out. It is of the utmost importance that Turkey gives tangible signs of full respect for international law and abandons attitudes like the standing threat of casus belli against Greece, or its attitude vis-à-vis Cyprus, which undermines efforts to build trust. That brings us to the Eastern Mediterranean as a whole, where Greece continues to play its role as a force for peace and stability. Greece supports the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Cyprus to pursue negotiations with the Turkish Cypriot community, under United Nations auspices, aimed ultimately at reuniting the island, according to United Nations resolutions and taking into account the fact that the Republic of Cyprus is a member of the European Union, which currently holds its presidency. However, after 38 years, the division of the island continues and the results of the talks have been disappointing, owing to Turkish-Cypriot intransigence about engaging in constructive talks. We applaud Cyprus’s decision to act on its sovereign right to exploit the natural gas deposits in its exclusive economic zone. We are forging partnerships with other emerging energy players in the region, including Israel and the Arab countries, with which we enjoy traditional relations of friendship and trust. Greece is contributing to bringing stability and economic growth to the Eastern Mediterranean, in order to promote energy security and diversification of sources and suppliers for the European energy markets. A resolution of the Cyprus issue would have a tremendously positive effect, not just for the Cypriots themselves but for Greek-Turkish relations and stability in the Eastern Mediterranean as a whole. I will conclude with a few words about the economic crisis that Greece is confronting with the help of its partners in the European Union and the international community. The new tripartite coalition Government in Greece is implementing an ambitious economic adjustment programme in order to improve its macroeconomic outlook and achieve fiscal adjustment, while at the same time addressing structural reforms aimed at growth and job creation. That effort has produced impressive results, especially a significant reduction of the primary deficit. At the same time, the Greek economy has regained more than 50 per cent of its competitiveness in relation to its global trade partners, while the business and investment climate is on a positive path. We are determined to continue along that path, bearing in mind that the Greek people are suffering tremendously from the implementation of the austerity programme. In a broader view, it is evident that this crisis is not just Greek or European. International economies are intertwined, and therefore ours is also a global crisis. In that respect, we need to examine measures aimed at generating all-inclusive and job-creating growth, measures that will regenerate economies and diminish the social impact of the crisis. The eurozone, with Greece at the forefront, is making a hard and painstaking effort and adopting new paths and ways to climb out of the deep economic crisis. The pivotal role and geopolitical importance of Greece in South-Eastern Europe, in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East will emerge as a result of the events unfolding in our neighbourhood. It is indeed a stabilizing role, since our vital national interests are aligned with the promotion of peace, stability, prosperity and regional security. Our advantage is not only our geographical position but also our strong political will to become a cornerstone of stability and security, at a time when uncertainty dangerously threatens our region. During the past two years, Greece has been portrayed by the global media as a country defined by its economic need. It is true that our country is experiencing a painful transition leading to economic recovery and growth. It is also true that the Greek people have known in their 3,000 years of history crises more serious than the present one. We survived. We excelled. Let me assure the General Assembly and the family of nations that Greece will make it. We will make it because Greece is larger than its geographical size and more precious than its present fiscal reality. Through knowledge, science and art, Greece is there when progress takes place. Through democracy Greece is present as a global civilization. Through Olympism Greece unites humankind. Through our merchant f leet and our maritime tradition we carry goods all around the world. Through our love for life we constantly remind the world that progress should always be measured on the human scale. Through and by our legacy we will make it once more. We will make it because Greece is not about asking. Greece is about offering. Let us not forget that Greece holds intrinsic value in the hearts and minds of people irrespective of nationality, race and religion. And that gives us the moral power, the support and the encouragement, along with our partners in Europe, to give to the world and to win our current fight.﻿At the outset, I should like to join previous speakers in congratulating Mr. Vuk Jeremić and the other members of the Bureau on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I should like also to congratulate Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for the work that he accomplished during his mandate, and Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his commitment to defending the ideals of our Organization. The holding of a session of the General Assembly offers each of us an opportunity to participate in a collective process of ref lection on ways and means of ensuring the success of efforts aimed at peace, security and development in each of our States and throughout the world. President Jeremić has rightly recommended that interventions during this general debate focus in particular on the adjustment or settlement of international disputes by peaceful means. That recommendation is particularly wise because this is an issue whose relevance and timeliness are immutable and which is part and parcel of the process of tirelessly seeking peace through means other than the use of force. World history makes clear the operational validity of the principle of the peaceful settlement of international disputes. It also teaches us that processes of dialogue and negotiation, in order to remain credible as ways of resolving conflicts and disputes, must be based on truth and respect for the law and the values and universally recognized principles. They should guard against both hasty action and stalemate, and they should demonstrate effectiveness by producing the hoped-for results, even if this is done in a gradual manner. It must be noted that more than 60 years after the founding of the United Nations, the world continues to witness many situations of war and instability. Terrorism is increasing instead of decreasing. Maritime piracy, which we thought had been eradicated, is once again becoming one of the main threats to peace and security. The Middle East is today a hotbed of tension. Syria is in the throes of bloodshed, and Mali is witnessing attempts at separatism. More broadly, as peace is more than just the absence of war, many scourges still affect humanity. Many are devoting their creativity and energy to destabilization and destruction, by means of drug trafficking, trafficking in persons and other violations of the rights and freedoms of human beings, instead of working for the prosperity and for individual and collective well- being. In addition, for the sake of more than two thirds of humanity, there is an increasingly urgent need to fight poverty, ignorance, violence, injustice and diseases of all kinds, particularly HIV and malaria. After years of difficulties, my country, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, is in the process of consolidating of peace and security. To that end, no effort has been spared, and remarkable progress has been made. Begun for the first time only 10 years ago in a country that has had independence for 50 years, tireless efforts towards democratization, the building of a State based on the rule of law, the development of the socioeconomic infrastructure, and the improvement of the living conditions of our people continue, which is proof of the determination of the Congolese people and of its leaders to be a factor of peace and stability. That momentum, unfortunately, is now under threat by the enemies of peace. Since March 2012, the province of North Kivu, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where the concepts of peace, stability, reconciliation, work and human dignity had begun to regain a foothold, has, sadly, once again gained notoriety, not because of the incomparable beauty of its landscape or the extraordinary richness of its biodiversity, but as an example of the profound evil that selfishness, extremism, communal violence and the philosophy of “might makes right” can wreak on a society. Even as I address the Assembly today, hundreds of thousands of children, women and men in North Kivu are deprived of peace and are being subjected to inhuman and degrading treatment by negative forces, led by unrepentant elements with a vast capacity to do harm and who benefit from external support. Children are unable to attend school and are forced to carry and use firearms to kill other children, even their own brothers and sisters. That situation is unacceptable. It should be condemned and should give rise to sanctions. We expect that the community of nations will shoulder its responsibilities in that respect and that the Security Council will ensure compliance with its resolutions. That is a condition for those resolutions to be effective and remain credible. We are aware that it is up to us, the Congolese people, to defend our country and ensure law and order and security throughout our national territory. We are determined to assume that responsibility and we intend to dedicate all of our human, material and financial resources to that end, even sacrificing our legitimate ambitions for the emergence of Congo. We also remain determined to guarantee national cohesion and ensure equal protection for all Congolese citizens. At the same time, it is my hope to see the Organization encourage all Member States, in particular those that are tempted by violence, to respect the guiding principles of the Charter of the United Nations. In conclusion, I would like to thank all those who, from afar or from close by, bilateral or multilateral partners, including the United Nations, have assisted us in our efforts to build at the centre of Africa a Congo that is united and prosperous and that lives in peace with itself and with all of its neighbours. I would like to assure the Assembly of one thing: the Democratic Republic of the Congo is a safe investment.﻿I congratulate the President on his election to preside over this session of the General Assembly. I respectfully offer him the support of the Panamanian delegation during his tenure. We welcome his proposal to focus this high level debate on the theme “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. That theme is based on Chapter VI of the United Nations Charter, which addresses the peaceful settlement of disputes. Since its establishment, the United Nations has played an essential role in the prevention and resolution of international conflicts. The commitment of the United Nations continues to be to protect future generations from the scourge of war and to ensure that peace and respect among nations are the permanent conditions for global coexistence. International conflicts have always been and will remain a challenge for the international community and a grave threat to freedom and the right to enjoy a peaceful coexistence among all the nations and peoples of the world. That is why all the countries of the world have the responsibility to ensure the maintenance of international peace and security. The Panamanian people possess the strong conviction and the commitment to use all existing peaceful means to solve international conflicts on the basis of the United Nations Charter and international law. Those are simple truths that are easily forgotten, but which we all must defend. They are the basic condition for our existence in full peace, freedom and independence. Panama advocates for the solution of all international conflicts by peaceful means. We support the promotion and defence of multilateralism and of all multilateral organizations as ideal frameworks for solving, through dialogue and cooperation, the problems that afflict humankind so that we may thereby maintain peace and international peace and security. The search for mediation and dialogue has been the stance that Panama has historically always maintained with regard to the conflicts that disturb peace and international political stability. That search must include legitimate representatives of the parties in conflict, who must make efforts to recognize the rights of their counterparts and comply with their own obligations, with sincerity and a generous spirit, to reach just and permanent solutions. For that reason, the Government of the Republic of Panama considers that Palestine has the right to be recognized as a nation-State. However, it must resolve its differences with its neighbour, Israel, recognizing that Israel has the right to a peaceful and safe existence within its national territory — a right that has already been recognized historically and legally by the international community. Panama expresses its concern at the escalating violence that has been developing in the Middle East and calls upon the international community to propose and attempt to enforce plans and solutions oriented towards peace, contributing to ending violent acts that affect the most vulnerable populations. The Government of the Republic of Panama expresses is concerned about the severe crisis that has affected the fraternal Syrian Arab Republic for over a year. We therefore respectfully remind all parties involved that peaceably resolving conflicts is the only means acceptable to the community of nations and peoples of the world for achieving a just and permanent solution. The Panamanian people deeply deplore the murder of His Excellecy Mr. J. Christopher Stevens, Ambassador of the United States of America to Libya, as well as the Foreign Service personnel who were victims of the nefarious attack against the American Consulate in Benghazi. Our prayers and thoughts are with their families. Panama energetically condemns such actions, which cause sorrow and grief to a friendly nation and which violate the fundamental principles of international law, particularly the Charter of the United Nations and the Vienna Conventions on Diplomatic and Consular Relations. The recent attacks on the diplomatic missions of the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Israel and France are absolutely unjustifiable. We reiterate that host States have an obligation to ensure the principle of the inviolability of the diplomatic and consular missions of the world and to safeguard international peace and security, as they are the source of communication and understanding. We call loudly and clearly for tolerance, dialogue and peaceful coexistence, The Republic of Panama is convinced that all international conflicts should be settled by peaceful means, using the instruments and mechanisms that have been created for those purposes. For that reason, Panama formally joined the Group of Friends of Mediation, demonstrating its historic commitment to the peaceful solution of conflicts, which is the central topic of this debate at the current session of the General Assembly. As a firm believer that dialogue is a powerful tool for facilitating peace and the international political stability so necessary to ensure economic and social development for our peoples, Panama wishes to reiterate its call, as it has done on other occasions, to support the Chinese people in Taiwan so that they may have greater participation as observers in international forums, organizations and initiatives and may cooperate and support the development and maintenance of peace both in Asia and other parts of the world. Panama is a multicultural country where people of diverse ethnicities, cultures and religions coexist in peace and harmony and which has historically maintained friendly relations with States of different political and ideological orientations. I am speaking of a demilitarized country, one that by virtue of its domestic law adheres to the doctrine of human security and that possesses a canal that is neutral. In addition, Panama has tradition and experience as a participant in efforts for the peaceful solution of international controversies. Those conditions are our guarantee and asset in advocating for a world that is peaceful and respectful of international law. Panama continues to be committed to multilateralism, dialogue and negotiation among States as the only way to seek and achieve just solutions in global affairs. As a part of this commitment, in 2013 we will host a series of important international meetings at the global and regional levels. Panama will welcome the International Congress of the Spanish Language, an event of a universal character and a forum for the ref lection on the status of the Spanish tongue, which shapes our identity as a nation and unites the peoples of Hispanic America. In 2013, Panama will also host the Conference of the States Parties to the United Nations Convention against Corruption. That demonstrates that the fight against corruption and the promotion of transparency are essential elements of the modern rule of law to which my Government is fully committed. We will also host the fifty-fourth annual meeting of the Board of Governors of the Inter-American Development Bank, at which ministers of economy and finance, central bank presidents and representatives of various multilateral financial institutions will discuss topics related to their financial appointments. In addition, we will host the Americas Competitiveness Forum, which will address the issue of the development of the region’s competitiveness agenda on the basis of the 10 general competitiveness principles of the Americas. We will also host the Ibero-American summit, which will bring together the 22 States of Latin America and those of the Iberian peninsula. That summit represents an effort, involving dialogue and cooperation, to foster the development of our countries by opening up new markets and new opportunities for trade and cooperation with the peoples and the countries of Europe. The international meetings set to take place in 2013 will be held in the context of the celebration of a historic event that marks Panamians to this day. I note that today is the anniversary of that event — the discovery of a passage, through our country, to the Pacific Ocean. Today — 25 September — marks almost 500 years since the so-called discovery of the South Sea, later known as the Pacific Ocean, a feat that changed the geography of world navigation and the history of humanity. With the discovery of a passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific, we saw the beginning of a process of economic and demographic globalization around the world. From that moment on, Panama began to play an important role in global navigation and trade that continues today. Since then, Panama has become the primary hub of the Americas. Indeed, it is one of the most important telecommunications and navigation routes in the world. We continue to make good progress in the expansion of the Panama Canal and Tocumen international airport, which will become the largest airport in Latin America. Both of those projects will make it possible to further develop the Panama Canal route and will have a tremendous impact on international trade and on tourism. The feat accomplished by Vasco Núñez de Balboa on 25 September 1513 helped to forge Panama’s character as a country dedicated to the global transit of goods, and, with the construction of the Canal, it was consolidated as the hub of worldwide maritime trade. There is no magic formula for the resolution of conflicts. Nor do the global conditions exist for the complete fulfilment of Chapter VI of the Charter of the United Nations, on the peaceful settlement of disputes. The world still has some important steps to take in order to ensure that dialogue is always the means of adjudicating differences. There must be a commitment at the State level for meeting that goal. One of the major steps forward we must take is in the area of education. Education not only sets us free: it makes us free thinkers. It helps us understand and respect different ideas. It provides us with an opportunity to be dreamers. Through education we can learn to value cultures that might seem strange to us; being different does not make us enemies. But in order to understand this in an all-encompassing way, we need a good and objective education. Access to information through the Internet and social networks is an indispensable tool to raise the level of knowledge and discernment among all peoples. While I advocate for the responsible use of those tools, I think that we have to go further. I believe that we must also address the issues of equality and self- esteem, which help distance us from resentment and violence. Once again, education is the answer. Such intangible wealth leads us to honest competition. The substitution of competition for violence can be achieved only through a modernization process in which our principles are preserved. A good education is one that is built upon a foundation of ethics and values. Money is not the best type of assistance we can give our children. The best assistance we can give them is an education that is divorced from politics, passions and paradigms. That is the only way to achieve excellence. We must focus our educational efforts on young children. Good, balanced primary education is the base of a solid pyramid. Educating our children properly today is the best guarantee of a better future for all tomorrow. Without education, there is no possibility of dialogue and vice versa. That is the reason for my Government’s focus on the well-being of Panamanian children through the improvement of our schools and classrooms; the creation of a free national Internet network; the provision of free computers; the implementation of a universal scholarship, without any distinction on the basis of class or politics; and, finally, the transformation of our educational curriculum. However, access to information must be provided to children in keeping with their developmental stage, respecting the fact that they are children and requiring that they do the best they can for their age. To respect children is to harvest peace. As I stated at the recent Connect Americas Summit, held in our country in July, we must continue to harness our respective wills to reduce the digital divide and to maximize Internet access around the world. Every step in that direction will be key to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. Nevertheless, I remain uneasy about the risks posed by the misuse of cyberspace for boys, girls and adolescents. Our job will not be finished if we do not assume the responsibility of facing up to one of the most significant ethical and moral challenges of our time: the protection of children and young people from the threat posed to them by the misuse of cyberspace. For that reason, we support the initiative promoted by the International Telecommunications Union in that respect. I also invite all States represented here to share their experiences in order to establish and harmonize, on the basis of international telecommunications criteria, norms that will allow us to ensure that minors are no longer exposed to the risks and dangers disseminated through cyberspace. That should in no way be interpreted as a means of limiting or distorting freedom of expression or the universal use of the Internet, which we defend firmly and with great conviction. Panama is preparing draft legislation in order to establish minimum regulations geared towards protecting our children and adolescents from the dangerous content spread through the Internet and other electronic media. We are currently working to pass that legislation based on consensus with all of Panamanian society. We must become allies and close ranks against Internet sites that promote child pornography and pornography in general, obscene and lascivious conduct, and physical, sexual and emotional violence. Let us combine efforts and take concerted action against sites that facilitate the making of weapons or explosives, that incite illegal drug use, and that promote racism, xenophobia or any other type of discrimination that runs contrary to human dignity. Let us take measures against those who dedicate themselves to making public, using and disseminating minors’ personal information and to making threats of all kinds against our boys, girls and adolescents. Let us harness information and communications technology for the benefit of development and to ensure a better quality of life for our children, and let us not allow the benefits of accessing the Internet to put them at risk. The Government of the Republic of Panama supports the international community and the United Nations through two large-scale projects. The first is the United Nations Regional Centre for Latin America and the Caribbean in Panama, which will host the 16 United Nations subregional offices already established in our country. That Centre will contribute to greater coordination and synergy within the United Nations system, thereby contributing to its operational process, as outlined in the report of the High-level Pannel on United Nations System-wide Coherence, “Delivering as One” (see A/61/583). We invite friendly nations who are committed to those reforms to financially contribute to that project, which will soon be open to international bidding. The other project is the regional humanitarian assistance logistics centre for the Americas for the delivery of humanitarian aid in the event of disasters in the region. Panama is committed to being a responsible humanitarian actor in the region, and we place our advantages as an international logistical platform at the disposal of the international community. Panama’s economic growth is widely recognized throughout our region. From 2012 to 2013, Panama moved up nine places — from 49 to 40 — in the Global Competitiveness Index, which represents our biggest jump in that ranking since 2005, when our country began to be monitored by the World Economic Forum. Such an increase indicates we are doing things well. Panama’s economic growth is the greatest in Latin America. It is based on free market principles, is respectful of the environment, social standards and free enterprise initiatives, and is strongly committed to social inclusion. That has made it possible for us to significantly reduce unemployment in our country to 4.6 per cent and to reduce poverty, including extreme poverty, from 33.4 per cent to 25.8 in just three years, without compromising the riches of our environment. At the same time, our economic growth allows us to allocate resources to confront the threats of climate change, which is affecting and will continue to affect large and small nations without regard for their level of development. We all need to be more responsible in that regard. Panama will continue to advocate for the international community to work on an institutional and multilateral structure that would reinforce the rights of all people to a planet with an environment suitable for the development of a healthful and peaceful life. We will insist on a new high-level discussion forum on the protection of the environment in the context of the General Assembly. Finally, Panama reaffirms that it is a country that favours peaceful and respectful coexistence among all the peoples and Governments of the world. We Panamanians believe that humankind will always be capable of fighting for that cause, united by the hope that we can all build a better tomorrow. There is still time to share, as brothers, in the feast of existence on a peaceful planet that truly belongs to all.﻿Our world is changing rapidly. The black-and-white photos that were taken when this Organization was created back in 1945 are truly testimonies from another era. That was a time when computers had barely been invented. The Internet was decades away. And it was not always easy for the representatives at that founding conference in San Francisco to establish contact with their faraway capitals for instructions that might be needed. These days, we have instant access to the global information network. Tweets are being written as I speak. There are more connected devices than there are people in the world, and development is accelerating in every respect. In 2012, we who are gathered here have all become representatives of the connected nations of the world. But, connectivity also carries risks, as we saw recently in our interconnected financial system, Recently, we also all followed with horror and disbelief the fact that an odious film clip posted somewhere on YouTube could lead to outrage and deadly violence 10,000 miles away. But the opportunities created by connectivity are vastly more important than the risks. Globalization, marked by more open societies in a more open world and facilitated by the enormous advances of science and technology, has been an incredible force for good. Mobile banking brings financial services to East Africans. Skype reinforces messages from the Arab street. Virtual marketplaces unleash entrepreneurial talent. More contact, more movement and more trade — a more open world — have already lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty and despair, and more is certain to come. In this world of connected nations, people around the globe, including tens of thousands of Swedes of Syrian origin, are following the tragedy unfolding in Damascus, Aleppo and Homs with intense concern. We have all been reminded of a simple truth — violence is easy to start but very difficult to stop. What began as a popular protest has now turned into a civil war, which, if unchecked, brings the risk of sectarian fragmentation across the wider region. We must do everything possible to prevent that from happening. We call on the divided Security Council to put global responsibilities above narrow national interests. In the strongest possible terms, we urge the Al-Assad regime to stop killing its own people and start respecting its obligations as a Member of the United Nations. And we remind those responsible for deadly violence and abuse that they should rest assured that they will be held accountable one day. There is no alternative to a political solution. Together with our European partners, we offer our full support to the Joint Special Representative, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi. Syria is a society that is rich in culture, history and traditions. Damascus is one of the oldest continually inhabited cities in our world. To preserve and protect the mosaic that Syria represents is vital to its future, and, I would argue, to all of our futures. But we must also help those now so tragically affected by what is happening. A thousand people are being killed every week, according to the latest reports we are receiving. We are witnessing an enormous human tragedy. More than 2.5 million people are in need of humanitarian help. More than a million people have been displaced inside Syria, and there are a quarter of a million refugees in the region as a direct consequence of the current crisis. The regime must give unhindered access for assistance to the displaced and suffering, and the countries that have generously opened their borders should be commended and supported. Sweden, which is one of the world’s largest humanitarian donors, has contributed massively, and we stand ready to further increase our support here and elsewhere around the world where people in need are suffering. In this world of connected nations, the human rights of every child, woman and man are a matter of concern for us all. Protecting and promoting human rights is one of the central duties of the international community. Not only is that a question of protecting individual human beings — their life, their freedom, their future — but it is also crucial to promoting peace, stability and prosperity around the globe. And critical to those efforts is working for gender equality and the empowerment of women, because it is right, because it is smart and because it is fundamental to realizing the economic and political potential of society. Sweden, the largest financial contributor to the work of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights today, is a candidate for a seat on the Human Rights Council for the period 2013-2015. As a Council member, Sweden would be an active and reliable partner. We would work with everyone who shares our conviction, reach out to those who disagree and support those who need it. But in that area as well, we must adjust to the world of connectivity. The human rights and fundamental freedoms enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights must apply in the modern world of today. Sweden will take every opportunity to champion freedom of expression online and the immense development potential that is vested in the Internet and all of the new communication technologies. Earlier this year, the Human Rights Council decided that the rights that apply off line apply online as well, and called on all States to promote and facilitate access to the Internet. That landmark resolution (Human Rights Council resolution 20/8) was unanimously adopted in Geneva, and I hope that it has been duly noted here in New York as well. The fight for freedom on the Internet is the new front line in the fight for freedom in the world. In this world of connected nations, we share a planet with common development challenges. The world’s poor — indeed, all of us — need development that is inclusive, equitable and sustainable. The international community has met three of the Millennium Development Goals well ahead of time, but we are lagging significantly behind in others. And while we accelerate efforts to reduce child mortality and improve maternal health, we have started to look beyond the immediate future. Sweden welcomes the high-level panel on the post-2015 development agenda and looks forward to contributing to its recommendations. In Rio, world leaders recently launched a process for working towards sustainable development goals. It is up to all of us to take that agenda forward: to involve scientists and business, to explore the potential of information and communications technology and innovation, to pursue all three dimensions of sustainable development and to ensure that democracy and human rights are part of the equation. And as an active partner and a major donor, Sweden will certainly do its part. In this world of connected nations, geography is sometimes of little consequence. Distances might at times seem enormous. But the melting Arctic ice cap in the North can pose an existential threat to small island States in the South. The Arctic today is warming twice as fast as the global average. And right now as we gather here, the Arctic Sea ice cover has receded so much that it has reached a new historical minimum. There is less ice this autumn in the Arctic than ever before in recorded history. The impact of climate change is global. The world is not on track for keeping the increase in global average temperatures to below two degrees Celsius. We therefore urgently need progress in the negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and effective implementation of the globally agreed outcomes. Sweden calls on everyone in this Hall to do their utmost to contribute to ensuring that that occurs, and developed nations should take the lead. There are severe challenges, but there are also great opportunities. Technology brings new possibilities — to reduce emissions, increase growth, and move towards a truly sustainable future. As the current Chair of the Arctic Council — comprising the eight nations whose landmass extends beyond the Arctic Circle — Sweden will make its contribution. Together, we will set an example of positive cooperation in an area drawing rapidly increasing global attention and where, not long ago, many were predicting competition and conflict. We live in a new era. What happens in the Levant, the Arctic or elsewhere has immediate implications for us all. In order to deal with the challenges of this era, the connected nations of this world need a strong United Nations — a United Nations to discuss the issues of today and to truly seize the opportunities for collective action in order to shape a better tomorrow; a United Nations where we convene in these days to say that, while ridiculing what by others is held sacred is mean and offensive, it can never be used as an excuse for violence, destruction and death. But the United Nations — our United Nations — needs to step up to the challenge. The Security Council must assume its responsibilities, in Syria and elsewhere. Member States must empower the United Nations to become better at conflict prevention and peacebuilding, and ensure that it can deliver development results effectively and as one. It is up to us, the Member States, to meet our international human rights obligations, not just in order to protect the individual human being, but because respect for human rights is also, as we have bitterly learned throughout history, critical to peace and security. In these times of accelerating global change, with its great risks and even greater opportunities, Sweden will remain a steadfast member of this global Organization and, together with our partners in the European Union, we will continue to promote an effective multilateral system with the United Nations at its core.﻿I am pleased and honoured at the outset to express our heartfelt congratulations on the election of Mr. Vuk Jeremić as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. We have every confidence in his efforts and in everything that he will undertake in order to maintain the gains made in preserving international peace and security and to promote an international order that will ensure peace, prosperity and progress for all humankind. I am firmly convinced that the proficiency, political skills and spirit of responsibility that he demonstrated when he twice served as Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia will give him the ability to do so. I would also like to underscore the continual efforts of Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, and his determination to promote dialogue as an effective tool for cooperation and to formulate the best possible solutions to international issues. We would like, too, to congratulate and thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his steadfast activities to preserve international peace and security and to promote the Millennium Development Goals, as well as to mobilize the international community to deal with climate change, which now has a negative impact on the future of humankind. The sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly is taking place at a time when many regions of the world are facing particularly difficult political and economic conditions. Aware of the importance of the role and responsibility of our citizens in steering the destiny of the country, we in the Islamic Republic of Mauritania have been able to carry out a peaceful, smooth transition from a repressive totalitarian regime and the mismanagement of public wealth to democratic rule based on credible constitutional institutions, thereby restoring the rule of law. We are also pleased to see that the peaceful settlement of national and international disputes is the theme selected for this session of the General Assembly, and we appreciate the results of the high-level dialogue on that important subject. From that standpoint, my country has enacted a series of laws and reforms enshrining individual and collective political freedoms, guaranteeing the people as a whole the full exercise of those basic rights, subject to the rule of law, and ensuring the independence of the judiciary. In that context, the Islamic Republic of Mauritania has sought to fulfil all the obligations and commitments it undertook under the tripartite agreement with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, on the one hand, and the Government of the host State, the sister Republic of Senegal, on the other. The agreement concerned the organized return of Mauritanians who had been living in Senegal since the end of the 1980s. The operation was completed in perfect accord with all the parties involved and consisted of the organized return of 106 contingents, totalling 24,536 refugees, between 29 January 2008 and 25 March 2012. Mr. Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz, President of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, personally presided over an official ceremony on 25 March in the city of Rosso, which is the capital of the state of Traza. That was an opportunity for the High Commissioner for Refugees, Mr. Antonio Guterres, to solemnly proclaim that the issue of the Mauritanian refugees in Senegal was finally closed. Along the same lines, the Government undertook to resolve the issue of the so-called humanitarian debt by paying those victims who were entitled to compensation and by settling the situation of members of the armed and security forces, Government workers and contract civil servants, whose rights were also restored. There has been a genuine and transparent political dialogue between the parties of the President’s majority and certain democratic opposition parties, which led to an agreement late last year. The agreement included the creation of a national independent electoral commission that is completely autonomous and that will fully oversee the upcoming elections, beginning with the legislative and municipal elections. In addition, there have been many important constitutional reforms, as called for by the democratic opposition. Mauritania has worked to strengthen good governance by ensuring transparency in the management of public funds and by enhancing the independent judicial system, particularly by improving the conditions of judges and guaranteeing their independence. The economy has seen sustained growth, including the implementation of ambitious programmes aimed at improving the living conditions of the people, especially those with low incomes. Since the accession to the presidency of Mr. Ould Abdel Aziz, the Islamic Republic of Mauritania has been reactivating its presence in regional and international organizations, first and foremost in the United Nations and its specialized agencies. We adhere fully to its noble ideals, and we comply with the resolutions, as a strategic choice for our foreign policy. In this regard, we reaffirm our support for reform of the United Nations system, particularly the Security Council. We reiterate our desire to see the African continent receive a permanent seat on the Council, since it is the only continent that does not have permanent representation in the body that addresses international peace and security. That is true despite the fact that one billion people inhabit the continent of Africa and two thirds of peacekeeping operations take place there. In addition, we call for a permanent seat on the Council for the Arab Group because of its demographic weight vis-à-vis the global population and its considerable economic potential, in particular in the area of energy. My country provides effective support to intergovernmental efforts that have been taking place for a number of years to find a solution that enjoys the consensus of Member States on the reform of the United Nations in general, the working methods and mechanisms of its decision-making bodies, and above all, membership in the Security Council and the issue of defining its authority and codifying its working relationship with the General Assembly in order to ensure the effectiveness of our Organization in faithfully reflecting the will of the international community. We note with great satisfaction the tireless efforts to achieve consensus during the sixty-seventh session, including with regard to the conclusions of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, which will undoubtedly contribute — if they are implemented, obviously — to limiting the major risks facing our planet, in particular the phenomena of global warming and climate change, which are now the clear concern and danger facing humankind. We welcome the outcomes of the Second Conference to Review Progress Made in the Implementation of the United Nations Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, which led to a consensus agreement on a programme of action to prevent the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons. Despite the efforts made and results achieved during the Assembly’s sixty-sixth and earlier sessions, including the Millennium Summit, despite the establishment of goals and the adoption of an agenda to achieve them, most developing countries, particularly the least developed, are falling short of achieving their objectives. This is due to a range of factors, including, for example, endemic unemployment, particularly among young people; the prevalence of extreme poverty among the most vulnerable segments of society; and the slowing of growth and stagnation of the global economy. Foreign direct investment is declining in Africa. The prices of basic goods on international markets are rising, which has a direct impact on purchasing power in many poor countries, where a large part of the population lives on less than $1 per day. Rates of net financial transfers to developing countries are falling, and revenue from tourism is falling acutely. Infant mortality is rising. The heavy debt burden seriously slows the economies of developing countries, especially least developed, and directly affects the already modest financial resources of the countries, thereby hampering their ability to meet their basic needs in terms of infrastructure and public services. Against this worrying backdrop, we call on rich countries and donors to honour their commitment to contribute to the economies of developing countries, giving priority to least developed, so that they can have acceptable access to public services, thus ensuring peaceful civil order, security, stability and social cohesion in those countries, and thereby safeguard peace around the world. At the initiative, and with the support, of President Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz, our Government has endeavoured to provide citizens decent living conditions and to help them in times of crises. In this connection, an emergency intervention plan, known as the 2012 Hope Plan, supported by some $170 million of State budgetary resources, was launched to deal with declining agricultural production and pastures declining owing to a lack of rain last year, as our country is greatly dependent on farming and livestock- raising. This ambitious plan is providing food and drinking water for both people and livestock, and at affordable prices with a view to mitigate the impact of the crisis, in particular for the poorest segments of the population. This plan has been unanimously received as a clear success on all levels. It has allowed us to avert famine, epidemics and serious malnutrition in children, pregnant women and nursing mothers. Even livestock epidemics have been averted, with losses being kept within reasonable limits. Our Government is also working tirelessly to broaden access to education and to improve both the quality and quantity of teaching and to broaden health coverage throughout the nation. We have built a modern cancer hospital, which is among the best equipped in the region, and a cardiology hospital and a diabetes centre, not to mention the establishment of 50 dialysis centres. All of this was achieved in a record time of just over three years since the accession to power of President Ould Abdel Aziz following the elections of 18 July 2009. Our subregion, the Sahel, has been for some years a haven for organized crime networks of many types, from smuggling drugs, weapons and munitions to human trafficking, illegal immigration, hostage-taking and especially terrorism. Together they have led to the extremely serious situation currently unfolding in our friendly neighbour, Mali, whose northern regions in particular represent a serious threat to the security of the entire subregion. Given those conditions, we are following developments in Mali with great concern. Reaffirming our deep commitment to the unity and territorial integrity of Mali, we hope that the international community, through the Security Council, will fully shoulder its responsibilities and take the necessary decisions, in consultation with the Government of Mali and neighbouring countries, with a view to achieving a swift solution that would ensure the re-establishment of State authority throughout the territory, a return to peaceful civil order for all of Mali’s people and the complete and lasting eradication of terrorism and organized crime in northern Mali and the Sahel as a whole. The Islamic Republic of Mauritania has steadfastly taken principled positions with regard to that tragic crisis. We swiftly condemned the military coup d’état that ousted the elected President and interrupted the electoral process. We have strenuously rejected separatist claims and unequivocally condemned the occupation of northern Mali by armed terrorist groups. We have continuously reaffirmed our commitment to the unity, territorial integrity and social cohesion of sisterly Mali. My country swiftly and early took all appropriate measures to accept refugees from Mali. Today there are more than 110,000 in a camp that has become the second largest city in Mauritania in terms of population, after the capital Nouakchott. Despite the severe constraints linked to drought and the scarcity of financial resources, Mauritania is providing shelter to those refugees in satisfactory conditions that meet with the approval of international humanitarian agencies, including the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, with whom we work very closely and maintain constant contact. My country is perfectly aware of the close relationship between security, development and democracy and of the fact that security is a necessary condition for development, for the establishment of democracy and for strengthening the institutions of the rule of law. We have therefore made the adoption of the necessary array of legislation a top priority and has committed to adopting measures to guarantee the security and safety of our citizens and of foreign nationals residing in our country among our hospitable, warm people. Our armed and security forces have resolutely and courageously faced criminal terrorist armed groups that have threatened our security and that of our guests. We have therefore been able to secure our borders and restore our sovereignty in each area of our country, and we now control all access points, despite the great length of our borders. The Islamic Republic of Mauritania is most seriously following the dramatic developments of the situation in the sisterly Syrian Arab Republic. We call on all parties involved to put an end to the escalating violence and to focus on dialogue in order to find a peaceful solution to the crisis so that the brotherly Syrian people can avoid further horror, desolation and destruction, as well as to ensure the unity and territorial integrity of Syria and the cohesion of its social fabric. We have every hope that the mission of the Special Joint Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, whom my country fully supports, will be able to open the path to a positive solution to that crisis, which poses a serious threat to the peace and security of the entire Middle East and the entire world, with extremely negative effects on the Syrian economy. We enthusiastically welcome the democratic changes that took place in Tunisia, Yemen, Egypt and Libya. We are convinced they will contribute to consolidating civil peace and security and will bring about a shining future for those fraternal countries and peoples. We have the firm hope that the agreements recently reached between the Sudan and the Republic of South Sudan will lead to the peaceful settlement of all pending issues between those two States. My country is also wholly satisfied with the recent legislative and presidential elections in Somalia. We hope they will strengthen peace and security in that brotherly country, which has been devastated for two decades by the collapse of central power and by a number of other difficulties, including the destruction of infrastructure and the displacement of its people, armed conflicts between warlords, and the activities of armed terrorist groups that have sown terror among innocent civilians. My country is closely following the issue of Western Sahara. We reiterate our full support for the efforts of the Secretary-General and of his Special Envoy aimed at bringing about a lasting, comprehensive and fair solution that would have the consent of both parties and would serve to uphold peace and security in the region and thereby promote the establishment of a progressive, prosperous Arab Maghreb, which our people legitimately hope for. The Israeli-Arab conflict is a permanent source of hatred and hostility and a serious threat to peace and security in a vital region of the world. The legal framework and the general conditions to address that situation have been defined and reiterated for a long time now, in a spate of resolutions in the Security Council and the General Assembly. That has all been formally confirmed via the Arab Peace Initiative, which is based on the principle of land for peace and which aims at resolving the ongoing conflict, Therefore we urge the international community to grant the request that Mahmoud Abbas, President of the Palestinian Authority, made in the last Assembly session, seeking the recognition of the Palestinian State by the international community, within the borders of 4 June 1967. That is the only way to end the suffering of the Palestinian people, which has gone on for almost as long as this Organization has existed. It is also the way for the international community to shoulder its historic responsibility with respect to Palestine and the desire to achieve justice and to ensure credibility and equity between the two parties to the conflict, in compliance with the relevant resolutions of international legality. We also reiterate our condemnation of the standing embargo of the Gaza Strip and the crimes perpetrated by the Israeli war machine against Palestinian civilians, along with the massive destruction of their properties and infrastructure. It is no longer acceptable that all those paths continue to be firmly closed off to an unarmed Palestinian people, who have been assigned to fictitious negotiations that are themselves an insurmountable obstacle to their achieving their most basic right, which is the establishment of their national independent State on the borders of 4 June 1967, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. Promoting a culture of peace and the values and spirit of tolerance among different peoples and civilizations and establishing equity and justice among and between peoples at a global level are the right ways to safeguard peace and security in our world. There are outstanding issues without any prospects for solution. There is a huge gap between rich and poor. There are imbalances in the global economic infrastructure and an absence of genuine justice, equity, and equality. All of those issues have contributed to the escalation of areas of tension and the expansion of the phenomenon of terrorism. The Islamic Republic of Mauritania rejects terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We are committed to our Islamic values, which require that we respect tolerance and fraternity and reject any form of extremism and violence. The international community urgently needs to study the reasons for extremism and the best ways to uproot and eradicate that problem. The noble ideals by which the international community was guided during the creation of this Organization will be respected only if the States and peoples of the world can benefit from the potential of development to provide the conditions for a decent life for all human beings, especially in developing countries, while respecting the values of freedom and equity. That is how we will be able to achieve the values that are at the very basis of the United Nations.﻿Her Excellency Mrs. Kamla Persad-Bissessar, MP, Prime Minister of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, on whose behalf I speak, extends her congratulations to Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. The honourable Prime Minister has also asked me to convey to the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, Trinidad and Tobago’s appreciation for his untiring efforts in working towards peace and security in today’s world. I am privileged to address this Hall at a time when the world is faced with turmoil and uncertainty. Today, the world is radically different from what it was a year ago. The redistribution of wealth and the very nature of global power are shifting. New dynamics are emerging as we witness the growing economies in Latin America, Asia and Africa. The global pattern of distribution of resources is being transformed by new discoveries and by changes in technological processes and in information. The world map of financial f lows has changed, forcing us to look with more scrutiny on the economic forces surrounding us and the threat they pose to financial sustainability. It is in this context that Trinidad and Tobago endorses the President’s statement at the opening of the Assembly’s sixty-seventh session on 25 September: “A growing number of States are determined to enhance their external engagement, aspiring to play greater roles in their respective regions and beyond. As a result, power and influence in the international arena are becoming more diffuse”. (A/67/PV.6, p. 4) When Trinidad and Tobago mounted this rostrum for the first time 50 years ago, our Permanent Representative Sir Ellis Clarke, an illustrious legal scholar, remarked: “We recognize the responsibility which we have assumed with membership in this Organization. That responsibility we can neither shirk nor delegate.” (A/PV.1122, para. 126) Today, I stand in reconfirmation of that responsibility. In these decades of engagement, we are always anchored by the three main pillars on which the United Nations was founded: peace and security, human rights and development. At the core of our commitment has been the rule of law both within and beyond our borders, which is the basis of the theme set for this year’s debate: “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, which reaffirms a core principle enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. Too often we have witnessed the severity of the consequences when States act unilaterally to solve disputes through the illegal use of force. Trinidad and Tobago calls on all nation States to ratify the amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court on the crime of aggression. We expect to ratify those amendments by the next Assembly of States Parties. The entry into force of those amendments will fill a crucial gap by making it possible to bring to justice those criminally responsible for the commission of the crime of aggression. In the light of recent troubling developments, Trinidad and Tobago is compelled to reaffirm the provisions of the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. The Convention requires States to protect the premises of diplomatic missions and ensure the safety of diplomatic personnel. Those sacred principles must be upheld even in times of armed conflict and armed violence. The United Nations is the principal vehicle for facilitating the settlement of disputes or situations among States by peaceful means. The architecture is in place to achieve that objective. However, it needs to be strengthened. To achieve that noble goal, the political commitment of Member States, whether large or small, developed or developing, is absolutely necessary. Member States must move swiftly to restructure the Security Council. For Trinidad and Tobago, the status quo is unacceptable. The Council must be reformed to reflect the geopolitical realities of the twenty-first century. The legitimacy of that body can be reaffirmed only if the new dynamics of global power are reflected in its composition and operation. It is a matter of grave concern to Trinidad and Tobago that the Security Council has not been able to effectively address the situation in Syria. We appeal to the Council to fully support the work of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, the Joint Special Representative for Syria of the United Nations and the League of Arab States. The Council must uphold its sacred Charter mandate and ensure that all sides involved in that conflict are made to account for their actions, which have caused tremendous human suffering and continue to threaten international peace and security. At the same time, we also call for more principled leadership by the permanent members of the Council to bring an end to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Despite the adoption of numerous resolutions by the General Assembly and the Council, and several peace initiatives, including that of the League of Arab States, we continue to witness, almost on a daily basis, wanton violence and tremendous loss of life, resulting in further escalation of tensions. A resolution of the conflict remains elusive, and the conflict is a catalyst for regional insecurity and instability. That makes even more urgent the need to find a formula for enduring peace. The United Nations must commit all available resources to mediating a two-State agreement in order to begin to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian situation, in full accordance with resolutions reaffirming borders existing before 1967. I will now address other issues relating to the global development agenda. The completion of Cuba’s reintegration as a full and equal partner in the international system is an issue close to the Caribbean. Over the years, that policy objective has been given practical content through the establishment of a wide-ranging dialogue and in specific cooperation agreements in a variety of development sectors of interest to the Caribbean, as part of the Caribbean convergence initiative. In the view of Trinidad and Tobago, the imperative of the initiative compels us to regard the economic blockade of Cuba as an anachronism. We therefore call yet again for its removal. We are only three years away from the deadline set by world leaders for the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). While Trinidad and Tobago would have preferred a more equitable geographical distribution on the Secretary- General’s panel on the acceleration of efforts to achieve targets set by the MDGs, we nevertheless welcome its establishment. We also call for fresh and bold changes and a paradigm shift in thinking in the design of the post-2015 development agenda. We must safeguard the environment for future generations and in that regard move decisively to fully implement our obligations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. That would guarantee the survival of those of us who are most vulnerable to climate change, climate variability and sea-level rise. Every moment of delay takes us closer to our own demise. The health and well-being of our people is central to our development. The prevalence of non-communicable diseases, in particular, poses a serious threat to Caribbean development. Trinidad and Tobago laments the lack of action on the Political Declaration on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases adopted one year ago (resolution 66/2, annex). We cannot risk further inaction on the matter. The adverse consequences are significant. We therefore urge that the matter be given high priority on the international development agenda. The stability of many regions is being undermined by the illicit trade in conventional weapons, which has fuelled armed conflict and armed violence. Trinidad and Tobago is encouraged by the support of many countries for the conclusion of a robust and legally binding arms trade treaty. However, we deeply regret the failure of the United Nations Conference on the Arms Trade Treaty, despite the support of an overwhelming majority. That reflects the refusal of a few States to agree to an instrument that would prevent the diversion of arms to the illegal market. Illegal weapons, including small arms and light weapons, in the hands of terrorists, drug dealers, gang leaders and other actors involved in transnational organized crimes, are an affront to the efforts undertaken to resolve disputes by peaceful means. In the Caribbean, and I daresay elsewhere, the high incidence of gun-related crimes is intolerable. We join with our Caribbean Community partners and others in the call for the resumption of negotiations on the arms trade treaty by the first quarter of 2013. We also recognize the important role of women as agents of change — not as mere victims — in all initiatives related to the resolution of disputes and conflicts. Trinidad and Tobago was privileged to host a high-level discussion with representatives of other Member States, the United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs and the non-governmental organization community at the margins of the General Assembly last week on the topic of women, disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control. The high point of the discussion was the signing of a joint statement by Government representatives to promote the equitable representation of women in all decision-making on the matter. Trinidad and Tobago requests all Member States to support this draft resolution when it comes before the General Assembly later in the session. The majority of States settle disputes by peaceful means. We take this opportunity to applaud the special agreement signed by the Governments of Belize and Guatemala to submit their long-standing border dispute to the International Court of Justice for adjudication. We in Trinidad and Tobago have delimited our maritime boundaries through bilateral negotiations and arbitration, in keeping with the provisions of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. This conduct has not only promoted good-neighbourliness among States in the region, but also provided an environment conducive to the exploration and exploitation of living and non-living marine resources so vital to the social and economic development of our people. In this increasingly multipolar world, where interconnectivity is crucial, small States are faced with mounting challenges to find a space and a place in the new world order. Trinidad and Tobago has promoted in every forum the need for constructive dialogue between small States, the Group of 20, Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa, and the international financial institutions. Trinidad and Tobago recognizes this call for a new diplomacy, and we therefore join with Mrs. Portia Simpson-Miller, Prime Minister of Jamaica, in calling on the major international lending agencies to recognize the special circumstances of middle-income countries and not push them to the margins of the development agenda. We must advance the global economic governance agenda. To this end, middle-income and small nations must not be excluded from development cooperation and financing on the basis of per capita income alone. As we look forward to the next 50 years of membership of the United Nations, Trinidad and Tobago has a renewed optimism. In spite of the hurdles of the past, we are witnessing a new vitality in the United Nations today, and we reiterate our advocacy for a new dialogue and a new diplomacy. The international community is once again embracing multilateralism with higher expectations. The ongoing development of new rules and new norms in human rights; trade and development; protection of the environment; and peace and security gives hope that the human tragedies which bedevilled the twentieth century can be avoided. A new leadership with a global mindset must engage the various communities of interests to find more durable solutions in a volatile global environment. This new international leadership must find the right mix of power, politics and economics to achieve the necessary performance level for sustainable regional and global economic growth, and ultimately development, that will benefit the citizens of all nations. Trinidad and Tobago will engage regional, hemispheric and global partners to assist the United Nations in making the world a safer and better place for all humankind. But let me conclude by reminding us all that we do not have the luxury of time. The eyes of the world are upon us. Our actions today must allow tomorrow’s generations to experience a better and more secure future.﻿I commend the Secretary- General for his immense efforts in leading the United Nations and its Secretariat to fulfil its mission and implement the tasks with which the Organization is charged. The theme of this session is very timely. The United Nations plays a leading role in the settlement of disputes by peaceful means. It possesses the legal and institutional framework to do so. States Members of the United Nations have committed themselves to the principles contained in the Charter. The peaceful settlement of disputes therefore primarily depends on the determination of the national and international leaders. Only if they are determined can the United Nations and other international organizations and institutions arrive at decisions and take action. Let me speak about some concrete challenges that require strong will and decisive action by the international community. The conflict in Syria threatens security and stability in the whole region and beyond. Latvia urges all members of the Security Council to find the political will to unite and resolve that crisis. The lives of innocent people must be protected. The risk of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is one of the most serious global threats. The international community should be united in its commitment to prevent it. Latvia is seriously concerned about the potential use of Syria’s stockpiles of chemical weapons. We deplore the lack of progress in dialogue with Iran on the nature of its nuclear programme. We believe that its full cooperation to clarify all outstanding questions is needed. We call for strengthening the efforts to reach the goals of the the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and its action plan. In that regard, we applaud the steps taken by the United States and Russia towards global disarmament and transparency. We hope that they will trigger further efforts to reduce the reliance on nuclear weapons. Latvia also welcomes the consensus outcome of the second Review Conference on Small Arms and Light Weapons. We should redouble our efforts to find solutions on the Arms Trade Treaty as soon as possible. Latvia welcomes the increasingly active role played by regional organizations such as the African Union and the League of Arab States in the peaceful settlement of conflicts. European regional organizations have also been actively working towards the resolution of protracted conflicts in the wider Europe. We see a positive trend towards a political settlement in Transnistria, Republic of Moldova. However, only with progress on the withdrawal of foreign troops will any settlement be sustainable. A multinational peacekeeping mission with an international mandate could be a rational way forward. The consequences of the conflict in Georgia in 2008 will have a long-lasting effect on the security situation in the region. The European Union Monitoring Mission in Georgia is presently the only international player that monitors the implementation of the sixpoint agreement. Gaining actual access to the occupied territories would contribute to lasting progress. In addition, the restoration of a meaningful presence of the United Nations in Georgia is needed. We remain concerned about the increasing number of incidents at the contact line in Nagorno-Karabakh. The conflicting sides should abstain from hostile public rhetoric and should concentrate on confidence-building measures. The conduct of major military exercises in that volatile region should be avoided. Afghanistan has been at the centre of the world’s attention for much more than a decade. We believe that the international community is fully committed to assisting the Afghan Government in strengthening its public administration and the National Security Forces. Latvia will continue its involvement in the European Union (EU) and NATO missions in Afghanistan. We also intend to participate in the missions after 2014. In addition, Latvia will provide a financial contribution to the international fund in support of the Afghan National Security Forces. The future of Afghanistan is closely linked to economic development and regional cooperation. We encourage the full engagement of the Central Asian countries in discussions on the region’s future. Afghanistan has the potential to become a regional hub for transportation and transit. Using our experience as an entry point to the Northern Distribution Network, Latvia is already engaged in training Afghan experts in the areas of transportation and anti-drug trafficking. The global economic and financial crisis has focused leaders’ attention on immediate measures to overcome it, often diverting their attention from long-term global challenges. The world economy remains fragile, even if some positive trends can be observed. Latvia welcomes all efforts to stabilize the situation in the eurozone and supports recent steps in that regard. We are working hard to be part of the solution and to become a net contributor to global economic stability. Latvia’s own gross national product grew more than 5.5 per cent in 2011. That positive trend is set to continue in 2012. Over the past decade, we have achieved significant progress with respect to both income and structural convergence. The quality of governance and economic structures in Latvia is comparable to that of the member countries of the Office of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Looking to the OECD’s expected enlargement, Latvia is ready to offer its experience with transition and with the kind of decisive reforms that are leading us to recovery from the recent crisis. Overall, Latvia has emerged from the downturn stronger and more competitive, with a balanced economy and a positive business environment that positions us well for the next growth cycle. Above all, the sustainability of economic health must go hand in hand with the process of incorporation into the eurozone. Latvia believes that the challenges can be overcome and aims to introduce the euro in 2014. International peace and security are closely linked with two other pillars of the United Nations, namely, development and human rights. Latvia welcomes the establishment of the high-level panel on the post-2015 development agenda. We are pleased that the EU’s Commissioner for Development, Mr. Andris Piebalgs of Latvia, will contribute to the panel’s work. The current framework of the Millennium Development Goals has revitalized global action on development and improved its effectiveness. Latvia’s EU presidency in 2015 will evaluate the progress achieved and contribute actively to the agreement on post-2015 framework, which should remain people-centred, focused, time-bound and simple. In recent years we have witnessed a growing number of people in many countries demanding freedom and justice. The international community must support their aspirations. We must help build stable democratic institutions and establish the rule of law. We believe that respect for human rights, good governance and inclusive economic development will help to prevent future conflicts. Latvia participates in capacity-building in several conflict and post-conflict countries. We actively support nations in transition in their efforts to strengthen the rule of law. We welcome the fact that those issues are now part of the Secretary-General’s five-year Action Agenda and we are committed to their implementation. Latvia believes that economic and social development will benefit from the introduction of the principles of open Government. Civil society in Latvia actively participates in the decision-making process at all stages and levels. Latvia fully supports the work of a strong and effective Human Rights Council. We have put forward our candidacy for the elections to the Council in 2014. In order to keep pace with the modern world, the United Nations needs to change. The time has come to start real negotiations on reforming the Security Council. We support the enlargement of the Council in both the permanent and the non-permanent membership categories. Any enlargement of the Council should include at least one new non-permanent seat for the Eastern European Group. The world is going through a period of turbulence, as shown by recent violent events in the Middle East. We strongly condemn the attacks on diplomatic missions in several countries as unacceptable. Latvia fully supports the freedom of association and the right to demonstrate peacefully. We deplore any attempts to use religion to fuel extremism and violence. Tolerance and respect for our differences are the key to preventing conflicts and violence, both in our communities and internationally. Finally, Latvia looks forward to a fruitful sixtyseventh session of the General Assembly. Let us address the challenges with true political will.﻿On behalf of Mr. Desiré Delano Bouterse, President of the Republic of Suriname, I avail myself of this opportunity to extend to Mr. Vuk Jeremić my congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. The wealth of experience that he brings to this body will certainly assist him in successfully discharging his duties. We pledge our full support and cooperation. Allow me to salute his predecessor for his skilful leadership at the sixty-sixth session. We wish him well in his future endeavours. To Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon we pledge our support for his valuable contribution in advancing the purposes and principles of the Organization. In his annual statement last week, in which he introduced the 2013 national budget, the President of Suriname highlighted Suriname’s strengths and the opportunities and challenges we are facing as a young, vibrant member of the international community. As refiners and exporters of crude oil and its derivatives, as well as producers and exporters of gold, a combination of windfalls in earnings related to the trade of those commodities and the application of prudent fiscal policies, have resulted in a politically and economically stable environment. That stability in turn has become conducive to solid domestic and foreign investments in the more sustainable sectors, in which agriculture and tourism score high. The design and construction of relevant infrastructure demonstrate Suriname’s potential to be a player on the supply side of strategic commodities. President Bouterse also presented a social package in which education and health care figure prominently. He made the point that strong international ratings are encouraging indicators for investors. However, the citizens of Suriname who lack the right opportunities will share in the achievements only if the Government is able to present them with a package comprising job- oriented education at an academic as well as a vocational level, adequate health services, sports facilities, access to potable water, information and communications technology facilities and proper waste disposal. The challenge of financing such an improved social package makes it necessary to empower our production and service sectors by providing funds and know-how to our entrepreneurs. Suriname, as a young nation, is experiencing an ongoing decolonization process that involves both its structure and its mindset. Building a nation of half a million people constitutes an enormous challenge when at least seven different ethnic and cultural traditions originate from the Americas, Africa and Europe, while a considerable part of the population traces its roots to India, Indonesia, China and the Middle East. . Suriname is known for the presence of a synagogue located next to a mosque in the heart of the capital Paramaribo, while Christian churches coexist with Hindu temples and places of worship with a strong African affinity. We are proud to state that we have been able to convert that challenge into a unique and exemplary benefit and that the divide-and-rule policy of colonial days is gradually disappearing, making way for mutual respect, tolerance and peaceful coexistence, which redound to the advantage of all our citizens. Suriname is a country blessed with an exuberant array of biodiversity. That splendid gift of the Almighty must be cherished and protected to the fullest extent. It needs to be mapped out in a way that allows for responsible use. The challenge we face is responding to the genuine developmental needs of our people, while at the same time respecting and preserving biodiversity for future generations, and indeed for humankind. My country has committed itself to that cause by, among other actions, creating a nature reserve of 1.8 million hectares. We have accepted the obligation to educate our small gold miners in the use of modern technology that will not only prove more lucrative and safe but also respect the need for a clean environment, allowing for potable water and profitable agriculture. Suriname must remain green and smart. Suriname is very much aware of the fact that while we have solid advantages as a nation, we can only survive and prosper by adapting to a world that is becoming more and more interdependent. Having been blessed with oil reserves, trillions of cubic metres of fossil water reserves, along with hundreds of rivers, swamps, creeks, arable land and minerals, including gold, copper, granite, rare earth and more, Suriname has become a focal point in view of the ever-growing scarcity of those commodities. In order to maintain and enhance our political stability, we must deepen and widen our eco-commercial position and be able to keep our country and people safe from any outside intervention and interference. Suriname has engaged in a serious quest for integration with its immediate neighbours — Guyana, France and Brazil — at a bilateral and, wherever possible, tripartite level. Suriname is also a devoted participant in the historic movement of regional integration that is growing in form and substance. We are active members of the Union of South American Nations, the secretariat of which will be based in Suriname as from July 2013. We are committed to the creation of a Caribbean Community multinational corporation, giving a more meaningful basis to the single market and economic goals put in place since 2006. As one of the founding members of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, we continue to be dedicated to the integration mechanism of the Americas, remaining committed to the principles and objectives of the Organization of American States. Although our region is making enormous strides in furthering democracy and development, we must draw the attention of the international community to the lack of progress in assisting one of the most disadvantaged countries in the Western Hemisphere, namely Haiti. We call on the international community to honour its pledges to assist the Government and people of Haiti in their efforts to rebuild their beloved country. Furthermore, our quest for integration will never be complete if we continue to accept the isolation of our sister nation, Cuba, as a consequence of the unjustly imposed economic and trade embargo. Once again, we firmly call for an immediate end of those coercive measures, which cause so much suffering to the people of Cuba. When Suriname became a Member of the United Nations 36 years ago, we were little aware of the importance of a number of issues not specifically dealing with decolonization. Now we have grown in our understanding. We realize that a properly functioning United Nations, including a democratically based Security Council, has the potential to become the single most important stabilizing factor in a world that has moved from bipolarity to multipolarity. In the world of ever-shifting economic, political, diplomatic and military Powers, the themes of the sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly were appropriately chosen. We specifically want to draw the Assembly’s attention to the need for dialogue in situations of conflict. In our understanding, it is not easy for Powers that have grown accustomed to controlling other nations to grasp fully what it means to move away from dominance and dependence to interdependence and the need for dialogue in solving real or alleged conflicts. Both the United States of America and the Federative Republic of Brazil clearly endorsed the concept in their statements at the opening of our general debate. We urge all Member States in general and the former colonial Powers in particular to accept the new reality of our world by categorically refraining from applying their own standards in judging the outcome of other countries’ democratic structures and aspirations, disrespecting the internationally accepted principles of territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of nations all over the world. It is within that framework that I quote the closing remarks at the presentation of the 2013 national budget by Mr. Desiré Delano Bouterse, President of the Republic of Suriname: “As regards the sovereignty of our beloved Suriname as an independent nation, our principal task is none other than to respect and to defend the sovereignty of our nation against all violations and attacks from outside. “Whenever and by whomever our sovereignty is being challenged, our legitimate Government has no other duty than to defend and safeguard the entrusted sovereignty of the country”. The United Nations was built on the ashes of the Second World War, and we pledged to save successive generations from the scourge of war. The peaceful settlement of disputes is the only avenue through which we can ensure that the planet will be saved from annihilation. That principled stand must be applied to all areas of conflict, whether the conflict is in the Middle East, Africa, the Americas or anywhere else in the world. The target date for achieving the Millennium Development Goals is fast approaching. The year 2015 will be a decisive year when world leaders will gather once again to assess the implementation of the commitments made. We underscore the importance of creating well-being for all and providing greater opportunities for the vulnerable in our society by giving full access to high-quality education at all levels and affordable and high-quality health care and services, as well as realizing the commitments to gender equality and the empowerment of women. It is necessary to increase the ability of women all over the world to bring about change, to ensure that they can exist in an environment free from violence and conducive to their well-being, including access to decent employment, services and housing. We acknowledge the global burden and threat of non-communicable diseases. In moving towards the full implementation of the Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases (resolution 66/2, annex), as well as other commitments we have made, we stress the importance of multisectoral actions, strengthening health systems, ensuring the availability of adequate and sustained resources, as well as enhanced international cooperation through effective partnerships. Suriname has increased its efforts in the fight against those often overlooked silent killers. The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development concluded without an agreement on a clear commitment with regard to the financing of sustainable development. That is a very serious matter, considering the threat of climate change, among others, to a successful outcome of the efforts of small States like Suriname to achieve sustainable development. The international community cannot abandon its obligation to provide the necessary means to combat the serious consequences of overconsumption, pollution and carbon emissions, which threaten to undo our achievements aimed at protecting the environment and securing the well-being of our peoples. We continue to expect the United Nations to spearhead the efforts for technical assistance and to advance continued dialogue. Suriname is deeply concerned with regard to the basis on which countries in development are classified in the international financial institutional framework. Such classifications, without due consultations, negatively affect the type and level of assistance that a country can receive from international financial institutions. We can only characterize those decisions as undemocratic and as a virtual punishment of our achievements in improving our socioeconomic situation. In conclusion, I wish to solemnly declare that Suriname will always put its faith in multilateralism through its unwavering support for the principles and objectives enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.﻿Allow me to convey to Mr. Jeremić our warmest congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session and to once again extend to him our fullest cooperation. We would also like to convey our gratitude to Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser for his significant work during the previous session. We also congratulate Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon on his leadership at a time marked by the immense scale of the challenges that we face. Chile’s foreign policy is based on principles such as the defence of democracy, respect for human rights and the peaceful settlement of disputes. Among others, those principles form part of the Charter of the United Nations. Their observance provides for coexistence among States at the international and national levels, and thus preserves, for nations and their peoples, the most precious asset of national societies and the international community, namely, peace. Peace is the basic value at the root of this body. However, despite the efforts made, serious problems persist internationally, as well as nationally in some Member States. We have witnessed the Arab Spring, which, by channelling the legitimate expression of its peoples for greater freedom, democracy and respect for human rights, resulted in some cases, without prejudice to the difficulties that remain to be overcome, in processes that have led to democratic changes. Regrettably, in other cases, it has given rise to repression and violence. The repression of their people by dictatorial regimes and the inability to peacefully forge democratic transition processes are the result of a mistaken way of engaging in and understanding politics. Confrontation has prevailed over tolerance, violence over dialogue and conflict over understanding, as we see now happening in Syria. From this rostrum, we reiterate the call to all parties, in particular the Government of that country, for an immediate end to the violence, respect for human rights and the establishment of the foundations for a dialogue that can lead to a political solution of the current crisis, in which justice and the rule of law prevail. The international community bears the responsibility to support that process, while respecting the principles of non-intervention, territorial integrity and, above all, human life. We must condemn the intolerance that shows a lack of respect for different cultures and beliefs and has given rise to outbreaks of violence. Nothing justifies the criminal act committed in Libya against United States diplomats. We vigorously condemn that event and any other act of violence, which, in that particular case, negates the essence of the diplomatic function, which this forum must specifically seek to defend with the utmost resolve and determination. In addition, we have resolutely supported all international efforts towards a just, legitimate and lasting solution of the problem between Palestine and Israel. We recognize the Palestinian State — a country that we hope very shortly to welcome to the Organization. We strongly believe that the Palestinian people have the right to a free, sovereign and democratic State. However, we also note that the State of Israel has the right to recognized, safe and respected borders. Only in that way will Palestinians and Israelis be able to coexist and move forward in peace and harmony. The leaders of the States members of the Assembly have the moral obligation and enormous responsibility of seeking to harmonize interests in order for reason to prevail. The United Nations is the sole international forum with the necessary capacity to address the maintenance of peace, security, the protection of human rights and international development cooperation. It is therefore our responsibility to strive to find the means for consensus to enable us to cooperate in resolving current conflicts, averting future ones, preserving peace and launching a cycle of development for the benefit of our peoples. Chile, through a sustained effort, has enjoyed more than 100 years of peaceful international coexistence on the basis of understanding and dialogue, as well as legally and politically respected border agreements and treaties, as borne out by our peaceful vocation. Nearly 40 years ago, however, my country experienced a crisis that shattered its institutional order and divided our society, leading to a confrontation with tragic consequences. Thanks to a united effort, an exemplary peaceful transition was possible. Despite the deep divisions that were a hallmark of that time, we were able to move forward in building a solid foundation owing to the willingness to reach an understanding that prevailed among political forces that previously held irreconcilable positions. Moreover, despite its differences, Latin America has learned to live in diversity and has progressed more than other regions in the past decade. In our region, various kinds of Governments that propose different political and development models coexist. However, through dialogue, understanding and reason, we have reached consensus on establishing regional integration mechanisms that have enabled us to move forward with common goals. That policy, based on respect for differences and the pursuit of mutually beneficial integration, is at the heart of our foreign policy. Just as mutual respect and human understanding are ground rules of our national policy to achieve freedom, progress and social justice, the same should occur in the international political arena. This is the best forum for the leaders of nations to debate ideas, free from absolute, exclusive or discriminatory positions, which inevitably lead to confrontation. Many of the problems facing us are due to the fact that the virtue of dialogue, which is the only means for our mutual understanding and civilized coexistence, is increasingly undermined. However, countries alone cannot always find the basis for understanding in order to achieve the political stability that makes solid institution-building and economic and social development possible. The international community also has a responsibility. We believe that it is crucial not only to help countries emerge from crisis situations, but also to support them in peacebuilding and development in a comprehensive way. That means support for the rebuilding of political institutions and for internal reconciliation processes and social and economic development, which are tasks for which the Peacebuilding Commission was established. We strongly support its work. In that context, with regard to the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti, we believe that the required modifications to its composition and size must be offset by strengthening the presence of the development component of the United Nations system through its agencies, funds and programmes. That is fundamental to helping the reconstruction and development of Haiti. In that spirit of cooperation in peacebuilding, we also welcome with satisfaction, a sense of responsibility and enthusiasm the invitation of the Colombian Government to assist in the negotiations process launched to put an end to the internal conflict that has affected that brother country for more than 50 years, causing so much suffering. We commend the willingness and readiness of the parties and the courage of the Government of Colombia, which, building on the circumstances brought about through its efforts and patience in recent years, took the decision to initiate a peace process that, we trust, will end successfully to the benefit of all Colombians. We have conveyed our vision of what we believe to be the most profound purpose of politics. On this occasion, we would also like to address the issue of Security Council reform. In order to strengthen its capacities and legitimacy, a more representative and democratic organ that is in line with the new international reality should be formed. Chile reiterates its support for a Security Council reform that envisages the expansion of its membership in the permanent and non-permanent categories, thus ensuring due regional representation and enhanced transparency of its working methods. We also wish to reiterate our opposition to the veto power. However, given its existence, Chile supports the call for the veto not to be used in situations of crimes against humanity, war crimes, genocide or ethnic cleansing. The countries with the veto power have a great responsibility and the obligation to use it with moderation and transparency in seeking to resolve crises, putting aside national or ideological positions that hamper the system and render it ineffective. In that context, our commitment to the main themes on the international peace and security agenda has led us to submit our candidature for Security Council for the period of 2014-2015. As part of that effort, we wish to help strengthen the effectiveness of the multilateral system based on democratic values and principles, namely, equality and individual freedoms and solidarity, which are substantial aspects of our foreign policy. We also wish to contribute to that from the perspective of Latin America and the Caribbean. Democracy demands respect for, and the promotion of, human rights, which requires full implementation of the rule of law. Chile is firmly committed to that. Our own experience regarding a shattered democracy, with tragic consequences for the rights of individuals, which I have already mentioned, underscores for us the importance of developing public policies. It also highlights the need to implement the instruments made available to us by the international system, with particular emphasis on those that support the most vulnerable, namely, children, women, young people, indigenous peoples, people with disabilities and the elderly. In that regard, we support strengthening the functioning of the human rights treaty body system and the work undertaken by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. In addition to the issue of peace, another acute problem for nations today is the international financial crisis. It has wrought havoc on markets, trade, finance, investment and, worse still, employment. As in the case of politics, where confrontation and the lack of dialogue impede solutions and compromises, in economics the improper practices of excessive spending, a lack of fiscal tightening and the absence of adequate regulatory frameworks triggered the crisis that currently affects us and whose end is not yet in sight. The experience of our country and our region has taught us harshly in recent decades that progress and true development require measures that are not populist or short term. Governments must act responsibly and control public spending without turning to that as an easy solution to artificially promote an economic boom. The current crisis blatantly shows the painful consequences of such policies. A rigorous fiscal policy and the establishment of stabilization funds, like some countries have created, such as Norway on the basis of oil and Chile on the basis of copper, are examples of efficient mechanisms for economic stability and balancing global cycles. Similarly, in seeking solutions to the crisis, we must avoid the temptation to resort to artificial and short-term measures. There are voices clamouring for the imposition of protectionist practices to boost the economy. Such practices may benefit a specific economic sector in the short term. However, they have a f leeting effect. Let us not fool ourselves. Protectionism protects inefficient industries and provides citizens with poor quality and more expensive products. Worse still, it undermines productivity, eliminates competition and entrepreneurship and hampers real development. Our experience shows us that we must take the opposite path, namely, greater openness and more free trade. Threats to democracy are thereby overcome through greater democracy. Economic growth is boosted by greater openness to markets and fewer obstacles to global trade. Years ago, our country launched trade liberalization by, first, unilaterally reducing its tariffs and, subsequently, through free trade agreements that today extend to more than 60 countries and that represent more than 85 per cent of world gross domestic product. Chile has the most free trade agreements and has the world’s eighth-lowest tariffs, at less than 1 per cent on average. Despite external difficulties, that policy has enabled us to increase our growth by 6 per cent in the past two years and to achieve the region’s highest per capita income. In turn, it has made it possible to reduce the level of unemployment, poverty and extreme poverty by creating new jobs and social protection programmes. Real and effective integration goes beyond trade. We are also pursuing shared projects with other nations, such as the recent Pacific Alliance initiative, launched together with Peru, Mexico and Colombia. It focuses on the integration not only of goods and services, but also the free movement of people and capital, thus sharing the full potential of our economies. Such initiatives with Pacific Rim countries are not new. In 1994, we were already part of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, seeking to accelerate trade liberalization in a broad region that unites the largest economies on both sides of that ocean. Subsequently, in 2005, along with Singapore, New Zealand and Brunei Darussalam, we launched a process to forge an ambitious free trade agreement. Today, that project, known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, aspires to create the largest global free trade area with the accession of new members, including the United States. Two years ago, only days after the Government that I represent assumed its duties, a natural disaster of global proportions, namely, the fifth-largest earthquake registered in the world since such disasters were recorded, caused destruction and death in our country. Chile recovered thanks to the solidarity and unity of its people and as a result of the generous assistance of friendly nations and organizations. Recently, President Sebastian Piñera Echeñique affirmed the announcement that he made at that time, pointing out that, by the end of his term in office, all material damage would be fully rebuilt. In recent years, we have seen an increase in the number of natural disasters — f loods, tornados, typhoons, earthquakes and mudslides. There is no place on the planet that is not either suffering or has suffered from a natural disaster. No country has the capacity to deal with disasters of that scale alone. There is therefore a need for the assistance and solidarity among nations that we saw not only during the earthquake in 2010, but also at the time of the collapse of the San José mine, which affected 33 miners. The lives of those miners were saved thanks to their courage, to the determination of the Government of Chile to rescue them and to international cooperation. In Chile, we have strengthened disaster preparedness and early-warning systems and have enhanced the national civil protection agency in order to ensure greater coordination at the national, regional and local levels. However, the occurrence of some of those natural phenomena is also linked to environmental protection. Preserving the environment is another topic that merits the attention of the international community and means that we should act responsibly to safeguard for future generations a clean environment and sustainable development that respects nature. The recommendations of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, namely, sustainable development goals, financing mechanisms and a mechanism to transfer and distribute clean energy, should now be implemented. Chile assumed the position of the first pro tempore presidency of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC) with great satisfaction. The 33 member States of Latin America and the Caribbean agreed the Community’s guiding principles and purposes, including the promotion and protection of democracy and human rights, political coordination, integration, the fight against poverty and inequality and stronger global engagement. Among the issues of interest to CELAC that I would like to underscore in this forum is support for the legitimate claims of the Argentine Republic in the dispute for sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands, South Georgia Islands and South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime areas. We call for a resumption of negotiations with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in order to find a peaceful and lasting solution to that dispute. CELAC also wishes to underscore the need to put an end to the economic blockade imposed by the United States of America against Cuba. The General Assembly has adopted important resolutions on both matters. We live in a world of great opportunities, but also significant challenges and global threats that require the coordinated action of the international community in order to ensure an appropriate response. Only through effective, efficient and inclusive multilateralism will we find the best way to respond to those great global challenges. The United Nations system has the capacity to exercise leadership in pursuing international peace and security, in promoting sustainable development and cooperation and in protecting and promoting human rights. Also, in seeking to resolve the global economic crisis, in environmental protection and in the rapid international response to prevent and provide assistance in the case of natural disasters, we, as Member States, must demonstrate the political will to make that capacity a reality and thus ensure that the politically correct action is also morally correct. The President of Bolivia mentioned, in terms that do not comply with the norms of good coexistence among nations, that country’s maritime claim (see A/67/PV.11). Along with the formal note of reply that was submitted to the President of the General Assembly, in addressing this debate I feel obliged to categorically reject the position, affirmation and charges made against my country. It is timely to reiterate to the Assembly that there are no outstanding border issues between our States. Those matters are clearly set out in the 1904 Treaty of Peace and Friendship, and are fully respected. Chile has fully met its obligations under that Treaty, allowing the most extensive free transit through its territory by means of high-quality infrastructure, as acknowledged by the Bolivians themselves. Bolivia has no right to claim access to the sea. The respect of border agreements between neighbouring countries is one of the cornerstones for coexistence among States and is the guarantor of international peace, as prevails between our countries. Before this Organization, Chile reaffirms that the Constitution of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, adopted in 2009, introduced provisions that contravene the framework of international law, which governs the peaceful coexistence among nations. Those provisions are therefore not enforceable with regard to our country. As declared by a committee of lawyers appointed by the League of Nations in 1921 and as acknowledged at the last session of the General Assembly of the Organization of American States, held in the Bolivian city of Cochabamba, this is strictly a bilateral matter. Chile has continued to convey to Bolivia its readiness for brotherly dialogue, based on full respect for the treaties in force, which provide significant benefits for both peoples. It is in the hands of Bolivia to accept that invitation.﻿At the outset, allow me to congratulate Mr. Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I am confident that the Assembly’s work will be crowned with success, thanks to his rich diplomatic experience and expertise. I assure him of Lebanon’s full support in his efforts. I would also like to thank His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, President of the Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, for his tireless efforts and remarkable achievements. I also extend my gratitude to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his keen concern over critical global issues, especially those related to the Middle East, in particular my country, Lebanon, which was mentioned in his annual report (A/67/1). Lebanon, a founding State Member of the United Nations, reiterates its commitment to the noble principles and human values that make up the founding pillars of the Organization. Those standards enable it to act globally for justice, freedom, prosperity and peace and to shoulder its responsibility to address the world’s ongoing challenges. Those challenges test the international Organization’s credibility, efficiency, status, and role in ensuring social freedom, political stability and economic independence for all peoples of the world, free from hegemony, polarization, fear and double standards. In the light of the major developments and changes that have occurred since the Second World War, it has become necessary to strengthen the role of the General Assembly as a universal organ. That should preclude the Security Council privileges, which are currently restricted to a limited number of countries that control crucial decisions, in particular those related to war and peace. In that regard, in order to ensure greater justice and democracy, the structure, privileges and expansion of the Security Council should be reconsidered. The new global political, economic and social realities should be taken into account by extending the membership so as to enable smaller countries to have greater representation. That would fulfil the United Nations principles of equality and justice among peoples. Our meeting today takes place at a time of major global developments and changes, in particular for Arab nations. Political reform had therefore become inevitable in order to achieve democracy and to lay the foundations for freedom and respect for human rights. However, those legitimate demands can be attained solely through a peaceful transition and dialogue, not violence and foreign intervention, which will lead only to more chaos, injustice and division, increasing the number of refugees and exacerbating related humanitarian consequences. Therefore, with regard to the Syrian crisis, Lebanon reaffirms its policy of disassociation at the political and the security levels in order to maintain its stability and balance of powers and in order to avoid unnecessary repercussions and risks. Lebanon has not refrained from providing humanitarian support to the displaced Syrians in Lebanon, in an effort to alleviate their suffering. However, Lebanon alone cannot deal with the increasing number of displaced Syrians and their humanitarian needs. We have provided assistance, but the number of displaced persons has risen and exceeded our capacities. We can no longer absorb them on our own. More assistance by relevant international bodies is needed to help us in that regard. The security repercussions of the Syrian crisis threaten civic peace and stability at the local level and in the Middle East. The international community must make greater efforts to reach a political solution between the parties in Syria, in order to put an end to the violence that is claiming hundreds of innocent lives every day. As we support the freedom and legitimate rights of all people, we need to raise a crucial issue, namely, the right of the fraternal Palestinian people to return to their homeland and to establish an independent Palestinian State, with Jerusalem as its capital. The recognition of the Palestinian State and its acceptance as a full Member of this international Organization and its affiliated agencies should pave the way for a just political solution to the Palestinian question and correct the ongoing historical injustice that has been inf licted on the Palestinian people since 1948. Lebanon is committed to maintaining stability and security in southern Lebanon, and we reaffirm our commitment to Security Council resolution 1701 (2006). However, the continuous Israeli violations of Lebanese sovereignty by air, land and sea — in excess of 9,000 violations since 2006 — are limiting the freedom of action of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) and threatening the security of its members, once again violating international resolutions, specifically resolution 1701 (2006). We appeal to the international community to pressure Israel to respect international resolutions and international law, to immediately withdraw from occupied North Ghajar, the Shaba’a farmlands and the Kfar Shouba hills, and to bring to an end the continuous threats to Lebanon’s security. Lebanon values UNIFIL’s role and its sacrifices, as well as its ongoing cooperation and coordination with the Lebanese army, and we express our gratitude to all participating and supporting countries. Lebanon calls for the full implementation of resolution 66/192, of 22 December 2011, regarding the oil slick on its shores during the Israeli 2006 war on Lebanon, and demands compensation, in application of paragraph 4 of that resolution. We reiterate our commitment to defend our exclusive economic area and our maritime borders as set by international law and in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which affirms our right to exploit our wealth and natural resources. Lebanon, a vital crossroads of religions, beliefs, cultures and civilizations, is a country committed to divine and human values. We are fully aware that diversity and difference are an integral part of life in our region and throughout the world. We reiterate our commitment to freedom of expression, tolerance and dialogue. In the words of Pope John Paul II, Lebanon is not merely a country, it is a message. We consider prejudice towards all religions and prophets a clear aggression against the dignity, values and feelings of all believers, for it can only instigate conflict, violence and reactions that we condemn and could never accept. No one could accept them. We therefore emphasize the importance and necessity of dialogue between civilizations and cultures. Building trust and fostering rules of conduct binding on all are essential to end once and for all the desecration of religious symbols, as well as to ensure respect for people’s feelings and their freedom of belief. Such efforts can put an end to the extreme reactions and condemnable practices that we have unfortunately witnessed recently in certain countries. Respect for religion does not restrict freedom of expression; rather, it is a rational practice of such freedom. In that spirit, Lebanon has launched a national dialogue among the different Lebanese constituencies based on established national principles that were agreed on and developed under the Baabda Declaration (A/66/849, annex), which was welcomed by the Security Council. Dialogue is considered the best means for ensuring stability in Lebanon. Lebanon is committed to peace and strives for its achievement, especially in the Middle East, a region we would like to be an oasis of peace, free of weapons of mass destruction. In that regard, we should remember that Israel is the only country in the region to possess nuclear weapons and that it continues to refuse to ratify the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, a position that constitutes an ongoing threat to peace and security in the region and the world at large. We would like to emphasize once more the need for a peaceful and diplomatic resolution of the Iranian nuclear issue, while stressing countries’ right to use nuclear power for peaceful purposes and avoiding double standards and selectivity, a problem that is faced by many regions in the world and by our region in particular. We also welcome ongoing international efforts to combat terrorism, the scourge of our time. The peace we strive for is founded on what is right, not a fait accompli peace. The justice we strive for, especially in our region, is far removed from the selectivity and double standards that are, unfortunately, the case globally, especially in the Middle East. Our region is still suffering from the consequences of the establishment of the State of Israel, in 1948, and from its ongoing occupation of Arab territories in complete disregard for international law and United Nations resolutions. Peace, freedom and justice are the pillars for attaining both security and stability. They will pave the way to the eradication of oppression, extremism, hegemony and terrorism in our world. Stability cannot exist without a Palestinian spring, and a Palestinian spring can occur only through the full implementation of the Palestinians’ right to self-determination on their land. The Arab world is witnessing one of the most critical periods of its modern history. We have reached a crossroads where societies must make choices that will translate their ambitions into reality. We therefore request the international community to draw up a serious economic, cultural and development road map to assist those countries in that newly reached breakthrough. Our young Arab societies are in need of enlightenment and development that can be achieved only by providing education and employment to put an end to ignorance and improve our living standards. That will also certainly contribute to fighting extremism. We therefore suggest that countries step forward with their technical expertise while others offer financial assistance to draft a plan that could be implemented through the framework of a new institution to assist young men and women working in public administration to promote good governance, efficiency and productivity in governmental agencies. From that perspective, I propose to establish an institution in Beirut that will soon be able to offer an integrated programme on good governance. As the Middle East is witnessing the most tumultous period of its history, we call on the international community to perceive Lebanon as the beacon of hope and message of freedom and pluralism that it is. Lebanon is not merely a small nation in need of shelter in a stormy region, and we are not asking for protection to ensure our own survival. We are, rather, calling on the Assembly to see us in the light of the role that we have repeatedly played. Despite all the difficulties we are facing, our country, which is small geographically but large in its global presence, has proved itself to be the epitome of a democratic, tolerant and pluralistic country among its neighbours. It is therefore the duty of the international community to protect Lebanon, now and in the future, from the turbulence of the region and to help us so that we may thrive, flourish and shine our rays all over the Middle East. Only then will the United Nations provide our unstable region with a genuine source of inspiration, a viable, vibrant nation, an example and model of civil and religious liberties, social diversity and political freedom. I call on all those here not to perceive Lebanon as a responsibility but as an opportunity, an opportunity to provide the safest and fastest path to all that the Middle East can be — democratic, peaceful and prosperous. Let us work to protect Lebanon from harm so we can maintain peace in the Middle East and the world as a whole.﻿It is an honour once again to address the United Nations. This year I would like to focus on responsibility. The recent years of economic and financial turbulence have demonstrated a strong correlation between economic prudence and responsibility in fiscal matters. We have realized, I hope, that sustainability is not a term we apply only to development, but concerns all of us. Responsibility and sustainability apply to the three broad topics I shall address today: human rights, good governance and development. But before doing so, I would like to speak about diplomacy. The purpose of diplomacy is to prevent war. When diplomats are attacked we are all less secure. We know what we are talking about — we too have had our diplomats attacked, mercifully without the horrific consequences that occured in Benghazi. Therefore, the recent assaults in many parts of the world on diplomats, embassies and consular premises are deplorable. Regardless of their motivations, such acts are unjustifiable and must be universally and unequivocably condemned. All countries must fulfil their international legal obligation to protect diplomatic and consular properties and personnel. As recent events have demonstrated, when it comes to human rights it is not enough merely to keep your own house in order. As a conscientious member of the international community, Estonia feels the responsibility to do more globally. That includes paying attention to human rights violations in places torn by conflict, as well as doing more to stop and prevent the violation of the rights of women and the child. It also means making the most of new technologies in the service of fundamental rights and freedoms. The need to take responsibility and do more is also why Estonia looks forward to becoming a member of the Human Rights Council and to working proactively towards the fulfilment of its mandate. Permit me to touch upon the developments in Syria. We have witnessed the complete breakdown of any semblance of the rule of law. We continue to see extensive human rights and international humanitarian law abuses. It appears that both sides have committed serious international crimes. Yet we still see no solution. We cannot look on and wait for the violence to spread even more widely. The Security Council — especially its permanent members — must overcome their differences and find a solution to the bloodshed. The least that all parties must do is to allow for humanitarian aid to be safely delivered and to guarantee the security of humanitarian workers. Without an end to the armed conflict, without peace, there can be no political process. But it is not only Syria that needs our attention. We should not avoid the problem of protracted conflicts that have already waited for years to be solved. We shall speak with one voice against continuing violations of the territorial integrity of sovereign States and for the secure return of all forcefully displaced persons. Moreover, more attention to conflict prevention would help to avoid such violations in the future. A stronger commitment to conflict prevention and to the enhancement of the rule of law can help to avoid violent conflicts and the most heinous international crimes. Under the principle of the responsibility to protect, States committed in 2005 to protect their people from ethnic cleansing, genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. Today the content of the responsibility to protect is not debated. The difficulty, however, lies with its application: when Governments do not live up to their responsibility, the international community must react and act. The international criminal justice system, especially the International Criminal Court, plays a crucial role in providing timely and decisive responses to such crimes. Investigations by the Court may deter further atrocities, prevent their escalation or accelerate their end. It is therefore essential to cooperate with the Court and apprehend those it has indicted. As a result of the evolving nature of military conflicts, civilian casualties tragically are on the rise. Among civilians, women and children are the most vulnerable. When we take that into account, Security Council resolution 1325 (2000), on women, peace and security, takes on a whole new immediacy. Furthermore, conflict-related sexual violence requires more attention. Such violence can easily lead to further war crimes and crimes against humanity. Moreover, in advancing the rights of the child, the International Criminal Court’s recent decision to convict Thomas Lubanga Dyilo was a significant achievement and will, we hope, have a strong deterrent effect in the future to prevent crimes against children. The Crimean War, in the 1850s, brought the world the first extensive photographic reports of conflicts. Today, new media make it even more difficult to hide war crimes both on and off the battlefield. Modern technology brings home the reality and horror of war. We must therefore recognize the important role of technology in advancing human rights. Freedom of expression is a human right, whether in the city square, the press or in cyberspace. For the third year in a row, Freedom House has ranked Estonia first in the world in Internet freedom. We have joined the coalition Freedom Online, a group of States working closely together to advance human rights online. In addition, Estonia looks forward to discussing actively matters relating to Internet freedom in the Human Rights Council, which adopted a resolution on that topic this year (resolution 20/8). The resolution was a genuine milestone affirming that fundamental rights in the virtual world must be protected with the same commitment as in the real world. Internationally, there are worrisome developments related to Internet governance. Too many countries speak about the dangers of a free Internet from a security perspective. The truth is, as we know well, that cybersecurity is needed to prevent oppressive Governments and criminals from wreaking havoc. It is not to prevent peaceful individuals from speaking their minds or gathering information and exchanging ideas. Despite having experienced extensive cyber attacks during the so-called Web War One, five years ago, Estonia does not support more rigid regulation and censorship in cyberspace. Estonia is committed to an open, secure and reliable Internet. It is therefore imperative to ensure that the International Telecommunication Union’s new regulation does not lead to the restriction of Internet freedom and unnecessary limits to the free f low of ideas and information. In fighting cybercrimes, the Budapest Convention on Cybercrime provides the appropriate and primary legal framework at the global level. Globally, there is a deficit of good and responsible governance. Its lack is the root cause of countless other ills. But again, some progress has been made. I was proud to represent Estonia when I signed on to the Open Government Partnership, along with representatives of 42 other countries. That multilateral initiative aims to take concrete steps to institute a new model of governance to maximize the potential of new technologies and, most important, to tackle corruption. The information revolution we experience these days has assisted Estonia to successfully and rapidly transform itself into a rule-of-law-based democratic society. Estonia was the first country where people could cast their vote online in parliamentary and municipal elections. Just a few months ago we conducted our census for the first time to a large extent online. This year more than 90 per cent of taxpayers in Estonia filed annual income tax returns via the Internet. E-government, e-school, e-medical prescriptions and e-parking are examples of Estonian innovation in the field of citizen-friendly public services. They increase transparency and help to prevent and cut down corruption. They reduce costs. Most importantly, however, they have increased the possibility to exercise fundamental rights and freedoms and improve inclusive and responsible governance. Therefore, Estonia wishes to share its e-governance skills and to continue to facilitate exchanges with partners worldwide. My comments on the need to do more apply to the United Nations too. Without reform, its global mission will be unsustainable. We need change, ranging from reforming the United Nations in the broadest sense to cutting the waste of paper. In an information age it is increasingly necessary to distinguish noise from signal, to distinguish genuine data from spin. I have spoken thus far about what Governments can and must do. In our increasingly interconnected, wired and wireless world, civil society and the private sector play an ever-greater role. Governments benefit from involving non-governmental organizations, entrepreneurs and private individuals in governance. Estonia and many other countries increasingly and successfully do so. The challenge, however, is for the United Nations system — a multilateral organization based on modern, post-Westphalian States — to embrace those other actors and to involve them in finding solutions and decision-making. Allow me to continue by sharing some thoughts related to development and responsibility. Sustainable development is not a clichéd utopia; nor is it something forced on us from above. True development can be nothing other than sustainable. Yet we have seen unsustainability masked as development, despite the contradiction in terms. Consider the global financial crisis. Burdening our children and grandchildren with mountains of debt is immoral, as is living at the expense of others. Growth without responsibility is illusory. We have learned that the hard way. Let us not make the same mistake again. We are another year closer to the deadline we set ourselves for achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Were they too ambitious? I do not think so. Aiming high is the least we can do. There is no point in setting targets that we can be confident of achieving effortlessly. Yet we must resist the temptation to sell everything as a success if that is not the case. Failure to achieve all the MDGs is no excuse not to set new targets. The world needs sustainable development goals. We are still in a preliminary phase of the discussion. Let us aim high and do our best. Despite the world’s best efforts, millions remain in poverty. The information technology (IT) transformation will create massive opportunities all over the world. We must, however, avoid a digital divide that would stymie this historic chance to accelerate development in all parts of the world. I was a member of Kofi Annan’s high-level panel of experts on information and communication technology — already a decade ago — and I continue to be concerned about the gap between the digital haves and have-nots, especially because, by investing in IT, countries such as mine have leapt into modernity and transparency. New information and communications technologies have the potential to trigger the next industrial revolution, but governments cannot achieve it alone. Entrepreneurs expanding the range of global knowledge networks are key partners in fighting poverty and creating a more transparent economy. They can also make an outsized difference in their communities and the world. However, Governments must provide a secure and fruitful environment for those sorts of ideas to emerge and prosper. Twentyone years after restoring our independence, Estonia is an example where a combination of responsible free enterprise, e-governance, international partnerships and eco-friendly policies can put a country in the fast lane of development. Experience shows that if we fail to act responsibly, we will, in the end, be forced to do so. Let us begin by acting responsibly.﻿I would like to congratulate President Jeremić on his election to serve as the highest representative of the General Assembly at its sixty- seventh session. In recent decades, his country has gone through a difficult period. I am sure his experience as the Serbian Minister for Foreign Affairs who saw the consequences of one kind of peacefully negotiated settlement and armed international intervention will benefit this year’s General Assembly and contribute to making our deliberations less formal and more practical. Mr. Tanin (Afghanistan), Vice-President, took the Chair. The Czech Republic firmly believes that international disputes and conflicts can and should be settled by peaceful, not military, means. We have been systematically demonstrating that for a long time. When the division of Czechoslovakia was taking place 20 years ago and the situation was emotionally strained and painful for us, it never crossed the mind of any of our politicians that the problem should be addressed by any other than peaceful means. The difficult negotiations, undertaken solely by our own representatives, resulted in achieving a settlement that political representatives and, especially, citizens in both the newly established States considered then and still consider to be a positive solution. Our experience affirms that it is the domestic politicians, in particular, who should be the driving force of negotiations rather than international teams or former political figures from abroad. The mandate of the negotiating parties must be rooted as firmly as possible in domestic conditions and local traditions. External observers must not succumb to the temptation of imposing the settlement that they themselves regard as the right one, but which is not in line with long- term natural developments in the country or region in question. For a number of reasons, those inevitable preconditions are often not met in attempts at peaceful conflict resolution. It is therefore no wonder that we often see the opposite results to those that the architects of a particular settlement would have wished. We must ask ourselves what successful peace talks and international missions are. Do external interventions improve the situation or do they make it worse by hindering spontaneous processes that could reintroduce stability in the region, possibly with smaller sacrifices compared to the price paid through external intervention? For instance, are the developments in Iraq, the unresolved Cyprus issue or the independence of Kosovo a success of the United Nations or not? Let me say a few words about Syria. As a country that has recent historical experience of a transition to democracy, the Czech Republic wishes Syria to be able to take the same path. However, we do not see a feasible solution now. Our immediate effort must focus on helping the people affected by the current tragic situation in the country. The Czech Republic has already sent humanitarian aid to Syria and to Syrians f leeing into neighbouring countries. We have set up a medical evacuation programme for wounded Syrian refugees. Czech experts took part in the United Nations observer mission in Syria. Our Embassy in Damascus is also providing assistance. Two months ago, the Czech Republic accepted the request of the United States for representation in diplomatic and consular matters in Syria. There is no doubt that we must look at the situation in Syria from a broader and longer-term perspective. We should know what needs to be done tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. I am afraid that that is the most important lesson learned from other similar issues, such as the recent military intervention in Libya. Allow me to affirm that the Czech Republic will continue to be an active United Nations Member. The Czech Republic observes and applies the principles and standards of international law in its foreign policy and promotes their international application. We will support United Nations activities in the fields of disarmament and the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. Those issues are among our security policy priorities. The Czech Republic will continue to take part in United Nations peacekeeping operations, as well as in humanitarian and development programmes. It also supports efforts to reform the United Nations, including the Security Council, which in 2005 began to work towards responding to our changed international environment and promoting a more balanced representation of individual regions and States.﻿Allow me, on behalf of my delegation, to join preceding speakers in expressing our felicitations to Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty- seventh session. Let me also seize the opportunity to sincerely commend his predecessor, Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, of the State of Qatar, for his skilful stewardship of the sixty-sixth session. My delegation is confident that under the President’s guidance and wise leadership, the General Assembly will achieve a successful and fruitful outcome. I therefore pledge the full support and cooperation of my delegation to him, in the discharge of his onerous responsibilities. Botswana is among the developing countries that have been adversely affected by the 2008 global economic and financial crisis. Consequently, we were compelled to reorder our priorities and also defer implementation of various approved projects in our National Development Plan, some of which were of strategic national importance. In that regard, we continue to be concerned that many of our traditional donors who helped us to progress to where we are today, have virtually abandoned us following Botswana’s graduation to higher middle-income developing country status. Contrary to the perception that Botswana is an economically well-off country, we now, more than ever before, need development assistance, on account of the varied nature and gravity of the challenges we continue to face. With respect to the African continent, Botswana has followed with concern some recent peculiar developments. The military coups in Mali and Guinea- Bissau early this year are a sad reminder of what we thought was a closed chapter of the dark days of African politics driven by self-interest. Those developments seriously undermine the significant progress which Africa has made to date in embracing and consolidating democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law. We therefore call on the African Union to remain firm and resolute in its rejection of unconstitutional changes of Government on the African continent, and we implore the international community to give full importance and full support to the African Union in that regard. Elsewhere on the continent, we particularly welcome the recent agreement between the Sudan and South Sudan on the implementation of the African Union road map, aimed at resolving outstanding issues in the relations between the two countries. However, we remain concerned about the fragile security situation, and we therefore appeal to both parties to exercise maximum restraint and to commit to honouring the terms of the road map. Although the appeal is made to both sides, we are very much aware that the Sudan is the main cause of the instability between the two countries. The catalogue of incidents of provocation and blatant acts of aggression against the Republic of South Sudan by the North that has led to instability in that region has been typical of the Sudanese regime for many years. We live in times when our common well-being is seriously compromised by such threats as nuclear proliferation, terrorism, climate change, environmental degradation, underdevelopment and pandemic diseases, coupled with the effects of the global economic and financial crisis and internal conflicts. The resolution of the myriad of challenges and threats confronting mankind requires urgent and concerted action by the international community. Because of its universality, the United Nations commands the requisite legitimacy and moral authority to provide guidance and leadership in addressing those threats and challenges. It is therefore imperative that the United Nations of the twenty-first century respond effectively to present realities and effectively handle future challenges. We believe that the international community should act and speak out strongly and forthrightly against human rights abuses and atrocities wherever and whenever they occur. In that regard, my delegation observes with deep regret that, over the past few months, the world community has watched helplessly and failed hopelessly to intervene as Syria descended into protracted anarchy. In the process, the Syrian people have been subjected to a cycle of violent repression and some of the worst human rights abuses and atrocities known to mankind. Even as we speak, the violent crackdown and bloodshed in that country continue unabated. Al-Assad has displaced more than a million Syrians to satisfy his lust for power. He has caused around 300,000 Syrians to f lee into neighbouring countries because of his criminal acts. He has slaughtered 20,000 of his citizens in order to remain President. He has killed men, women, children and babies to achieve that. The international community has, regrettably, failed to respond collectively. And Syria remains a Member of the United Nations, a body with the expressed objective of defending humankind. That surely cannot be right. Syria’s allies in the Security Council and in the region need to be equally condemned. The uprisings in the Middle East, commonly referred to as the Arab Spring, have demonstrated that no amount of force can suppress the will of the people forever. The situation in Libya, Tunisia and Egypt, where the popular will of the people has ushered in democratic dispensations, attests to that. Concerning Libya, which had to engage in an internal conflict to rid itself of a brutal dictator, we commend the Libyan people and their allies in the military coalition that imposed a no-f ly zone in order to remove Colonel Al-Qadhafi and his regime. My delegation is of the view that given its mandate to maintain international peace and security, the Security Council should assume the high moral ground in defending the victims of war crimes and crimes against humanity, such as those currently being committed in Syria. The principle of the responsibility to protect, as expressed in Security Council resolution 1674 (2006), should be forcefully applied wherever crimes against humanity occur. In that connection, my delegation condemns in the strongest possible terms the persistent vetoes by China and Russia of successive Security Council resolutions aimed at putting pressure on the Syrian leadership to cease its heinous crimes against its citizens. We therefore call on those members of the Council to live up to their responsibilities, in accordance with the provisions of the United Nations Charter. We urge the international community to act swiftly to save the people of Syria from further unwarranted bloodshed. Botswana will continue to sponsor and support the various General Assembly and Human Rights Council resolutions aimed at addressing the situation in Syria, as a practical demonstration of our unwavering commitment towards a resolution of the Syrian crisis. It is for that reason that we join forces with like-minded countries in calling for the situation in Syria to be referred to the International Criminal Court for investigation, so that those responsible for crimes against humanity can be held accountable. Al-Assad and his regime should be removed as soon as possible. We must encourage the opposition to unite and to form a transition administration that we can all recognize. We wish to commend Turkey and the other countries that have taken on the burden of accommodating Syrian refugees, have spoken out against the deteriorating security and humanitarian situation in Syria and have responded, with others, to the plea of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) for contributions. For its part, Botswana has made a modest contribution to UNHCR to help the humanitarian relief efforts for Syrian refugees. We also wish to commend responsible human-rights organizations, such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, for the work they do in seeking to safeguard the principles that protect humankind. Their mission — to act as watchdogs in matters of safeguarding human rights — is a very necessary one. Similarly, we commend those humanitarian non-governmental organizations that work tirelessly, with meagre resources and under very difficult circumstances, to bring relief to refugees affected by natural and man-made disasters. Human rights abuses and atrocities are not limited to Syria. It is in that context that we affirm our support for the International Criminal Court and urge it to continue to fulfil its mandate, including prosecuting those indicted for human rights abuses and crimes against humanity. We therefore appeal to States parties to fully cooperate with the Court in its efforts to bring the suspected perpetrators of such crimes to justice. We wish to add our voice in condemning the violence that occurred following the release of a publication that offended people of the Islamic faith. There can be no justification for such a violent response. The violence itself caused offence to its victims. Retaliation against offensive expressions therefore cannot take the form of other offensive actions aimed at innocent parties. However, where democracy is defined as Government of the people, by the people, for the people — in other words, doing what is in the best interests of the people — how can it be in the people’s best interests if freedom of speech results in insults? Other freedoms, in a democratic dispensation, include freedom of association — but we cannot associate with terrorist or criminal groups without consequences, since it is not in the people’s best interests to live among terrorists and criminals. Freedom of expression allows for protests — but only peaceful protests — in democracies, because it is also not in people’s best interests to have violent protests; and in democracies consequences do follow if protests become violent. The same goes for freedom of the press, if it is abused, as it often is. There must be consequences, in order to protect people’s interests from misinformation and attempts to discredit or defame them. With all such freedoms there must be limits. Democracy is supposed to be responsible. Causing offence and insult cannot by any stretch of the imagination be passed off as what we want in a democracy. Trying to justify irresponsible actions as permitted under any of these freedoms, including freedom of speech, is itself irresponsible. Turning to environmental issues, we note the limited and disappointing progress made at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in addressing sustainable development issues, as has been the case at similar summits in the past. As we all know, the world is facing the twin challenges of scarcity of resources and climate change. Those problems are particularly acute in Africa, owing to the high incidence of poverty there. To respond to those big problems, which clearly need visionary solutions and strong partnerships for sustainability on a scale and with an impact that are unprecedented, my country took the important initiative of hosting in May the Summit for Sustainability in Africa. Participation was at the Head of State level, and included representatives of some of the most inf luential and significant private-sector stakeholders in the world. The Summit adopted the Gaborone Declaration, which, among other things, provides for policy improvements at both the Government and the private-sector levels, aimed at integrating the value of natural capital development. The Declaration also calls for increased private-sector investment in Africa to help reduce food insecurity, improve livelihoods and increase sustainability. We therefore call on the United Nations system and the international community in general to commit to implementing the Declaration. There are many important and urgent issues affecting developing countries that must be addressed. They include technology transfer, funding and capacity- building in other areas, aimed at enabling such countries to adapt to the requirements of a green economy in the context of sustainable development. In that regard, we urge the developed world to help developing countries to address these critical issues and take accelerated action in order to deal with climate change and its causes in their economies. However, we welcome the agreement to launch an intergovernmental negotiation process that will lead to the adoption of sustainable development goals as part of the post-2015 development agenda, when the implementation process of the Millennium Development Goals will have run its course. My delegation believes that the process for developing sustainable development goals should be synchronized with the 2013 review of the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. We would like to take this opportunity to commend the work done by environmental organizations worldwide in their efforts to save the planet from climate change and its negative effects. Botswana participated in the ill-fated United Nations Conference on the Arms Trade Treaty in July, whose purpose was for Member States to agree on common international standards for regulating the international trade in conventional weapons. We believe that, when adopted, an arms trade treaty will complement the United Nations programme of action for combating the proliferation of arms and ammunition, which continue to cause untold suffering. Before concluding, I wish to state that Botswana fully supports the call for implementing the Assembly’s successive resolutions on lifting sanctions against Cuba, something we believe is logical and long overdue.﻿Ten years ago, Switzerland joined the United Nations, thus becoming both the 190th Member State and the first country in which United Nations membership was approved by its citizens in a popular vote. The United Nations and Switzerland share the same values and pursue common goals: the promotion of peace and security, sustainable development, the protection and promotion of human rights, and the provision of emergency relief to victims of conflict and natural disasters. We face significant and pressing challenges in all these areas. Climate change, food and water scarcity, migration, organized crime, terrorism and the proliferation of weapons do not respect borders. These are global challenges that threaten entire regions. In an increasingly interconnected world, we have to search for global solutions that respond to regional and national needs. It is not enough to simply maintain the status quo. We have to find today the solutions of tomorrow. The United Nations spans the entire world. Its universality gives it unparalleled legitimacy and enables it to find and implement solutions to global challenges that enjoy broad support. In view of the growing interdependence of those challenges, the United Nations is now more important than ever. It must be at the heart of international governance. The support of every Member State and every one of us is therefore crucial. In order to accomplish the Herculean tasks awaiting it, the United Nations can no longer settle for the lowest common denominator, as it does all too often when consensus is reached among its Members. If the United Nations is to overcome the challenges facing it, it must be efficient, innovative and active. What does that mean? The United Nations is efficient when it updates and improves its processes so that it can act more rapidly and in a more coordinated manner, despite growing budgetary pressures. In this respect, Switzerland supports the reform agenda of the Secretary-General. It should be implemented swiftly. The United Nations is innovative when it develops new ideas and solutions that are tailored to the big picture. United Nations structures have evolved organically over past decades. They do not encourage people to stray from the beaten path. More intensive exchanges within the United Nations and between the Organization and scientific circles, civil society and the private sector promote creativity and ensure broad support for United Nations activities. At the seat of the United Nations in Geneva that type of exchange is encouraged in a targeted manner. Switzerland also supports the strengthening and development of ref lection and research activities within the United Nations. Bringing those activities together in Geneva would further strengthen the creative potential of the Organization. Finally, the United Nations will show its strengths if it can achieve consensus in conflict situations and push through to find solutions. Resorting to the right of the veto in the Security Council is difficult to justify in the event of genocide, war crimes or crimes against humanity. That is why Switzerland, together with other countries, continues to clamour for reform of the working methods of the Security Council. Transparency and the Council’s collaboration with other bodies within the Organization should be improved, and the right of veto should be limited. As Switzerland traditionally defends dialogue, we call upon all States and peoples to commit to greater understanding and peaceful coexistence among cultures, religions and beliefs. Freedom of belief and religion, like freedom of opinion and expression, are universally guaranteed core values that must be protected and respected. Moreover, responding to an unpleasant opinion with violence can never be justified. It must be countered by ideas and logical arguments, and if necessary through legal recourse, especially if national, religious or cultural hatred has been incited. The attacks in recent weeks against diplomatic missions are therefore unacceptable regardless of the motivation behind them. We all bear a common responsibility to promote tolerance and the respect for beliefs. For the current session of the General Assembly, the President has chosen as the theme for the high-level debate “Bringing about adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations by peaceful means”. I applaud his choice. In recent years, the United Nations has strengthened its capacity in the area of mediation and preventive diplomacy, which has brought about a re-evaluation of mediation processes. We need to go further, however, as most of the United Nations budget continues to be spent on peacekeeping operations. Switzerland is therefore convinced that greater investment in peaceful means that could bring about a settlement of disputes, especially through mediation and preventive diplomacy, would pay off in the long run. An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure; that is as true for States as it is for people. It is not just a matter of funding. Every single conflict that is averted means the avoidance of human suffering and the non-interruption of development in the countries concerned. Over the past decade, Switzerland has actively participated in more than 30 mediation processes in some 20 countries. Moreover, Switzerland regularly makes its experts and know-how available to the United Nations and hopes to see its collaboration with the Organization grow. Adapted to current needs, special political missions respond to the complexity of political realities. Thanks to those missions, the United Nations is in a position to react f lexibly and quickly in the event of a constitutional crisis or a coup d’état. As the main instruments of preventive diplomacy, such missions should be strengthened, specifically through the introduction of modalities, financing and optimal support. When prevention is not enough, the international community must act firmly. The United Nations should therefore demonstrate that it is capable of intervening and imposing itself. Switzerland is deeply concerned by the dramatic worsening of the situation in Syria, where human rights and international humanitarian law are being f louted. At this very moment, as I speak, innocent people are dying from bullets fired by the Syrian army and the armed opposition. Thousands of people have been killed, more than 1 million are on the run in their own country and some 250,000 have sought refuge in neighbouring countries. It is difficult, maybe even impossible, to reach hundreds of thousands of victims who, wounded and traumatized, are condemned to wait in zones under siege. United Nations agencies estimate that approximately 2.5 million people need urgent humanitarian assistance. Switzerland has therefore set aside more than $15 million for humanitarian assistance in Syria and neighbouring countries. As long as human rights continue to be trampled upon and those responsible are not sufficiently perturbed, it will be impossible to guarantee security. Switzerland therefore calls for the perpetrators of serious violations of human rights answer for their actions. The impunity of perpetrators is not just immoral; by compromising the process of reconciliation that gets under way in a society after a war, it encourages history to repeat itself. Switzerland leads a group of some 30 countries that are asking that the International Criminal Court take up the case of Syria. I would invite all heads of State and Government present here today to rally to that initiative. The international community must be made aware of the extent of human rights violations in Syria. Switzerland welcomes the work of the commission of inquiry set up by the Human Rights Council and calls for it to be strengthened. It also welcomes the appointment of Mr. Brahimi as the new Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for the Syrian crisis and will do its utmost to help him find a political solution to the conflict in that country. We know that our use of the world’s available resources is not sustainable at the global level. We are exploiting those resources without concern for the future. We also know that human beings are the cause of climate change. The fate of our planet rests in our hands. Much will depend on whether we succeed in making the transition to sustainable development and whether we succeed in moving towards a green economy. The Rio+20 outcome document provides us with an opportunity that we must embrace. We must act today so that future generations do not have to pay the price for our inaction. However, a great deal of mutual distrust remains, as does the fear that not everyone will be able to compete on equal terms in a green economy. We must overcome that hurdle. Switzerland will play its part in sharing the burden of efforts between the North and the South. The Green Climate Fund will be a key element in financing that transition. It should therefore be set up without delay and in an optimal environment. I am convinced that Geneva can offer such an environment. The transition to a green economy also requires new approaches, in terms of both thinking and acting. In any process of change, there are winners and losers. However, with regard to sustainable development the winners and losers are the same, namely, future generations. Either they will be able to continue to live in an intact environment where they benefit from the natural resources they need, or they will have to put up with a decline in the standard of living due to the exhaustion of resources and the broad consequences of climate change. Our common challenge lies in ensuring the well-being of all without overexploiting our natural resources. Switzerland attaches the greatest importance to the post-2015 agenda, which will allow us to benefit from our experience with the Millennium Development Goals in order to prepare for the future. That approach gives us the opportunity to consider all dimensions of sustainable development together and, for the first time ever, develop a universal system of targets for the well- being of future generations throughout the world. Switzerland is convinced that setting sustainable development goals is an important element in strengthening that development. It will play an active part in defining a new system of goals. Switzerland believes it imperative to combine discussions on the post-2015 agenda and on sustainable development goals into a single process. According to the Roman philosopher Seneca, it is not that we have a short space of time, but that we waste much of it. So let us today take on the great challenges before us. Let us join forces to bring about more peace and security in the world and better protect human rights. Let us put an end to the impunity of the perpetrators of serious human rights abuses and bring them to account. Let us take bold steps for more sustainable development in the interests of our children and grandchildren. And let us strengthen the United Nations so that, as the only truly universal Organization, it is better equipped to address those immense challenges.﻿It is an honour to address the opening of the sixty-seventh regular session of the General Assembly. First of all, allow me to begin with a moment of silence in tribute to all the diplomats, from so many countries, who have lost their lives in the service of our common humanity and in the pursuit of deeper understanding among countries. With the opening of this session, the General Assembly has passed an important milestone. Since the first session was convened in Central Hall Westminster in London in January 1946 until the calling to order of this new session, precisely 66 years and eight months have elapsed. The General Assembly is now two thirds of a century old — two thirds of a century during which the Assembly and the planet have been witness to both great achievements and grave injustices and have seen both human triumphs and human tragedies. It has been two thirds of a century during which the peoples of the world made powerful progress. We have launched humans into orbit. We have mapped the human genome and unlocked various mysteries of life and science. We have pulled hundreds of millions of people out of abject poverty. And yet it has also been two thirds of a century during which we suffered deep disappointment — the worst incidents of terrorism in the world’s history, including the largest terror attack ever, here in New York on 11 September 2001; the failure to anticipate and prevent genocide in Cambodia and Rwanda; and the stubborn persistence of totalitarianism and despotism. Some developments were predictable. Others no one foresaw, and nobody could have scripted. As we stand on the threshold of the next third of a century, we are reminded of that old adage, “the only analogy. At one time, sailors would navigate by the North Star. Winds and currents would shift, storms would blow, ships might even veer off course, but the North Star remained fixed — as a guide and as a goal. In the same way, the only way for us to navigate the seas of change is to follow fixed principles and chart a course for immutable goals. In our opinion, those goals are the well-being, prosperity, security and dignity of humankind, objectives that are reflected in the purposes inscribed in Article 1 of the United Nations Charter. We owe it to those we serve — to the people of this planet — to maintain consistent effort in that direction. They will judge our success by how well we further the ends of prosperity, security, and human dignity. One measures results by measuring the results themselves, not by weighing best efforts, not by counting good intentions, and not by calculating inputs. I do not propose, therefore, to dwell extensively on reform of the United Nations. This Organization is not a goal; it is merely the means to accomplish goals. However, the United Nations must spend less time looking at itself, and more time focused on the problems that demand its attention. I make that observation in a constructive and positive spirit. Canada was an original signatory to the Charter, and is today the seventh-largest contributor to the budget of this important Organization. Our commitment to the United Nations has been tested and is proven. Our commitment to the United Nations is important. Nevertheless, because of our commitment to this body, we cannot and will not participate in endless, fruitless inward-looking exercises. Canada’s Permanent Mission to the United Nations will henceforth devote primary attention to what the United Nations is achieving, not to how the United Nations arranges its affairs. The United Nations spends too much time on itself. It must now look outward. The preoccupation with procedure and process must yield to substance and results. If the United Nations focuses on the achievement of goals — such as prosperity, security and human dignity — then reform will take care of itself. As the international community sets its sights on a post-2015 development framework, it should not forget the work that remains to be done and the commitments it has made. The United Nations Commission on Information and Accountability for Women’s and Children’s Health, co-chaired by Canada’s Prime Minister, Stephen Harper, and President Jakaya Kikwete of the United Republic of Tanzania, is the type of initiative that Canada would like to see more of in the future, and its recommendations need to be integrated into a post-2015 framework. The Preamble to the Charter of the United Nations reflects our collective determination to achieve “better standards of life” for all humankind. It sets as a goal “the economic and social advancement of all peoples”. That is no mean ambition. Those of us who recognize a Creator accept the responsibility to use the Creator’s gifts to improve the well-being of all. Openness and engagement are vital to progress and prosperity. Since before recorded history, societies have reached out to their neighbours and beyond. As soon as human beings invented transport, we invented trade, exchanging not just the fruits of the Earth, but also goods, practices and ideas. Informed by our successes and failures — that is, having benefited from engagement and having paid the price of isolation — humankind has learned several lessons. We cannot develop understanding by building walls between cultures. We cannot achieve prosperity by erecting walls between economies. And we cannot advance a people by putting walls between them and the State. It is no longer necessary for humankind to endlessly debate how to make people better off. There is no special alchemy required. Blessed with the benefit of human experience, we know what produces prosperity: free trade among open societies operating under transparent, consistent and fair rules. As Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon recently wrote, “engaging in the world is the best path to a better future”. The fight for the economic and social advancement of all peoples is manifested in the struggle for open markets, open society and open-mindedness. It is a struggle in which Canada is decidedly not neutral. We recognize that the well-being of Canadians depends both on openness at home and on openness to the world. Canadians know, from experience, the connection between trade and prosperity. After all, in order to support the world’s tenth-largest economy with only the world’s thirty-sixth-largest population, we must be a trading nation. We are expanding trade at a rate of unparalleled ambition, and consequently we are looking for partners. But we fully recognize that sustained trade requires stability and security. The United Nations will also be judged by how well it advances the security of humankind. The goal of security is not separate from the objective of well-being. Security is, after all, a vital part of people’s well-being. Once again, openness and engagement are important means of achieving that goal. While there may at times be tension in the means of execution, there exists no fundamental conflict between national security and the open society; both seek to protect the same values, the same rights and the same freedoms. It is not enough for a society to protect its own security. Global security affects all of us as members of the global community. Or, as Nelson Mandela eloquently put it, “freedom would be meaningless without security in the home and in the streets”. Thus, our freedom is strengthened when others are free, and our liberty is diminished so long as any of our brothers or sisters are imprisoned by fear. Because a threat to one is a threat to all, our security is enhanced when we cooperate to protect fragile democracies or to block the forces of instability. The crisis in Syria is a test of this Organization’s ability to achieve results. While the brutal and repressive regime of Bashar Al-Assad continues the slaughter of its own people, the United Nations continues to fail to impose binding sanctions that would stem the crimson tide of that bloody assault. Until the last moment of recorded time, the world will remember and history will judge Member States that are allowing the atrocities to continue. Many people of the planet, including many of the citizens whom we represent, cannot understand why this Organization — despite the sound and fury of debate in this great Assembly — has been unable to take concrete steps. Some ask, “What business is it of ours?” Our citizens would argue that the business is our common humanity, and our mandate is the strengthening of humanity’s bonds. It is difficult to fault their logic. The late Martin Luther King Jr. once said: “He who passively accepts evil is as much involved in it as he who helps to perpetrate it. He who accepts evil without protesting against it is really cooperating with it”. And if the collective interest in our shared humanity does not motivate us to act, then the self-interest of our own security should. After all, a stockpile of chemical and biological weapons does not respect national sovereignty or recognize territorial integrity. Who among us would be secure if the chemical and biological weapons of another Member State fell into the wrong hands? That is why Canada calls on the Syrian regime to ensure that its stockpile of chemical weapons remains secure against possible use or proliferation by those who would do evil. When the post-Al-Qadhafi Libya declared its willingness to destroy previously unknown stockpiles, Canada stepped in and provided $6 million to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in order to achieve that vital objective. Until such an opportunity arises in Syria, Canada stands ready to assist neighbouring States in taking measures to reduce the threat of the proliferation of those terrible weapons. Until that time, Canada continues to call for an immediate end to the violence. Al-Assad must be replaced by a new order that protects Syria’s territorial integrity and all the rights of each and every citizen. I have seen the despair of the Syrian people first hand on the Jordanian border, where a little girl heart- wrenchingly told me that all she wanted to do was to go home. That experience will no doubt leave a lasting scar on the children caught in the middle of the tragedy. We must ensure that they have the opportunity for a better life — for a life free of fear and full of opportunity. I pledge that Canada will work to address the urgent humanitarian crises wrought by the violence of the past 18 months. It behoves all Member States in a position to do so to improve conditions for the Syrian civilians affected by their great struggle against tyranny in pursuit of dignity. Today, the most significant threat to global peace and security remains the regime in Iran. It refuses to comply with Security Council resolutions. It routinely threatens the very existence of the State of Israel. It foments hatred against the Jewish people and incites genocide. It provides aid, comfort and support to terrorist groups. It is guilty of the widespread and massive repression of the human rights of its own people, including gays, lesbians and religious minorities. A nuclear Iran would embolden an already reckless regime and would perpetuate a very destabilizing factor not just for an already fragile region, but also for the entire planet. The Government of Canada has not only formally listed the Iranian regime as a State sponsor of terrorism under Canadian law, but we have also suspended diplomatic relations. Some may ask why a country committed to openness and engagement would suspend relations. We do not take such decisions lightly. On a practical level, the regime’s blatant disregard for the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations created real and legitimate concern for the safety and security of our civilian diplomats. But there is also a great principle at stake. While Canada prizes engagement and open relations, there can be no open engagement with a regime that dishonours its word, repudiates its commitments and threatens to perpetuate crimes against humanity. Canada’s philosophy is captured in the wisdom of Dag Hammarskjöld, the second United Nations Secretary-General, killed 51 years ago while fighting for peace and justice. He advised: “Never, for the sake of peace and quiet, deny your own experience or convictions”. That is why Canada has imposed some of the toughest economic sanctions against the Iranian regime. However, let me be absolutely clear. Our quarrel is not with the people of Iran, but with the regime, which aims to silence their voices. Canada urges Iran to comply with its international nuclear obligations and to cease sensitive enrichment activities. We support the process of the five plus one group of countries. Iran needs to seize the opportunity provided by the international community and negotiate in good faith by showing demonstrable progress and by meeting its nuclear obligations. The Iranian regime still has the chance to redeem itself. In fact, I encourage Iran to follow the example of some of its neighbours, some of whom Canada has supported in building nuclear energy programmes for peaceful purposes. We will continue to work closely with the United States, the European Union and other allies to put pressure on Iran to comply with its important international nuclear obligations. Rather than accept as inevitable the conflict that Iran seems intent on provoking, Canada seeks a peaceful alternative. Iran must act immediately to stop all enrichment and must abandon technology that could be used for weapons. Iran is testing the will of the international community to its utmost. That, too, must end. The world’s security is closely linked to the third goal that should animate this Organization, namely, protecting the dignity and worth of every person by upholding and protecting fundamental freedoms. The great poet Kahlil Gibran inspired us to remember that safeguarding the rights of others is the most noble and beautiful goal of a human being. That principle is not simply a question of beliefs and values. It includes a requirement for action. Protecting human rights and human dignity is an obligation that each State owes its citizens. It is a mutual obligation that all members of the international community must share. History teaches us that an open society that is tolerant, pluralistic and free is the best guarantor of human rights and dignity. A threat to the security of humankind is often coupled with the crushing of human rights. Yet human rights abuses that do not threaten security still concern us. The enslavement of others is a vicious human rights abuse. It takes many forms, such as the notorious political prisoner camps of North Korea, the forcible recruitment by the Mouvement du 23 mars group in the Democratic Republic of Congo, and the early and forced marriage of young girls, which is a truly barbaric form of slavery. Another despicable type of enslavement is the criminalization of sexuality: jailing, torturing and killing people for who they are and whom they love. Other abuses enslave the soul by suppressing, sometimes with brutal force, the right to worship freely, to practise a faith and to hold religious beliefs. Assaults on human dignity, wherever they occur, are unacceptable. At the start of my address, I observed that results matter. This Organization was created to achieve certain goals, and it will be measured by its success in doing so. No one ever said that it would be easy to make real progress in advancing the prosperity, well- being, security and dignity of humankind. It is not easy but it is essential. Despite the challenges, the frequent setbacks and the cost, which is often heavy, we know that the nations and peoples of the world are up to the challenge. As we celebrate Mohandas Gandhi’s birthday tomorrow, let us be inspired by his words: “You must not lose faith in humanity. Humanity is an ocean; if a few drops of the ocean are dirty, the ocean does not become dirty.” Emboldened and bolstered by our faith in humanity, let us move forward together to secure the results that this Organization was established to achieve. constant is change”. The only constant is change. Indeed, our world continues to change and at a rapid pace in all domains. At the geopolitical level, change means a rebalancing of power and new opportunities. Not since the Cold War has so much change occurred so quickly. In these turbulent times, when change can be swift and unexpected, it is all the more important that we focus with precision on the constants that remain true. Canada is a maritime nation bordered by three oceans. Please allow me, then, to use a nautical﻿The advance of democracy has taken place in successive waves since the United Nations was created. That advance has experienced a new acceleration, which we all can all welcome. Without underestimating the difficulties and problems encountered elsewhere, I am thinking especially of the positive developments in Myanmar and Somalia and of the young democracies throughout the world, such as Timor-Leste. But it is, of course, the transformations under way in the Arab world that are foremost in my mind today. When these historic changes swept through the Arab world, they stirred a mixture of deep emotions in those watching, both within the region and beyond. There was fear of bloodshed, regional instability and of a rise of extremism, and uncertainty about what was yet to come. But, overwhelmingly, the world looked on with solidarity, understanding and hope. We in Europe — geographically so close and with our societies so deeply involved with those in the countries experiencing these upheavals — were also acutely aware that the changes and the risks and opportunities that lay ahead would directly affect us as neighbours. Of course, expectations were high. It was tempting to read the events in Tunis or Cairo as the opening pages of a fairy tale. But this is the book of history. It contains dark pages too, some of them tragically being written at this very moment. We are bound by a simple truth: achieving lasting change takes time. New democratic institutions do not run smoothly as if by magic. Turning economies around and creating jobs for millions of young men and women are not things that happen at the wave of a wand. Deep tensions do not suddenly dissolve once a dictator has gone. The long path of transition lies ahead. There will undoubtedly be disappointments along the way. There will be wrong turns, hurdles and setbacks. But I firmly believe that despite the difficulties, the momentum is heading in the right direction and there is no going back. Whatever the future brings, the Arab Spring will remain a turning point. The movement is irreversible. Once the voices of the people have been set free — an unforgettable experience for all those who had never been heard before — those voices cannot be silenced. It is the responsibility of each country to chart its own course and to do justice to the aspirations of its people. The European Union is committed to staying by their side every step along the way. We are in it for the long run. I want to reaffirm that we still believe in the message of the Arab Spring. Europeans are well placed to recognize that political change is not painless and does not happen overnight. We know about long transitions. When European integration first started, within my lifetime, a majority of the countries that are now members were not yet democracies. For us, a transition of such magnitude should not be judged by its speed but by its direction and by progress achieved through countless steps forward. The starting point is free and fair elections. We therefore commend the achievements of Tunisia, Libya, Egypt and other countries in successfully organizing democratic elections, in which many citizens voted freely for the very first time in their lives — elections for which we were happy to lend expertise to national and local authorities. In order to ultimately bring jobs, social justice and freedom of expression to all, this gigantic democratic process will have to overcome, every single day, the obstacles of corruption, red tape and economic privileges and maintain the political determination to ensure inclusiveness. It is an important effort, to which many parties are contributing. For our part, across the region we offer advice to entrepreneurs and officials, help train judges and police and support journalists and civil society groups. In our experience, societies are stronger when women are fully able to take part in the political and economic lives of their countries, when their voices are heard and their choices respected. There may be temptations, once power is gained, to refuse to grant to some the rights that until recently were withheld from all. But a democracy can flourish only when it gives all its people — whatever their gender, religion, language or ethnic identity — an equal say and equal rights, guaranteed in law and in practice. Finally, neighbours can achieve more when they work together. That is why we share experience from our own European union on issues such as connecting energy networks and removing regional obstacles to trade. Bringing together and reconciling former enemies in a common desire for peace, democracy and prosperity has been one of the European Union’s great achievements. Respect, tolerance and non-violence are the core values, without which living together harmoniously is not possible. These are fragile values; sustaining them requires constant attention, especially in a global digital world in which messages of all kinds can spread faster than ever and can easily be exploited. Tolerance is the ability to withstand criticism, to offer dialogue, to refrain from violence. As such, it shows self-confidence. At the same time, respect for the faith and beliefs of others is a key value for living together. Tolerance and respect acquire their full meaning in an open society that protects freedom of expression. Each and every one of us in this Hall has a responsibility to defend and promote tolerance in and between our countries, as well as respect. Violence and killing, such as that of United States Ambassador Christopher Stevens, can never be justified, regardless of their motivations. Today I join the voice of Europe to those who have spoken to deplore the civil war raging in Syria. Confronted with the massacre of tens of thousands of people, the world has united in horror and condemnation, but — we must be frank — we have not yet been able to stop the brutal violence. Of course Europe and others provide humanitarian support to refugees. Of course we support individuals who risk their lives collecting evidence of the massacres. Of course our diplomats in Damascus do their utmost to support the United Nations efforts for a peaceful solution. But we will remain powerless unless the international community unites in a common determination to end this senseless violence, which threatens to wreak havoc in the whole region. I should like to commend the excellent work and strong commitment of the Secretary-General, as well as that of Special Representative Lakhdar Brahimi, to find a solution to overcome this tragedy. I also welcome the initiatives aimed at bringing together the main regional players in a coherent international approach. Earlier this year, European leaders called upon all members of the Security Council to work together in an effort to stop the violence. Today that call is even more urgent. The country needs to move quickly towards a Syrian-led political transition that meets the democratic aspirations of the Syrian people, while fully respecting the civil and human rights of minorities. It is the only way out. Those responsible for the repression have no place in determining the future of Syria and must step aside. The longer that the conflict continues, the more radicalized people will become, the more blood will needlessly be shed, and the longer it will take for the wounds to heal. The security situation remains complex and fragile in many parts of the world. The events of the Arab Spring should not distract us from the urgent task of achieving peace in the Middle East — quite the contrary. There are also other pressing issues, including addressing instability and the humanitarian situation in the Sahel region; bringing peace and stability to the Great Lakes region; convincing the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons and missile programmes; and finding a negotiated solution to the Iranian nuclear issue, an issue to which the European Union is directly committed. We must address all of those concerns, with the knowldege that lasting solutions require political will from the countries involved. In the same spirit, it is important that tensions in the East and South-East Asian maritime areas subside and that disputes be settled peacefully in a spirit of cooperation based on respect for international law. There are many global challenges that we must tackle together. But without multilateral cooperation on issues ranging from fighting climate change to reducing poverty around the world, we will not succeed. That is why the European Union fully supports a stronger, more effective and more efficient United Nations. Citizens in all our countries want jobs. In that regard as well, global cooperation is indispensable and is the best way to ensure the world’s economic recovery. Our economies have become completely interdependent. No country can solve its issues alone; no country can afford to ignore the problems of others. Do we know that? Yes. Do we act upon that knowledge? Not often enough. In 2008, at the start of the global financial crisis, there was a brief moment of global awareness, a sense of urgency that led to new forums, joint pledges and coordinated action. Today, although the crisis is still with us, our resolve in the current period after the failure of Lehman Brothers seems to have waned and must be revived. All major economies need to play their part in putting the world economy back on the path of growth. Global growth depends on structural reforms in each of our countries and on reducing the macroeconomic imbalances among them. In Europe we are doing our part of that work. No effort has been spared to overcome the current difficulties in the eurozone. We have been setting up stronger firewalls to guarantee the stability of our common currency, and we are reforming our economies to become more competitive and create jobs for the future. We have started building a banking union to better manage and contain financial sector risk; and in the coming months we will be defining the perspectives on where we are headed and where we want our economic and monetary union to be in 10 years’ time. We have already come a long way, and today we see the first results of that collective endeavour. Although there is still some way to go, I am confident that those efforts will meet with success and that Europe will emerge from the experience stronger, economically and politically. That is what I have come before the Assembly to say. In our view as Europeans, managing the financial crisis not only concerns monetary operations and balancing budgets. What is at stake is the very future of our European project. The project was born in order to overcome the wars and dictatorships that had long haunted our continent. For 60 years, our union has allowed us to end nationalist hatred between countries and to establish a unified continent in peace that seeks social justice and prosperity, which requires daily efforts to maintain those values and establish them more firmly. Gains can always be forfeited. At the global level, it is the task of the General Assembly to strive tirelessly to pursue the same goals that we all share, and to clear the way forward towards greater harmony and greater progress throughout the world.﻿It is always a great honour for me to address the General Assembly. The Assembly gives us a unique opportunity to debate the key challenges of our world and time, and to identify and confront the problems that our nations are facing. It is a moment of collective ref lection and it should be a moment of truth. Today, 20 months after the act of despair of a young Tunisian citizen that strongly shook the world and generated so many hopes around the globe, many people have doubts. Some are telling us that the images of liberation and joy seen around the world have been replaced by broken promises, despair and chaos, that the world was better off when fewer people were free, and that the international system was more stable when fewer societies were open. I have come here today to make the opposite argument. I have come here today to make the case for open societies. After the horrible attack on the United States consulate in Benghazi and the death of Ambassador Chris Stevens, I called the American Ambassador in Georgia to convey my condolences and to speak to him, to share my sorrow and express my support for this unique nation. I was struck by what he told me. I was struck by the fact that American diplomats, beyond their pain and their anger, still believed so clearly that the liberation of Libya was fundamentally a good thing. Just a few days ago, the United States Ambassador in my country was proved right by the demonstrations held by the citizens of Benghazi, who went out to protest against extremist militias and to show their support for the achievement of peace and prosperity in their own country. I was also struck by the visit last week to the United States by Aung San Suu Kyi, the joyous reception that America gave her, and her desire to come and tell her story with serenity and determination, a story of progress towards freedom in the face of seemingly impossible odds. Twenty months after the act of despair and tragic death of Mohamed Bouazizi, there are many who doubt the cause to which Ambassador Stevens gave his life, who doubt the vision of Aung San Suu Kyi, who doubt freedom. I am totally certain that the skeptics are wrong. A free society has never meant a society without problems. On the contrary, an open society has problems, exposes them, shows them, deals with them and does not neglect them, because it keeps arguments open and gives Government a chance to be accountable. An open society is a place where improvements are often reached through noisy, painful and chaotic processes. Montesquieu wrote a long time ago that if everyone agrees with the Government and everyone agrees with one another, that is not a country; that is a cemetery. I speak from personal experience. My own country confronted democracy’s challenges once again this past week when evidence emerged of abuses in our prison system. The facts were sickening, and our responsibility was clear. Our reaction was swift, and we did what democracies must do. We identified those responsible, and they were all arrested. Two Government Ministers have resigned, and we put in charge of the prison system its fiercest critic: the Georgian human rights defender, Georgia’s ombudsman. That is how democracies learn; that is how we improve. That is how my own Government has overcome past errors and challenges to emerge stronger, more effective and ever more committed to building and institutionalizing an open society. It is clear that there are no shortcuts to accountability, and no fast-track lines to freedom. Building and maintaining an open society entails a painful learning process and significant risk-taking. But the conclusion we must draw in this respect, from Georgia to the events in Myanmar, is this: such risks are worth taking. I am speaking to the Assembly on the eve of crucial elections in my country. I realize clearly the magnitude of the challenges that face this body and this troubled world, from the menace of nuclear proliferation to global warming and poverty. But today I ask for the Assembly’s attention with respect to the events unfolding in Georgia, because I believe that they are part of the broader, global question facing us today: whether the quest for democracy and freedom can and will endure. I came here to say that Georgia will remain an open society. That is the choice of our citizens, and there is no alternative to this. On 1 October, my nation will vote in parliamentary elections. We look forward to that day and to the opportunity to renew and strengthen the fundamental social contract that allows citizens to freely judge and choose their leaders. Georgia has conducted several elections in recent years, all of which were monitored by international observers and all of which were free and fair. We live in a world in which yesterday’s accomplishments are never enough, and I have made a commitment to the effect that this year’s vote will be even more free and fair than the previous ones. We have taken numerous steps to pursue that goal. We have increased public funding and given free airtime on all national channels for ads from all political parties, in addition to whatever they can buy with their own money. We have proposed to all national television channels a “must carry/must offer” requirement, to ensure that all private cable networks, large and small, broadcast all news-based television, and they have accepted that proposal. We have welcomed the first televised debate in our country’s history between candidates for Prime Minister and heads of candidate lists. We have initiated a code of conduct to eradicate political intimidation, the use of administrative resources, vote-buying, campaign- related violence and hate speech in any shape or form, which for so many years was used to promote hatred against ethnic and religious minorities. Regrettably, not all actors in the Georgian political arena share those principles, and some are purposefully working to undermine the legitimacy of Georgia’s democratic institutions — how they are perceived at home and by the international community. Our response to deliberate attempts to short- circuit our democracy is straightforward: democratic, transparent and rule-of-law-based processes will not be compromised. This is not only my demand; it is the demand of the people of Georgia. Georgia is a young democracy, and we know the value that comes from partnerships and engagement with the international community. As in the past, we have once again opened our doors and invited credible international election monitors to visit our country, including the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the European Parliament, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the United States Congress and respected international non-governmental organizations. To date, the interim reports of almost every election observation mission have consistently underscored that these are the most competitive elections in Georgia’s history. On 1 October, notwithstanding significant attempts to undermine that dynamic, the Georgian people will make their decision. I am confident that Georgian democracy will prevail and reject those who seek to close Georgia’s doors. Georgian democracy will prevail if, and only if, Georgian elections remain a Georgian process. Today, in this forum, I am obliged to draw the Assembly’s attention to externally generated security threats to my country. The European Union monitoring mission has just announced that Russian forces are currently undertaking a massive, illegal military buildup, occupying territory inside Georgia, on the former territory of South Ossetia, which is within Georgia’s internationally recognized borders. Even as we speak, they are bringing offensive weapons and troops inside our internationally recognized borders. The Russian military has made the extraordinary decision to hold large-scale military exercises in the North and the South Caucasus on the eve and around the time of our elections. One cannot imagine an approach more provocative and irresponsible than that of mobilizing military forces during this crucial moment of any nation’s democratic life. There has been involvement by Russia for months: first, billions of dollars in Russian money came into the Georgian election campaign. Lots of other resources were allocated, and now Russian troops are trying to be some kind of background players in this process. That is why I call today on all our allies and friends, and all members of goodwill in the international community, not to ignore or dismiss this worrisome development. I would like to use this opportunity to ask the world to pay attention during the next few days, to speak in a unified voice against these threats, in support of our sovereignty and democratic institutions. In short, the vigilance and engagement of Member States is required to ensure that history does not repeat itself and that 2012 does not become a repeat of 2008, or especially of 1921, when Russia ended our independence and we became a place that was dominated by violence and oppression for 70-plus years. We should look at what has happened in recent years. We had a massive-scale invasion by Russia, the successor to the Soviet Union, in 2008. We are a country of just 4.7 million people — less than 5 million people — and that country is 100 times larger, and well armed. If we look at history, we see that during the twentieth century it invaded many countries. The Soviet Union invaded Baltic countries; it invaded large parts of Poland and ended its independence. In 1956 the Soviet Union invaded Hungary, killed its President and ended its independence. In 1968 it invaded Czechoslovakia, deposed its Government and ended its independence. In 1979 it invaded a much bigger country than Georgia, Afghanistan, killed its President within one hour and ended its independence. In 2008 it invaded our country, a smaller country than any of those I have mentioned, and occupied part of its territory. However, none of the strategic goals of the Russian invasion was achieved. They had three explicit goals in invading Georgia. The first was to depose the Georgian Government, end Georgian democracy and physically destroy Georgia’s leadership. Those are not my words or a conspiracy theory. That is what they themselves overtly stated in every open and closed international forum. The second goal was to shut off the energy supply for different regions of the world and to monopolize the energy supply in the part of the world where Russia lies. That totally failed. Georgia is developing and its energy corridor is developing. The third goal was to stop the enlargment of NATO and to halt any kind of inclusion of the region into international organizations. Russia also failed at that goal. We often say that after the Russians failed to physically destroy the Georgian leadership, failed to succeed in any of the purposes of their invasion and basically were forced to stay where they are, within occupied territories — in what most of the world and most international organizations call illegally occupied territories, meaning that they will have to withdraw — now they are trying to undermine us because they have a strong sense of unfinished business. It is not just the fate of a small country of less than 5 million people that is being played out in this scenario. The fate of the whole post-Soviet space is being played out, affecting 400 to 500 million people. Because Russia failed to destroy Georgian democracy in 2008, countries in Central Asia such as Ukraine and Belarus, people in the Republic of Moldova and Eastern Europe, all think that freedom is the right choice after all and that even the smallest free country cannot be undermined and destroyed if it stands strong and united and if the international community is there to help. That sets a very bad example from the Russian point of view. On the other hand, because of Georgia’s reforms and because of our openness to the great nation of Russia, we introduced visa-free travel for tourists from Russia. One million tourists will travel to Georgia from Russia this year and they will take back 1 million stories of successful development, of a country with new hospitals, with new cities, with sharply reduced poverty — a country moving towards universal health coverage and that has enjoyed double-digit growth, and is this year enjoying 8 per cent growth. It is a country that, even without oil and gas, is looking much better than most of the Russian region. Indeed, Russia’s then- President Medvedev had to acknowledge twice in one week, in an open forum of journalists and his own parliament, that Georgian reforms were so successful that Russia had no choice but to study and copy them, even if they hate the Georgian leadership. That is the ideological issue. That is why they want us out. That is why they want Georgia off the map. It is because if Georgia survives and if Georgia continues, it sets a bad example for all the others, including the Russian people themselves, from the point of view of the present Russian Government. The prison scandal we had recently involved things that happen almost every day in Russia, and are reported on social media in Russia as frequently, and no one there gives a damn about it. In the first case that came up in Georgia, two ministers and scores of others were arrested, which also sets a bad example in the eyes of people who want to suppress freedom. That is why it is so important that Georgian democracy is back and safe. It means that the whole post-Soviet space, our whole part of the world, will move in the right direction. I call on the world to pay attention and send the right signals. I make the call knowing what our responsibilities are. In the face of the threats confronting us, our commitment to democracy and transparency is more important than ever. We remember the words of the American founding father who said that whoever sacrifices his freedom for security deserves neither. That is not just our response; it is the best response. Our transformation and the hostility it has generated among those who feel threatened by freedom have continued to make Georgia a test case for the entire region. What is at stake in Georgia today is the very idea that democracy can thrive in our part of the world. Our common legacy from the dark time of the Soviet Union is now almost gone from Georgia. Organized crime — and Georgia was a hotbed of organized crime — is now almost gone from Georgia. Most of that legacy has migrated to other countries, including Russia. Corruption, coercion, intimidation, oppression, cynicism and despair: we condemn that way of life, that way of Government and of being governed. No, we can, we should and we will overcome that legacy. We are doing it in Georgia and it can be done everywhere else. Will we face strong opposition? Yes. And we are well placed to say that, since our country is regularly threatened with destruction and annihilation, for the very reason that we choose another path — the path of freedom, the path of transparency and accountability, the path of meritocracy and an open society — we know how difficult it is to overcome those forces. But we know we can. Sovietism and post-Sovietism is not a fate. Organized crime and violence is not a fate. Slavery is not a fate. Limited sovereignty as Brezhnev once defined it and Putin reshaped it is not a fate. Every country represented here is a free nation. We are all free peoples, made up of free individuals, and our future depends on us, on what we want and what we do. There is nothing easy about saying this, and I do not say it lightly. The Georgian people know the price of freedom and still they think their freedom is worth it, because with freedom comes development and happiness, true stability and true peace. Our region will one day become a zone where free people interact peacefully, where respect will replace contempt. All the peoples of Central Asia and Eastern Europe, Ukraine, the Republic of Moldova and Russia, the South Caucasus and North Caucasus, should hold hands together and shout down the voices of the past. Powerful voices continue to send the message that democracy, transparency and accountability are not possible. They say that freedom, meritocracy and respect for human rights are fundamentally alien. Georgia has proven them wrong. Our survival story has proven them wrong, just as many here today have in the past. As we have been learning from many people in the Hall, our efforts have shown that corruption, intolerance, intimidation, fear and violence are neither cultural nor inevitable. Advanced democracy is a sign of a mature society. It is not easy to govern. Dissent, pluralism and vibrant debate, which are threats to others, are strengths to us. Our view is clear. One cannot gain enduring stability at the expense of liberty, and one cannot ensure lasting prosperity by sacrificing individual rights. Those short cuts never succeed in the long run. In every culture, in every society, in every corner of the world, people will ultimately demand the right to choose their own future. Only Governments that meet that demand will achieve true stability. The fundamental contract is not always without difficulties. Governments that commit themselves to the process must be prepared for turbulence and disagreement. What is difficult for elected leaders is often beneficial for citizens; what is challenging for ruling parties is often necessary for the State. In pursuing the goals of freedom and accountability, our common efforts must be governed by the rule of law and a commitment to respect these fundamental principles. Violence and intimidation can never be legitimized, and a minority can never forcibly impose its views on the will of the majority. Guns, money, threats, hatred, blackmail and fear cannot be allowed to hijack the process. At the same time, we recognize the potential threat of a majority trampling the rights and liberties of a minority. We respond to that threat by protecting the right to dissent, we respond by promoting pluralism, we respond by allowing every voice to be heard. And we respond by the law. I can testify to how difficult the process is, but I can also state unequivocally that no lasting alternative exists. I want finally to share with the Assembly my hope and my trust. A few days from now, Georgians from all social, religious and ethnic backgrounds will collectively decide their future in an unoccupied part of our territory. They will express diverse opinions and wishes, and a new future for our nation will emerge. Openness will be further enshrined. Transparency will be strengthened, and public accountability confirmed. The main thing that will be confirmed is that Georgia will not go back. It will not be dragged back under any pressure, under any dirty money from the North, under any threat of military exercise or direct military invasion or mass-scale disturbances or the emergence of some kind of militias emerge, as some have threatened. It is not going to work. According to the European Union, we are the safest country and the least corrupt country in Europe with strong Government institutions that cannot be bribed and cannot be undermined. By constantly renewing the social contract, which is at the heart of every democratic nation, we will ensure that democratic principles and practices are with us for good. I trust the Georgian people. I trust the international community and I trust that they will not allow others to destroy the will of my people or destroy my small nation’s choice. I stated earlier that democracy is a difficult, sometimes noisy system. It presents challenges to those in and outside Government, and it forces leaders to place their trust in society. Personally, I see no credible alternative, and I saw no better reason to take risks. Fear is the paramount weapon of autocrats, while trust is a definition of democrats. Let us all trust our citizens, even if autocratic forces much bigger than us are threatening us. The best defence for my country is openness, democracy, transparency and the work of institutions against all of those forces, against all the international mafias and against social and international pressures that contravene international law. Let us defend the institutions that support, strengthen and preserve our choice to be open and free. ﻿At the outset, I would like to congratulate my dear friend His Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as the President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I believe that, with his able leadership, he will contribute greatly to the work of the Assembly. I want to be frank and speak the language of the peoples we all represent. Every year, we all gather here at the United Nations, the embodiment of the human quest for peace, security and international order. We exchange views on the daunting challenges that we all face and express our strong commitment to resolving them. On many matters, we speak as one, yet we often fail to act in unity. We express our commitment to the settlement of frozen conflicts, but there is still no prospect for a solution to many such conflicts. For instance, we have time and again declared our support for a two-State solution to the question of Palestine and adopted numerous resolutions to that end. However, we still hope that, one day soon, Palestine will be represented as an equal member in the Assembly. We also underline the need for a solution to the Nagorno Karabakh issue in accordance with the territorial integrity of Azerbaijan. Yet there has not been a single step towards the resolution of that problem for the past two decades. In addition, the problem of Cyprus has remained unresolved for almost half a century. Nearly a decade has passed since the United Nations settlement plan of 2004, which the entire international community endorsed. However, Turkish Cypriots continue to face isolation and an unlawful and unjust embargo as if it were a token of appreciation for their support for the United Nations-led settlement. My point speaks for itself. We cannot resolve current problems, and each year we find ourselves besieged by ever-increasing new ones. Terrorists continue to strike and take the lives of innocent people, yet we still have no effective international response to, or adequate solidarity against, the scourge of terrorism. Today, some States employ methods of State violence and brutal oppression with impunity, which costs the lives of innocent citizens whom they are obliged to protect. We firmly believe that human life is sacred and that life is the foremost blessing for any human being, whoever and wherever they are. However, millions of people live in poverty and under oppression. They are deprived of their fundamental rights and freedoms, suffering under extreme conditions that no human being should ever have to live under. To soothe our collective conscience, we constantly reiterate our pledges to help alleviate the misery of those people. However, we fall short of matching our words with deeds. We live in perpetual hope. After all, as human beings, we are the children of hope. For us, every dawn, every sunrise and every spring signifies a new beginning of hope. We yearn for peace and idealize peace. It is the essence of our nature. Humankind expects from us, the leaders of nations, to move humankind towards real peace. However, we lag far behind in meeting the expectations of our nations and of humankind. If it is not for us to provide relief and give hope to a child living in a refugee camp or in open prisons in certain parts of the world, then what is the chance that we will cultivate real peace? When a child opens his eyes to a world of extreme poverty and oppression in a refugee camp or in the streets of his neighbourhood, or when a parent leaves behind a destroyed house, orphans and widows, how can we prevent them from succumbing to despair and pessimism? If we cannot regard the rights of a person in Syria, Palestine, Somalia, Afghanistan, the Rakhine region or other places as equal to our own, how can we talk about freedom and justice? If fundamental human rights are sacrificed for the sake of power politics and become negotiable in talks among a few nations in the Security Council, how are we to achieve universal human rights and security? If we remain incapable of taking action to preserve the universal principles that the forefathers of the United Nations set out when forming this body, how can we demonstrate to people that the f lag of the United Nations represents hope for, and a safeguard of, their destiny? If the use of force is accepted as unlimited; if indiscriminate attacks and collective punishment become weapons in the hands of cruel regimes against their own citizens, as we are currently witnessing every day, day and night, in Syria; if we fail to hear and rise to join the cry of the innocent masses, wherever they are; and if we cannot force such brutal regimes to submit to justice and the rule of law, how are we to maintain international peace and security? A peaceful world, as the founders of the United Nations envisioned, cannot be established if we remain ineffective in our work against those challenges. Let us not forget: our inability to act becomes a tool in the hands of despots and destructive regimes to demolish cities, towns and villages, massacre their own citizens and make a mockery of the civilized world and the United Nations. The failure to address humanitarian crises shakes our collective conscience. Worse, however, inaction eventually emboldens oppressors and aggressive regimes and creates evil alliances that perpetuate and commit crimes against humanity. Let us make no mistake: mercy shown to an oppressor is the most merciless act towards people under oppression. If not now, when are we supposed to act in unity? If not the United Nations, who is to lead? If not us, then who will shoulder the responsibility to protect innocent civilians? Let us now imagine that we are in the shoes of those people. How can we even dream about a real future? We need a strong, efficient and credible United Nations. To that end, we must first tackle the long- outstanding issue of reforming the United Nations to make it fit for its purpose. The working methods and structures of the United Nations are not commensurate with the current realities of the world. The Security Council, with its primary responsibility to maintain international peace and security, should become more representative, functional and effective. It has to respond to the real needs of the world. That is the only way that it will remain relevant to the enormous challenges that we all face in the twenty-first century. I can freely appeal to the Assembly’s conscience, as Turkey has a solid record — be it in Afghanistan, Somalia, Syria, Yemen, Libya or Bosnia and Herzegovina or when it comes to cooperation with least developed countries, the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations and the Mediation for Peace initiative, among other examples. Allow me now to brief ly touch upon some specific issues that continue to pose formidable challenges for the international community. Let me start by underlining that the recent attacks against Islam and the Prophet Muhammad — peace be upon him — and Islam are outright provocations. They aim to pit nations and peoples against each other. We deplore in the strongest terms the malicious attempts to denigrate the most sacred values of Islam or any other faith. We condemn any type of incitement to hatred and religious discrimination against Muslims and people of other faiths. Unfortunately, Islamophobia has become a new form of racism. It can no longer be tolerated under the guise of freedom of expression. Freedom does not mean anarchy. It means responsibility. The purpose of Islamophobia is clear and simple. It aims to create an abstract and imaginary enemy out of the millions of peace-loving Muslims all over the world. Regretfully, accepting generalities, stereotypes and prejudice as truth, many people unknowingly become Islamophobic. However, no agenda, no provocation, no attack and no incitement to hatred can darken the bright face of Islam. At the same time, we condemn all the provocations and violence that have led to the loss of lives in many countries, including the death of the United States Ambassador in Libya. I express our sincere condolences for all who have lost their lives. Violence against innocent people cannot be justified under any pretext. Any such activity, no matter whom it is carried out by or for what purpose, is a betrayal against the soul, spirit and letter of Islam. However, the recent events are testament to a more serious problem that should concern not just Muslims, but the adherents of all faiths and religions. The alarming increase in the number of acts that defame religions, and thereby people who adhere to them, now have serious implications for international peace and security. The time has therefore come to establish the denigration of any religion and its followers as a hate crime. We have to take swift measures. We cannot, and we shall not, leave our future vulnerable to the reckless provocations of all sorts of extremists. We need to craft a universal policy and a legal instrument that, while protecting free expression, also ensure respect for religion and prevent intentional insults against anyone’s faith. The solution should not be arbitrary. It has to focus on those who defame a faith with the intention of inciting discrimination, hostility or violence. We have to find a balance between protecting the rights of an individual or group to free expression and protecting the right of another individual or group not to become the target of hatred or of emotional, incited or psychological violence. Therefore, from this rostrum, I would like to make a strong appeal to the members of the international community to set up all the necessary instruments to combat all hate crimes, including the denigration of religions and defamation of their followers. The United Nations must lead that effort and should provide the international legal framework to that end. We are resolved to actively pursue this objective and to work diligently with like-minded nations and international organizations to ensure that we take a united and effective stance against Islamophobia and all forms of hate. Moreover, we are well aware of the need to ensure the safety, security and protection of diplomats. In the past four decade, the Turkish nation has lost 33 diplomats to terrorist acts by the Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia. We encourage the United Nations to focus on a new understanding of, and international instrument for, the protection of diplomats. As a mockery of the values we all share, the people of Syria have continued to suffer under the brutality and tyranny of the regime in Damascus for the past 18 months. The numbers speak volumes. More than 30,000 people have been killed so far, approximately 300,000 Syrian refugees have f led to neighboring countries, including Turkey, and more than 1 million people are internally displaced. Unfortunately, this humanitarian tragedy has become just a statistic for many. What has the international community done to stop this carnage? Literally nothing. We have yet to see a single effective action to save innocent lives. It is a great disgrace to witness that today, after 20 years, the ghosts of Srebrenica and Halabja continue to haunt us, this time in the cities of Syria. One can argue about the reasons for the failure of the Security Council to stop the violence of the Syrian regime. However, there can be no legitimate explanation for the failure of the Security Council to reflect the collective conscience of the international community. It has to uphold its primary responsibility to maintain international peace and security. It is the inability of the Council to act that continues to encourage the Syrian regime to kill ever more people. If the Security Council does not follow the conscience of the international community, as reflected by the resolutions adopted by a more than two-thirds majority of the General Assembly, who will respond to the cries of the Syrian people? For how long will we, the international community, allow this humanitarian tragedy to continue? The responsibility to protect the people of Syria is our fundamental duty. No political differences, no balance of power politics and no geopolitical considerations should prevail over our conscience and our concern for the destiny of the Syrian people. More important, the situation in Syria has evolved into a real threat to regional peace and security. The Syrian regime deploys every possible instrument to turn the legitimate struggle of the Syrian people into a sectarian war, which will engulf the entire region in flames. Unfortunately, the longer the regime is allowed to wage its campaign of violence, the harder it will be to prevent such a dreadful eventuality. It is high time that the Security Council take action, as the Assembly called for. There has to be a solution to ensure the immediate safety and security of the Syrian people. There has to be a solution for a sound transition process that paves the way for the creation of a new and democratic Syria. The regime in power has to step down and allow an interim Government to lead the country to free and fair elections. The Syrian people need our united support and solidarity in their struggle for their future and their right to a legitimate and representative Government. The Turkish nation stands by its brethren, the Syrian people, in their legitimate struggle. We now care for 90,000 displaced Syrian refugees in Turkish homes. Let me underline once again that, since the beginning of the conflict, we have never hesitated, nor will we ever, hesitate to be at the side of our Syrian brothers and sisters in their most difficult hour. Another tragedy that has long been taking place before our eyes in the Middle East is that of Palestine. This is the fourth General Assembly session where we continue to stress the unacceptability and unsustainability of the situation in Gaza. However, to date, there has been no progress. As a result, in the fourth year of the unlawful blockade by Israel, the people in Gaza, children in particular, continue to live in despair, desolation and fear. Many decisions and resolutions have been adopted at the United Nations calling for the lifting of that unlawful blockade. However, Israel persists in its illegal policy to this day, thereby causing misery and anguish in Gaza. In fact, we see the same attitude by Israel in all of the occupied Palestinian territories. Despite insistent calls by the international community, it carries on with its illegal settlements in Palestine, and thus deliberately undermines the prospects of a peaceful two-State solution. Indeed, when President Mahmoud Abbas spoke in the Assembly last year (see A/66/PV. 19) and declared the right of Palestine to be recognized as an independent State, I remember seeing the whole Assembly in a standing ovation. But as of this day we have yet to see the State of Palestine as an equal member of the General Assembly, with the f lag of the independent Palestine f lying. How can we convince the Palestinian people that the international community is serious about a two-State solution when no United Nations resolutions have helped their cause for an independent State of Palestine? However, we will one day see the f lag of Palestine in the Hall. Turkey will certainly support the Palestinian people in their quest for statehood, dignity and peace. While the whole world’s attention is rightly focused on the Middle East, we should not forget that there are serious human tragedies taking place elsewhere as well. We do not have the luxury to turn a blind eye to any human suffering. As I personally witnessed during my visit in June, the people of the Rakhine region, especially the Rohingya Muslims, are in desperate need of humanitarian assistance. The democratization process under way in Myanmar provides us with a window of opportunity, as the Government has repeatedly stressed its readiness to cooperate with the international community to ease the suffering of those people. Before concluding my remarks, I wish to touch upon yet another long-standing conflict that also requires immediate practical steps towards a fair and lasting solution. I am referring to the problem of Cyprus. Unfortunately, the new round of talks started in 2008 are at a stalemate, with no end in sight, due to Greek Cypriots’ intransigence and lack of political will. Today, despite half a century’s experience and a body of United Nations work, there is still not a clear prospect for a solution. The Turkish Cypriots have so far proven their firm commitment to a negotiated solution, but remain subject to an inhumane and unlawful embargo. That is simply unfair. They should not be forced to play this game for an indefinite period without a clear perspective and timeline for a solution. The international community must not remain indifferent to what is happening in Cyprus, either. After all, the continuation of the problem creates additional risks for the stability of the region. Moreover, the unilateral exploration of oil and natural gas by the Greek Cypriots around the island further intensifies those risks. Under those circumstances, the United Nations must do more than what it is currently doing. The Security Council in particular has to facilitate a solution rather than merely sustaining the status quo. A change of mentality is essential. There should be a distinction between those who seek and aspire for a solution and those who reject it. It is no longer enough to pay lip service to a bi-zonal, bi-communal federation. It is time to act before it is too late. In conclusion, I wish to go back to what I said at the beginning of my remarks. We are at the end of the opening of yet another session of the General Assembly. We have all expressed our desire for and commitment to a more peaceful and prosperous world. However, positive change can only be realized if our actions match our words and promises. Every attempt to achieve our objective for real peace, every moment we spend to uphold rightness and justice and every effort we make for freedoms and human rights will provide greater comfort for those who struggle to have a say in their destiny. A while ago, I asked if not now, when? This year, let us make a difference and let us hope that we will not repeat the same question next September in the Assembly.﻿I wish to congratulate Mr. Jeremić on his election as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I am confident that with his ability and experience he will successfully fulfil that lofty mission. I also wish to thank Mr. Al-Nasser for his positive contribution as President at the last session. The world is undergoing major and profound changes. The trends towards multipolarity, economic globalization and the application of information technology are gaining momentum. Countries have never been as interconnected and interdependent as they are today. Emerging markets and developing countries have never had such strong influence, and cross- civilizational dialogue and exchanges are flourishing as never before. To promote peace, development and cooperation has become the shared aspiration of people across the world and the common pursuit of the international community. On the other hand, the world is still far from being peaceful. The underlying impact of the international financial crisis and the European debt crisis remains strong. Destabilizing factors and uncertainties affecting global growth have increased. Regional turbulence persists, hotspot issues keep emerging and traditional and non-traditional security issues have become intertwined. The international security environment is highly complex. Facing both unprecedented opportunities and challenges, we must not allow the outdated Cold War mentality and zero-sum game theory to stand in our way. We should act like passengers who stick together in a boat when crossing a torrential river and seek win-win progress through cooperation. That is the only option for countries around the world. To ensure one’s own security, a country should respect and accommodate the security of other nations. To achieve one’s own development, a country should actively promote common development. In pursuing one’s own interests, a country should take into account the interests of other nations. Only by promoting common security and development for all its members can the international community effectively address complex and multiple security threats and global challenges, resolve increasingly serious difficulties facing development and ensure durable peace and sustainable development in the world. With that in mind, China believes that it is important to do the following. We should promote equality and democracy in international relations. Mutual respect and equality are basic norms governing international relations. All countries, large or small, strong or weak, rich or poor, are equal members of the international community. Respect for each other’s sovereignty, core interests and choice of social system and development path is a fundamental principle guiding State-to-State relations. We should resolutely promote greater democracy in international relations. A country should deal with its internal affairs itself. Issues involving the interests of various countries should be handled by those countries through consultation. We should remain true to multilateralism and uphold the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the central role of the United Nations in international affairs. China strives to strengthen political mutual trust and to address problems and differences with other countries through dialogue and exchanges. China does not interfere in the internal affairs of other countries or impose its will on others. China does not allow outside forces to interfere in its internal affairs. We should seek win-win progress through cooperation on development. As economic globalization deepens, all countries have a high stake in each other’s success. We should therefore enhance cooperation and develop common interests to achieve win-win progress with benefits for all. We should tap the potential for cooperation in all countries, increase and develop cooperation, improve cooperation mechanisms and work together to make economic globalization balanced, inclusive and beneficial to all. We should accelerate the development of developing countries and narrow the North-South gap. We should enhance global development cooperation to ensure that the benefits of development reach everyone. Since the start of the international financial crisis, while maintaining its own robust growth, China has significantly increased contributions to international financial institutions, extended a helping hand to other developing countries and bought more bonds from certain developed countries. That has helped to stabilize the international economic and financial situation and to maintain the economic and social development of the relevant countries. We should ensure fairness and effectiveness in conducting global governance. Facing increasing global challenges, the international community should strengthen coordination and cooperation, establish a fair, equitable, flexible and effective system of global governance, properly address the various global issues and promote the common well-being of humanity. China supports the United Nations in enhancing its authority, efficiency and ability to address new threats and challenges through the required proper reform. It is important to advance the building of a global system of economic governance with a focus on reforming the international financial system, rapidly implement the quota and governance reform plans of the International Monetary Fund and other financial institutions, and increase the representation and voice of emerging markets and developing countries. We should fully implement the outcome and consensus of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (resolution 66/288, annex), further develop international cooperation on sustainable development and discuss the establishment of a post-2015 international development agenda based on actively implementing the Millennium Development Goals. We should launch a process of open, transparent and democratic intergovernmental consultation, with development and poverty reduction as the core objectives. We should also fully leverage the role of civil society and the private sector in that task. Together with all other parties, China is ready to actively participate in reforming the international system and in global governance and to jointly face the various global challenges. We should pursue common progress by embracing the diversity of civilizations. According to ancient Chinese philosophy, the world will be a great place when all things thrive without harming each another and when various efforts are pursued in parallel without their clashing. We should encourage exchanges and mutual learning among different civilizations and social systems, draw on each other’s strength through competition and comparison and make progress by seeking common ground, while maintaining our differences. We should respect the diversity of the world and the right of all countries to independently choose their development path. China encourages dialogue and exchanges among civilizations. We should replace confrontation with dialogue and bridge differences with inclusiveness in order to make the world more harmonious and to ensure common progress for humanity. We should seek common security amid growing interdependence. No country is immune to the complex and multiple security threats and challenges in the world. We should foster a new thinking on security that is characterized by mutual trust and benefit, equality and coordination. We should adopt a holistic approach to address both the symptoms and the root causes of the various security challenges and should build a peaceful and stable international and regional security environment. The United Nations should fully play its role in maintaining international peace and security and in establishing a fair and effective mechanism for common security. We must resolve disputes through dialogue and negotiation and oppose the wilful use or threat of force. We must oppose all forms of terrorism, separatism and extremism. West Asia and North Africa are undergoing profound changes. China respects and supports efforts by countries in those regions to independently deal with their internal affairs. We respect the aspirations and calls of people in those areas for change and development. The unique features of those regions in terms of religion, civilization, history and ethnicity must be respected. We hope that the relevant parties will settle differences through inclusive and constructive political dialogue and that they will resolve problems peacefully. Safeguarding peace and stability in those areas, upholding the fundamental and long-term interests of Arab countries and ensuring the growth of friendly China-Arab relations will remain a central goal of China’s policy towards such regions. We will continue to tirelessly strive, together with countries in those areas, to promote peace and development in line with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. China is deeply concerned about the stalled Palestinian-Israeli peace talks and the economic and humanitarian difficulties facing the Palestinian people. The turbulence in the region should not divert international attention from the Palestinian issue. China supports the Palestinian people in establishing, on the basis of the 1967 border, an independent Palestinian State that enjoys full sovereignty, with East Jerusalem as its capital. China supports Palestine’s membership of the United Nations and other international organizations. China urges both Palestine and Israel to take concrete measures to remove obstacles and to work for the early resumption and substantive progress of the peace talks. China is deeply concerned about the ongoing tension and worsening humanitarian situation in Syria. We call on all relevant parties in Syria to put an immediate end to the fighting and violence, to implement the relevant Security Council resolutions, Mr. Kofi Annan’s six-point plan and the communiqué of the foreign ministers’ meeting of the Action Group for Syria (A/66/865, annex), and to launch an inclusive political dialogue and a Syrian-led political transition as soon as possible. China is open to any political plan that is acceptable to all parties in Syria. The relevant parties of the international community should play a positive and constructive role in that regard, credibly support Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States, in conducting impartial mediation, and strive to set in motion and move forward the process of political transition in Syria. The Iranian nuclear issue has reached a new, critical stage. The relevant parties should remain committed to a diplomatic solution and begin a new round of dialogue as soon as possible. In the spirit of respecting each other’s concerns, we should act with flexibility and pragmatism to expand common ground and overcome differences, seek early progress in dialogue and negotiation and, over time, achieve a comprehensive, long-term and appropriate solution to the issue. China has always supported efforts to uphold the international nuclear non-proliferation regime and will continue to work with the parties concerned and play a constructive role in seeking a peaceful solution to the Iranian nuclear issue through dialogue and negotiation. The Asia-Pacific region has maintained general stability and rapid growth for many years, thereby making important contributions to global stability and prosperity. Given the growing threat of shrinkage in the global economy and increasing volatility in the international situation, maintaining peace, stability and sound growth in the Asia-Pacific region is crucial to ensuring the well-being of its people and meets the broader interests of the international community. We should fully respect the reality of a diverse and interdependent Asia-Pacific region, and continue to follow the approach of regional cooperation — building consensus, making incremental progress and accommodating each other’s comfort levels — that has proved effective over the years. We should promote regional development with greater determination, advance regional cooperation with increased resources, and handle differences with longer-term interests in mind so as to uphold the peace, stability and prosperity of the Asia-Pacific region. As an important participant in building the international system, China is committed to sharing development opportunities with other countries and to working with them to overcome various challenges and realize security and development for all. China will stay the course of peaceful development. We seek a peaceful international environment in which China can promote its own development. By so doing, China will contribute to global peace and development. China is firm in upholding its core interests. At the same time, it respects the legitimate right of other countries to protect their interests. We seek to expand common interests with other parties for the sake of the common good. China has contributed a total of some 21,000 personnel to United Nations peacekeeping missions and taken an active part in international cooperation on counter-terrorism, anti-piracy and non-proliferation efforts. In our efforts to resolve major international and regional hotspot issues, we have urged the parties concerned to seek peaceful solutions through negotiation and thereby played an important and constructive role in easing tensions and achieving the political resolution of those issues. China has made remarkable progress in pursuing peaceful development and will continue to follow that path in the years to come. China will enhance friendly relations and cooperation with all other countries on the basis of the five principles of peaceful coexistence and strive to promote a new type of relationship among major countries based on mutual respect and win-win cooperation. Following a policy of building good relationships and partnerships with neighbouring countries, China has actively expanded exchanges with its neighbours. China has contributed to over 50 per cent of Asia’s growth for many consecutive years. We have endeavoured to build mechanisms of mutual trust and political cooperation with other Asian countries and appropriately to address differences and frictions among relevant countries. On the basis of firmly upholding China’s sovereignty, security and territorial integrity, we have worked with our neighbours to maintain sound relations and overall stability in the region. China treats other developing countries as good friends and good partners; we therefore support each other and seek common development on the basis of equality. By the end of 2011, the Chinese Government had built over 2,200 projects that are important to the local economies and people’s lives in the countries concerned. We have cancelled the debts owed to China by 50 heavily indebted poor and least-developed countries. We have trained over 60,000 personnel in various sectors for 173 developing countries and 13 regional and international organizations. All of that has contributed to the economic and social development of other developing countries. China has taken an active part in reforming the international system and global governance, and assumed its due share of international responsibilities and obligations as its capabilities permit. We are working to build a fair, equitable and non-discriminatory global trading system and a more equal and balanced new global partnership for development. We support a greater role for the Group of Twenty as the premier forum for international economic cooperation, as well as the efforts of emerging markets represented by the BRICS group — Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa — aimed at exploring a new model of global cooperation. The global economy is at a critical stage, and achieving full recovery and sustained growth will be a long and difficult task. Last year, despite a challenging economic environment both at home and abroad, China registered a gross domestic product (GDP) growth rate of 9.3 per cent, and made good progress in adjusting its economic structure and improving people’s lives. Since the beginning of the year, in order to address some new problems in economic performance, the Chinese Government has stepped up anticipatory fine-tuning of the economy and introduced a series of targeted policy measures. That has boosted market confidence and ensured steady growth. China’s GDP grew by 7.8 per cent in the first half of the year, and the country has enjoyed sound economic and social development. China is still in an important period of strategic opportunities for development. Industrialization, urbanization, the application of information technology and agricultural modernization will continue to unlock our great potential for development. We have the confidence, means and ability to maintain steady and robust growth and achieve long-term, sound and sustainable development. During its twelfth five-year plan for the period 2011-2015, China’s domestic market will become one of the largest in the world. Its total imports are expected to exceed $10 trillion, and direct outbound investment is expected to exceed $500 billion. That will create enormous business and job opportunities for the world and provide good opportunities for other countries’ development. The Diaoyu Islands have been an integral part of China’s territory since ancient times. China has indisputable historical and legal evidence in that regard. Japan seized the islands in 1895 at the end of the Sino-Japanese War and forced the Chinese Government of the time to sign an unequal treaty to cede the islands and other Chinese territories to Japan. After the Second World War, the Diaoyu Islands and other Chinese territories occupied by Japan were returned to China in accordance with the Cairo Declaration, the Potsdam Agreement and other international documents. By taking such unilateral actions as the so-called island purchase, the Japanese Government has grossly violated China’s sovereignty. This is an outright denial of the outcomes of the victorious anti-fascist World War and poses a grave challenge to the post-war international order and the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. The moves made by Japan are totally illegal and invalid. They can in no way change the historical fact that Japan stole the Diaoyu Islands from China and that China has territorial sovereignty over them. The Chinese Government is firm in upholding China’s territorial sovereignty. China strongly urges Japan to immediately stop all activities violating China’s territorial sovereignty, take concrete action to correct its mistakes and return to the path of resolving the dispute through negotiation. The Communist Party of China will soon hold its eighteenth National Congress. We are confident that the important meeting will lead China’s reform, opening-up and modernization drive to a new stage. The facts have shown and will continue to prove that China’s development is peaceful, open, cooperative and win-win in nature. We will work with the international community to follow the trend of history and the call of the times and build a harmonious world of enduring peace and shared prosperity.﻿I would first like to extend hearty congratulations to the President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, Mr. Jeremić, to whom I wish the greatest success in his work. Just one year ago, I ended my statement (see A/66/PV.27) by reasserting the notion of commitment as a fundamental value and linchpin of our political action, understood as a deep belief in the values of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law; as the assumption of individual responsibilities for a common project; and ultimately as a desire for dialogue and understanding. It is in the pursuit of that commitment and that balance — what we might call the right balance — that the difficulty of Government resides. That is the case at home, in every one of our States, and also in our shared home of the United Nations. A year ago in this Assembly, we echoed a phrase of the then French President, who stated: “Let us choose the path of compromise, which is neither renunciation nor repudiation, but which allows us to move forward, step by step” (A/66/PV.11, p. 23). Indeed, on the path of compromise and the right balance, we cannot and must not abandon the defence of human rights, the rule of law and the most essential democratic values such as freedom of expression. We cannot and should not deny respect to others. However, establishing a fair balance does not mean conducting a balancing act. Indeed, that balance must be based on strong principles. There can be no excuse for violence, intolerance or impunity. President Obama was right when he mentioned in this Hall that the recent attacks on diplomatic missions were not solely an attack on the United States, but also an assault on the foundations of the United Nations itself. There can be no excuse or impunity for such acts. We are all Chris Stevens. But what defines us is not how we fall but how we rise again. We will stand by all Chris Stevens as they rise to defend the ideals of the United Nations. Allow me today to echo the words of the new President of the French Republic, François Hollande, Co-Prince of Andorra, who stated before this Assembly that “The mission of the United Nations is to tackle these challenges and to find strong and just responses to them together.” (A/67/PV.6, p. 43) For over 65 years, the United Nations has been a reference for peace, justice and respect for human rights. Remarkable progress has indeed been observed in recent years. It is no less true, however, that the countries represented here cannot afford the luxury of falling into complacency. The demand for just and strong responses is very real. The change of regime in Libya and the ongoing grievous conflict in Syria have presented the international community with the awkward dilemma of having to find a fair balance between resolving conflicts peacefully and the rule of law — in short, between peace and justice. It would appear that, in order to attain a peaceful solution to a conflict or to end hostilities, justice must be sacrificed while those who have violated human rights go unpunished; or that, due to inf lexible application of international law, conflicts will continue forever. A fair balance must not allow either those who violate human rights to go unpunished, or conflicts to continue endlessly. With regard to Syria, it is time to support open societies and political transitions that can guarantee a framework for democratic development. I wish to praise the commitment of the Secretary-General and Joint Special Representative Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi to finding a solution to the conflict in Syria. The Secretary-General has said that people want progress and solutions today. They want ideas, leadership and concrete hope for the future. The Secretary-General’s words accurately reflect what the world expects from all Member States. We also need to maintain perspective, because if complacency is dangerous, so too are harsh criticism and pessimism. While the working methods of the United Nations system are far from optimal, we should not forget that the reality of today seemed an unattainable dream a century ago. We should move on from talk of dreams to talk of ambition. We should move on from dreaming about change to exerting the ambition to change. We should move on from “I have a dream”, as stated by Martin Luther King, Jr., to speaking about the ambition that we all share. In his statement at the opening of the general debate (see A/67/PV.6), Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon rightly mentioned raising our levels of ambition. The step from dream to ambition needs perspective; dreaming requires knowing only how we would like things to be, but having and realizing ambition requires us to know how far we are prepared to go, while bearing very much in mind the path travelled and everything to be experienced along the way. In that respect the United Nations and its system allow us to face the future with cautious optimism, as the world has been better and more just with the presence of the United Nations than without it. However, when we look at its evolution, we realize that something is not quite right, as the evolution process has been fraught with limitations, shortcomings and obstacles that the international community must address in its efforts to resolve conflicts peacefully and in accordance with the law. The Secretary-General rightly emphasized his new Education First initiative, which encourages democratic values, human rights and the rule of law. And those values can guarantee equal opportunity and social cohesion. During its forthcoming presidency of the Council of Europe, Andorra will prioritize education as a tool for encouraging democratic values, respect for human rights and the rule of law. Andorra is particularly sensitive to education, not only in the sphere of international cooperation, but also domestically, as it is aware that its unique, multicultural and multilingual educational approach, featuring three public systems — Andorran, French and Spanish — in a small society with its own identity, has not been a problem, but rather an asset and an essential element of social cohesion. We see that commitment to multiculturalism and multilingualism within the francophone community. The commitment to openness and exchange among individuals is good and is far from self-absorption in one’s own language or culture. Now is not the time for self-absorption but rather for openness; it is time for ambition and not protectionism. The work of the francophone community is deeply aligned with our values, and we will convene in Africa at the forthcoming Summit of the Francophonie to defend the spirit of openness to democratic values and human rights. That commitment to multiculturalism also belies the strong bonds we feel with our Latin American friends. Our involvement within the General Assembly in the preparatory work for the forthcoming Cadiz summit, to be hosted by our dear neighbour Spain, should also be viewed through the prism of openness and the defence of democratic values, human rights and the rule of law. The Principality of Andorra today reasserts its commitment to the founding principles of the United Nations: the promotion of peace, liberty, justice, democracy and human rights. Those are not utopian values and principles; quite the contrary, it would be unrealistic and unthinkable to seek to establish stability in the world with any other values. What is important is to come here today to proclaim not that Andorra has one of the oldest and most stable parliaments and political systems on the planet, but that at the end of the thirteenth century its political system was consolidated in a very short period of time and in circumstances that were far from ideal. In a very brief time span, the same system was again able to adapt to modern reality at the end of the twentieth century. In our country, indeed, it was not until 1971 that women were entitled to vote. Yet only 40 years later, in 2011 the people of Andorra elected a Parliament with the second-highest number of female representatives in the world. This is why I spoke earlier of viewing things from a perspective of process and evolution. History shows us that what appeared utopian not long ago has become reality today. We should not assume that things cannot change and cannot get better. The limits that the United Nations seems to have encountered after almost seven decades of existence will be overcome one day, and today’s challenges will be viewed as things of the past. The numerous countries that form the international community have shown how rapidly things can change when there is a will to act. One only has to take a look at the determination with which many of the members of this Assembly have joined forces and coordinated their policies to find solutions to the grave financial and economic crisis that has rocked the world over the last few years. The need for rapid and profound change has also arrived in Andorra. A year ago, we stated in our speech that our country had one of the most closed economies on the planet and that it posed significant barriers to foreign investment, as foreigners had to meet costly requirements to attain full economic rights. Today, only 12 months later, the Andorran economy is 100 per cent open to foreign capital, and every foreign resident is granted full economic rights from the first day of his or her residency. Earlier, I referred to openness in a broad sense, but today economic openness should enable us to rediscover the path of inclusive growth that has defined us, albeit now within an open and diversified economy geared to the pursuit of competitiveness, innovation and general progress. This entire process has been accompanied by an updating of the Andorran model, with an appropriate tax framework and a commitment to transparency towards the international community. The whole process is based on the belief that recovery means not faint-hearted withdrawal, but rather the ambition to open up to the world and a willingness to compete. That conviction is the driving force behind the implementation by the Principality of Andorra of some of the most significant socioeconomic changes in its entire history. Twenty years ago, the United Nations pioneered the promotion of sustainable development. When the international community met in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, at what was called the Earth Summit, the need to consider sustainable growth became manifest and the subject was tackled from a threefold economic, environmental and social perspective. The conclusions of that Rio Summit, to which scant or no attention has been paid, are today so topical that the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held in Rio in June, stressed the very same policies. However, although 20 years ago sustainability might have seemed solely an environmental issue, experience has shown us that public finance, economic growth and our model of social protections must also be sustainable. The challenge of sustainability is now, more than ever, shared and interdisciplinary. Many years ago, the United Nations was created in the belief that maintaining peace and security in the world was unrealistic without advances in human rights, in international law and in democracy. There can be no lasting peace or security without liberty or justice. More recently, we have all learned not only that separating democracy from economic progress makes no sense, but also that it is foolish to believe in unrestrained, unlimited growth at any cost, the consequences of which we are still feeling. A few days ago, at the reception for the diplomatic corps, our Episcopal Co-Prince, Joan Enric Vives Sicilia, noted the dangerous tendency to prioritize having rather than being. We must learn the lessons of recent years, in which the desire to have everything we wanted too often led us to forget to pursue everything we needed. We must build a more sustainable, more interrelated and more co-responsible world in order to lay the foundations for more secure economic growth. A pledge to progress and prosperity also means support for democracy, for security and for peace.﻿First of all, on behalf of my country, I would like to welcome the broad vision and the pertinence of the ideas put forward by the Secretary-General. I come from Belgium, one of the six founding countries of the European Union (EU), a multicultural union of 500 million people who, as President Obama has reminded us, live in peace — something that I wish for the entire world — after experiencing horrifying wars. Belgium provides a unique setting for political decisions and international meetings. Brussels is the capital of Europe and also the seat of NATO headquarters. We are naturally open to the world. I myself come from the city of Mons, which will be the European cultural capital in 2015. In 2014, Belgium will solemnly commemorate the centennial of the start of the sad and painful First World War. We will do so in memory of the young people from more than 50 countries who, on our territory, defended the ideals of peace and freedom. In 2013, Antwerp will host the World Outgames, a gathering of tolerance and diversity, while the city of Liège is a candidate to host the World’s Fair in 2017. All those international events have a single goal: to bring us closer together and to mobilize around universal values. For my country, respect for life and human rights is fundamental. Whether we speak of the rights of the child, of women or of refugees, or of the struggle against all forms of discrimination, a single principle guides my country: the effective equality of all human beings, regardless of status or beliefs. In that light, Belgium will join Slovenia in sponsoring a draft resolution against racial discrimination. I hope members will support it. All heads of State and ministers share an immense collective responsibility to ensure that women become equal to men worldwide at the political, social and economic levels; to ensure that little girls are no longer subjected to circumcision; and that acts of violence against women are systematically fought and eliminated. In my country, women head three ministries: the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Police. Significant efforts have also been made to more effectively combat domestic violence. Our national laws prohibit and punish all forms of discrimination, whether on the basis of gender or that of claimed race, disability or sexual orientation. In my country, both marriage and adoption are open to same-sex couples. Those are grounds for pride in Belgium. With the support of several countries of the European Union, Belgium invites members to take vigorous, concerted action in various realms of social life. I am thinking first and foremost of the decriminalization of sexual orientation and the promotion of the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. In that regard, I welcome the initiative of UNESCO to counter homophobia in schools. For my country, freedom of religion, which is to say the freedom to practise or not practise a religion, is fundamental. Belgium unequivocally condemns Islamophobia. We just as firmly condemn violence, which is unacceptable in all cases. We believe that human beings should be free to think what they wish and be able to express their indignation without ever resorting to violence. Diplomatic missions should be inviolable throughout the world. It is not by oppressing human beings or promoting violence that the fundamental challenges of prosperity, the well-being of citizens and peace will be resolved. Belgium attaches particular importance to strengthening the rule of law throughout the world. The reason for that is simple: in my country we are convinced that the rule of law is necessary for development and prosperity. It contributes to a better world, because the purpose of the rule of law is to enable every human being to live, flourish and love in complete freedom. For that reason, and in the spirit of mutual human respect, we support the principle of the responsibility to protect victims of violence wherever they are. In the same spirit, Belgium responded to the Secretary- General’s call by instituting 17 specific projects. The rule of law and the enforcement of respect for human rights require us to step up the fight against impunity. Belgium will continue its policy of active cooperation with international criminal tribunals. The action of the International Criminal Court will help to usher in an era of responsibility. It is incumbent upon all States to cooperate with the Court. Belgium, together with Slovenia and the Netherlands, calls on all States represented here to improve international cooperation in mutual legal assistance and extradition. As the President of Brazil pointed out (see A/67/PV.6), the effects of the economic crisis and financial speculation are felt by every household. When the balance sheets of banks represent 300 per cent, 400 per cent or 600 per cent of gross domestic product — indeed, even more in some countries — we should not be surprised that there is a direct link between bank management and the economic and budgetary health of sovereign States. In many countries in-depth studies have been carried out and decisions taken, but clearly that is not enough. That is because the financial world operates in line with the rhythm of its own peculiar logic. Here at the United States the phenomenon is better understood than elsewhere. Programme trading dominates financial exchanges. The software reacts a million times faster than human traders, buying and selling thousands of shares every millionth of a second. We must work together here at the international level to establish oversight mechanisms for the financial world, with a view to ensuring that it again assists more in job creation and that it steers clear of risky management practices that compromise the economic and budgetary health of nations. In Belgium we are working on the issue nationally and within the eurozone. But an agreed international approach is becoming indispensable. Beyond such in-depth reforms in the banking and financial sectors, let us also dare to tax financial transactions. It is high time that income derived from that source be used to promote prosperity for our people. The Assembly is committed to the follow-up to the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development. We can never underline enough that we must break with an economic development model that devours natural resources and energy. Belgium supports the Secretary-General’s Sustainable Energy for All initiative. It also stresses the importance of merging within one process the Millennium Development Goals and the sustainable development goals. I would like to turn to some regional issues that my country finds especially disturbing and tragic. In the Great Lakes region, the situation in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the resurgent violence and the Mouvement du 23 Mars rebellion greatly concern the Belgian Government, especially because of their serious impact on local populations. We see images of massacres, rape, forced recruitment, including of children, pillaging, 400,000 internally displaced persons — all of it completely unacceptable. Belgium calls upon the countries of the region to redouble their efforts to put an end to the current rebellion. We also call for a response to the root causes of instability in the Great Lakes region. We commend the Secretary-General’s attention to the region and his initiative in calling a high-level meeting tomorrow on the crisis. Our Foreign Minister will attend, and Belgium stands ready to do what it can to help. The territorial integrity of the Democratic Republic of the Congo must categorically be respected. All external support for the rebels must stop. Let us not delude ourselves. Denying the facts does not make them disappear. The facts on the ground give the lie to all denials. Belgium calls on all countries in the Great Lakes region to pledge to respect the sovereignty of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Belgium also urges the Congolese authorities to institute the necessary reforms in the army and the police to re-establish the rule of law in the whole of its territory, including, obviously, the eastern part. I dearly hope that reason will prevail. Belgium is ready to work to help restore trust among the countries of the region. We furthermore hope that direct relations between the President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the President of Rwanda can be established and that it will speed progress towards a solution. As to Syria, we are all deeply concerned by the deteriorating situation of an impasse on the ground, and a political impasse as well. We are appalled by the posture of a regime that kills its own citizens. Beyond the 30,000 dead there are at least 250,000 refugees in neighbouring countries, and even more internally displaced. How is it that the collective human conscience is not in agreement to stop the massacre? I say respectfully to the members of the Security Council that we cannot knowingly allow such human suffering to go on. Unless we take action we are complicit in crimes against humanity. Belgium has faith in and supports Joint Special Representative Lakhdar Brahimi. Belgium also supports the efforts by Arab countries and hopes that they will be successful. We must all hope for a political solution. One thing is certain. Bashar Al-Assad must leave. The regime has lost all legitimacy. Given the urgency of the situation and the approaching winter, Belgium urges the international community to take concrete steps on the humanitarian front and to come to the aid of the millions of people affected. Humanitarian concerns are our highest priority. The Belgian Government provides financial support for humanitarian aid to the refugees. In that connection, I will allow myself to insist that my country demands earnestly that a solution be found to enable humanitarian organizations to carry out their work, particularly in hospitals, in line with international humanitarian law. I believe that both the Chinese and Russian authorities will be able to join us in those objectives. I have another comment concerning the region; I wish to mention the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Belgium favours the rapid resumption of negotiations aimed at finding a solution based on the coexistence of two States — the State of Israel and a State of Palestine that is independent, democratic, united and viable — living together in peace, security and prosperity. We also wish to state very clearly our opposition to the continuation of colonization. My country believes that multilateralism is the only way to improve conditions of our planet. Belgium is the fifteenth largest contributor to the United Nations. Let us have the courage and strength to agree to free humankind from wars and social injustices, and support its development. I invite all of us to spur our awareness. Let us demonstrate together our capacity to act.﻿It is a distinct honour for me to speak today for the first time as President of the Republic of Guyana in this general debate of the sixty- seventh session of the General Assembly. To the President of the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, I extend my delegation’s sincere congratulations on his election. I also pay tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, who presided over the sixty-sixth session with distinction during a trying period for this body. The Secretary-General deserves commendation for his unstinting service to the Organization and our continued support as the United Nations negotiates the many issues that confront our world. The present international system is characterized by change and crises. A tide of change is evident at all levels, from the local to the global, and it is either being precipitated or accompanied by multiple crises within the global community. In the economic realm, continuing adverse conditions stymie global efforts to achieve internationally agreed-upon development objectives. Recovery from the global financial crisis is at best incipient and sluggish. Several of the major contributors to global output are grappling with unsustainable fiscal balances that hinder their ability to stimulate lasting recovery. The problems in those economies continue to place a drag on global growth. Compounding those difficulties is the slowdown in output in major emerging economies. Naturally, those events have had serious negative impacts on developing countries. Although more resilient than in earlier times, developing countries have paid a heavy price as a result of the present difficulties in the world economy. That has been reflected in growth that is generally lower than pre-crisis levels. Already grappling with adverse trading arrangements and the consequences of an inconclusive and disappointing Doha Development Round, the plight of developing countries has been made worse by the prolonged global slump. Many of the gains made before 2008 have been erased by the continuing difficulties in the world economy. The small, vulnerable economies of the Caribbean face special challenges, compounded by generally high levels of indebtedness and falling export revenues. It is within the unfavourable international climate that we have to judge our own performance. Guyana has had to face many serious challenges. However, we have worked steadfastly to build a more resilient economy and country. We have managed to forestall the worst effects of the international economic crises. Over the past six years, we have achieved an economic growth rate of approximately 5 per cent per annum. The growth rate is, I believe, the result of the investments that we have been making in our people. More than 30 per cent of our budget is dedicated to education, health, housing, water and social programmes to help the most vulnerable. Today Guyana has achieved universal primary education, and we have come a long way towards attaining universal secondary education. However, significant challenges remain in reaching people in the remote areas of our country. If we are to encourage our youth to become responsible citizens and prepare them to be the leaders of tomorrow, we must ensure that our education systems allow for the development of their full potential. I am therefore honoured to join the Secretary- General in promoting the Education First initiative. We are nonetheless conscious that the sustainability of our growth and that of other developing countries will be hindered if the weakness in the international economy is prolonged. Guyana therefore continues to advocate for reform of the graduation policies and aid allocation criteria of the international financial institutions to take account of the structural vulnerability and level of economic resilience of small States, for measures to ease the debt burden, for renewed access to concessionary financing for highly indebted middle-income countries and for the strengthening of financial regulations. The international economic crisis has also led to growing negative social problems. Despite great efforts by many countries, the war against narco–trafficking is far from over. That scourge has an impact on all our countries. It has also directly and indirectly engendered the growth in criminal activity in our region. The availability of guns in many societies — I would note that we do not produce them — most of which has come as a by-product of the narco-trade, has contributed to the growth of gun crimes and murders in the region and beyond. To deal with the problem, Guyana is ready to cooperate fully with the international community to bring the criminals to justice and free our people from the multiple dangers that drug trafficking creates. Even as our society advances, the issues we have to deal with often seem to multiply. The issue of trafficking in persons has also arisen over the past decade as a major concern. We join with all democratic and decent people throughout the world in condemning that crime. Again, it is a campaign that requires a high level of cooperation. We are ready to play our part. If solving those collective problems requires greater will, then other transnational problems such as the climate crisis require urgent, immediate and decisive action. Our failure to do so risks causing irretrievable harm to humankind. Despite the strong scientific and economic case for action, the global response to the climate crisis falls short of what is required in terms of both scale and urgency. The projected level of reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions is much too low. Scientists are warning us of the catastrophic consequences if the rise in greenhouse emissions is not halted. Already some States are facing imminent extinction. To add insult to injury, the promise of fast-start financing made at Copenhagen a few years ago has not materialized. The result is that those most at risk are effectively deprived of the means to adapt to that existential threat. We cannot continue to deal with threats to the survival of the planet with such casualness. As a low-lying coastal State, Guyana is mindful of the dangers posed by climate change. We have been at the forefront of the appeals to the international community to match its concern with tangible action. It is clear that some countries are taking the issue seriously. Norway has led the way by giving tangible support in fighting climate change. Guyana, for its part, has chosen to pursue a low-carbon development strategy in order to ensure economic growth, social progress and environmental sustainability for present and future generations of our citizens. But, as our experience patently demonstrates, that path is not without its hurdles. Just three short months ago, in Rio de Janeiro, we renewed our collective commitment to sustainable development and to ensuring the promotion of an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable future for our planet. We also agreed that the eradication of poverty was the greatest challenge facing the world today, and we recommitted ourselves to freeing humankind from poverty and hunger as a matter of urgency. We need, therefore, as a matter of exigency, to respond to the plight of more than 1 billion of our fellow citizens who bear the ache of hunger on a daily basis. They are found on every continent, in every city and in rural communities across the world. Their plight is worsening. Food prices are surging once again, and risk rising even further as severe droughts decimate crop yields. Those who suffer from chronic hunger today cannot wait until the international community agrees on a post-2015 development framework. They cannot wait until we craft new sustainable development goals. They need action now. The decades-long under-investment in agriculture and rural development needs to be urgently reversed if food security is to be guaranteed on a sustainable basis. In line with the Five Rome Principles for Sustainable Global Food Security, Guyana calls for an acceleration of the twin-track approach to enhancing direct action against hunger for the most vulnerable and for promoting medium- to long-term sustainability in agriculture and rural development. In that context, increased international support for the expansion of rural infrastructure is critical. Ms. Flores (Honduras), Vice-President, took the Chair. If we are to maintain our credibility, we must avoid indecisiveness on the issues that afflict humankind. We are only three short years away from 2015, the year we set for ourselves to reach important goals for improving the security of our planet and enhancing the quality of life for all. We must do what we promised to do and we must do so without delay. Greater alacrity is also needed in the area of politics, where tensions and unrest in many corners of our globe threaten to undermine international peace and security. The tide of democratic change that has swept the planet and raised the expectations of peoples for social progress and better standards of life in an environment of enlarged freedoms is receding. Those legitimate aspirations deserve the respect and encouragement of the Governments concerned and the support of the international community. No people should be denied the right to live in dignity or to live a life free from fear and want. At the same time, we must be careful to guard against the superimposition of agendas based on ulterior designs that are alien to those noble aspirations. While we give solidarity and support where needed, let us not forget that this body crafted an important principle of self-determination. Human rights and fundamental freedoms are best preserved in an environment of peace and security. Respect for the rule of law and tolerance for the faiths and beliefs of all humankind must continue to be the guiding principles through which we build harmonious societies. While we condemn the attacks and insults that the recent film heaped on Islam, we believe that nothing of that nature can justify the murder of diplomats and the violence we have seen. We therefore extend our sympathy to the people and Government of the United States of America on the murder of Ambassador Christopher Stevens and others in Libya. We believe that the best homage we can pay to their memory is to work even harder for a just, peaceful and tolerant world. In concert with the proposed theme of this debate, the United Nations must continue to pursue peaceful solutions to political conflicts, no matter how slow and painstaking the process may be. It is my country’s sincere hope that peace will soon come to the Syrian people. Guyana urges the renewal of efforts to bring the warring parties to the negotiating table. The international community must contribute to peace and not to the exacerbation of strife and conflict. Any abandonment of its role in bringing peace to Syria will result in greater suffering in that country and undermine security in that part of the world. The United Nations must therefore persevere in finding a peaceful end to the conflict. We therefore support the efforts of the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States in trying to bring the conflict in Syria to a peaceful end. I also wish to underline Guyana’s strong support for the peaceful settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We are of the view that the resolution of that conflict, which has lasted for too long, is key to a lasting peace in the Middle East. Guyana recognizes the State of Palestine based on its 1967 borders and supports its aspirations to full membership in the United Nations. The Palestinian people deserve the same rights as people everywhere: to live in dignity, security, freedom and independence, at peace with all their neighbours and with the right to move freely in their own land. Guyana is encouraged by the continuing efforts of the Republic of the Sudan and the Republic of South Sudan to resolve their differences through negotiations. We are hopeful also that the people of Mali will be able to overcome their current crisis and restore the celebrated legacy of Timbuktu. Having regard for the principle of the sovereignty of States set down in the United Nations Charter, Guyana wishes to place on record once again its firm opposition to the economic, financial and commercial embargo imposed against its sister Caribbean State of Cuba. We call for an immediate end to the policy. Cuba has made great contributions to the social development of many developing countries. The lifting of the blockade can allow it to do much more. The myriad challenges affecting our world today pose a formidable test to the multilateral system that embodies our collective aspirations for peace and development. Such challenges tax our collective resolve to act in the best interest of humankind. The United Nations was established at a time when the vast majority of the human family was not represented in its councils and most nations could not speak on their own behalf. That is not the case today. The near universal representativeness of its membership gives the United Nations unparalleled legitimacy among world institutions. The governance of the Organization needs major reform if it is to reflect the realities of the present time and give full expression to the aspirations of the world’s peoples. For the Security Council, the imperative for reform is particularly urgent. I reaffirm Guyana’s steadfast support for timely reform of the Council through an expansion in both the permanent and non-permanent categories, with particular regard to the representation of developing countries. The United Nations must also be reformed in a manner that will enhance its contribution to global economic governance, in keeping with the purposes of its Charter. The United Nations has an important role to play in addressing the democracy deficit in decision-making on such matters, which often have far-reaching implications, particularly for small States. Reforming the United Nations along those lines will provide it with greater legitimacy, which is key to its effectiveness in the eyes of the world. That legitimacy will be enhanced by the delivery of results that meet the expectations of the global citizenry in areas where action is most needed. In conclusion, allow me to recognize the great role played by this body over the years in promoting world peace. It has done a lot to contain and resolve regional and local conflicts. In our time, the United Nations has become indispensable in tackling pressing global issues. We must therefore all work together to strengthen the Organization so as to make it more effective in the face of the many challenges that are ahead.﻿It is a great pleasure for me to address this great General Assembly for the second year in a row. Last September, I tried to convey to the Assembly a message of progress and hope. Today I bring from the people of Timor-Leste a message of both joy and thankfulness. The United Nations has been in Timor-Leste since the difficult times of our emancipation, having led the popular consultation of 1999. Since then, it has been enormously challenging to build from scratch the foundations of a new State under the rule of law, based on democratic governance and respect for human rights. As such, after the United Nations Mission in East Timor, we had missions such as the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor, the United Nations Mission of Support in East Timor, the United Nations Office in Timor-Leste and the United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste (UNMIT) accompanying us in this crucial journey of State-building, as well as in the creation of an atmosphere of reconciliation and harmony, with a view to achieving peace and stability. In our still-brief existence as a State, we have been trying to learn from the errors of the past. Today I can say that we have decisively moved away from the difficult circumstances that characterize post-conflict countries or, in other words, countries with recent histories of conflict and violence. We have come to understand — along with several countries — that peace and stability are essential prerequisites for State-building. This year, 2012, therefore marks not exactly the end of a chapter in our history of peacebuilding but, more particularly, the start of a new one — a chapter of ongoing institutional strengthening with the goal of boosting national development. After two rounds of presidential elections, in March and April, our people elected as the third President of the Republic Major-General Taur Matan Ruak, a historic figure in the struggle for liberation, who has been serving the motherland since 1975. Taur Matan Ruak led the armed resistance and became Chief of Defence Forces in 1999. In May, we had the pleasure of hosting five heads of State and many delegations from friendly countries to celebrate with us the tenth anniversary of the restoration of our independence. That took place within an atmosphere of peace, stability and confidence in the future. The landmark moment of the celebrations was the constitutional transfer of power from the then President of the Republic, Mr. José Ramos-Horta, to the new head of State, in a highly dignified manner for our young democracy. On 7 July, the Timorese people were called to vote once again, and on 30 July, the new Parliament took office. As a result of those elections, three parties were chosen to ensure the governance of Timor-Leste from 2012 to 2017. Consequently, on 8 August the Fifth Constitutional Government was sworn in and given the mission of continuing to consolidate the vital institutions of a peaceful and democratic nation. In that way, we will also be continuing the work done by the previous Government, which consisted of a five-party coalition and undoubtedly sowed the seeds for national peace and stability, in addition to boosting our economy. During the course of this year, we have also been honoured with visits by several eminent personalities, including two high-level dignitaries: in August, the Secretary-General, His Excellency Ban Ki-moon, decided to see for himself the changes that had taken place in our country since his last visit five years ago. His visit was a magnificent gesture of support by a man with a broad vision of peace and development, a vision that is shared by the Timorese people. The Secretary- General acknowledged the progress made and spoke words of encouragement regarding the strengthening of the ties of cooperation between the United Nations and Timor-Leste in an important undertaking, Education First, which is part of his global education initiative. More recently, we also had the pleasure of hosting the United States Secretary of State, Mrs. Hillary Clinton. That was the first time that a senior representative of the United States Government had visited our young country. Mrs. Clinton also conveyed an important message of confidence and solidarity, praising the strong commitment by Timor-Leste to the values and principles of democracy and good governance. Those events are even more important given that UNMIT and the International Stabilization Force will withdraw by the end of 2012. That will mark the end of peacekeeping operations in Timor-Leste. All this has instilled in the hearts of the Timorese people a very special feeling of accomplishment and national pride. I would like to convey that feeling of joy and thankfulness to all countries Members of the United Nations and to the various international organizations that have provided us with ongoing support in terms of consolidating peace, democracy and human rights. The President of the Republic, Taur Matan Ruak, has asked me to make public that on 20 May 2013 the Timorese State will be honouring, with the highest insignia of Timor-Leste, all countries and parties that have taken part in missions in Timor-Leste, starting with the General Assembly and the Security Council. For our people, that will be an act of profound recognition, expressing the wish that from now on the United Nations will pay more attention to our brothers and sisters in need. The success of Timor-Leste belongs to everyone — to the international community for their dedicated support and solidarity, and to the Timorese people for the courage to acknowledge their mistakes and for their firmness and determination in correcting them. Throughout the past four years, our people have clearly said no to conflict in order to fully embrace the aspirations of their own development. The Timorese people were also able to display a high degree of political maturity by expressing, in a peaceful and constructive manner, renewed confidence in their elected leaders and in State institutions. All of this is essential for reaffirming that, today more than ever, we are ready to continue leading the national development process, including the full establishment of our democratic State under the rule of law and the gradual implementation of the Strategic Development Plan 2011-2030. However, we want to maintain strong ties with the United Nations and other partners under a new cooperation framework, taking as a starting point the current needs of the country in both institutional strengthening and in the development sector. Based on the principles of the New Deal, which are advocated by the group of seven plus (g7+), we hope to see relationships of cooperation being established in an innovative, dynamic and effective manner. After overcoming the main obstacles in terms of State-building, Timor-Leste is now looking to the future with optimism. Consequently, the Government’s programme for the 2012-2017 mandate, which has already been endorsed by Parliament, establishes short- term — five years — activities, lists sectors where activities can be started in order to have impacts in the medium term of 5 to 10 years, and includes objectives for the long term of 10 to 20 years , to be implemented according to priorities and execution time. We will continue to invest in social capital with the aim of building capacity and of dignifying Timorese citizens by maximizing the quality of and access to health, education, professional training, information, social justice and culture. We will invest in basic infrastructures, which will be the driving force of the country’s development. We will develop the economic sector to make better use of our potential and to create employment. We will encourage the growth of the private sector, both local and foreign. We will continue our efforts to consolidate the institutional framework so as to improve the functioning, management and implementation of programmes. That includes a strong public sector, good governance and a credible system of justice. Meanwhile, we will improve the social programmes that cater to our most vulnerable citizens, including the disabled, the elderly, and women and children at risk, in order to ensure that no Timorese citizen is marginalized or socially excluded. We will also continue to dignify our veterans. Today we have a plan, a vision and a goal: to transform Timor-Leste from a low-income country to a medium-high-income one by 2030. We want to be a prosperous and safe nation with a healthy and educated population, a country that provides skilled employment for all. However, in the short term, by 2015, Timor-Leste will not meet the Millennium Development Goals. The current major challenge for Timor-Leste is the fight against poverty — a challenge that we share with over one billion people in our planet. Regrettably, around 20 per cent of the world’s population live in conditions of extreme poverty. Hunger and the lack of access to water sources will remain insurmountable challenges. Mothers and children throughout the world will continue to die tragically due to lack of access to services to meet the most basic needs. Unfortunately, those are the current projections for 2015. For that reason, it was very timely of the Secretary- General to create a high-level panel to help establish new guidelines for beyond 2015. Here, I must confess that we were proud to see a Timorese woman — our Minister of Finance, Emilia Pires — deservingly chosen as a panel member. Timor-Leste wants to contribute to the debate on that issue in a clear and constructive manner. It is urgent to address the structural factors that have hindered the efforts that so many people of goodwill have made without obtaining tangible results. We have a historical opportunity to change things. We can learn from the lessons of the Millennium Development Goals process, analysing what worked and what did not, in order to do better in the future. Strengthening the role of the United Nations is essential. However, it will require the courage to break with the old way of handling things. We need new action paradigms and new coordination mechanisms so that programmes may truly benefit the people of the more affected countries. The g7+ was created in April 2010 in Dili, during the preparation for the International Dialogue on Peacebuilding and Statebuilding, which took place in Timor-Leste. Prior to the creation of the g7+, there was no mechanism whereby fragile States with common concerns about peace and development could discuss such matters in a less subservient way than in their relationships with donors and development agencies. It is quite common for recipient countries to consider that the international assistance they receive is not the most appropriate to meet their real needs. Countries complain of the lack of an accountability system in relation to the money that is actually spent on the poor, compared to the amounts spent to improve the well-being of those who manage the projects and those who manage the reports on the projects, long documents that are irrelevant because they are out of touch with the reality on the ground. For those reasons, in a true spirit of openness and sharing, with a common desire to improve the living conditions of their people and to contribute to sustainable peace and development, fragile countries created the g7+ as an international group through which they could speak with one voice. Yes, we say one voice. Speaking as one, we will be able to demand responsibility from the leaders of beneficiary countries and also accountability to the taxpayers of the donor countries. Those are the same reasons why we are advocating the New Deal, which seeks to ensure better coordination and ownership of international assistance by recipient countries. We want assistance to have genuine impacts on the people and to correspond better to the true needs of the beneficiary populations. Timor-Leste is fully committed to leading the g7+, bringing the same commitment it showed when moving from a situation of conflict and fragility to a situation of social and political peace and stability. We want to contribute in a way that is sound and based on actual experiences in the g7+ itself. We are a small country that is still fragile in some aspects, but we share the same huge concerns of the 17 nations that make up our group, with a total population of more than 300 million people. We have seen how intolerance causes irreparable destruction in several parts of the world, particularly in the daily lives of innocent people. The brunt of the impact is borne by women, mothers, children and the elderly, making them even more vulnerable. Intolerance breeds hatred and the desire for vengeance. The world is not changing so much as it is destroying itself. Consolidating the gains of the Arab Spring is proving to be difficult. Syria is a terrible example of internal conflict. Iraq and Afghanistan do not present better perspectives of being able to solve their internal differences, which are becoming deeper. My good friend Mr. Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, the President of the Republic of Indonesia, has been hosting the Bali Democracy Forum, which has been attracting greater interest each year, along with an increasing number of participating countries. We have always maintained in that Forum that democracy cannot be imposed upon people, for the same reasons that solar panels cannot be imposed on homes without food, which therefore have no prospect of sustainability. Democracy must be an internal process. The process is sometimes long, but it is vital for a lasting solution. The most recent, dynamic and inspirational example comes from Myanmar. I commend Aung San Suu Kyi, a woman with an unshakeable character, a born leader, a resolute democrat and a defender of peaceful solutions, who is today an advocate for internal reconciliation. I also commend the leaders of Myanmar for their courage in making changes in the country. On behalf of the people of Timor-Leste, I also salute the people of Myanmar and wish them prosperity, and I appeal for dialogue, reconciliation and tolerance. Today’s world faces very serious problems and is sliding towards an increasingly dangerous lack of control. In addition to a recent atmosphere of regional instability, environmental threats continue to grow, hindering the legitimate aspirations of emerging and developing countries to benefit from their natural resources. In the Pacific region, some island States see their very survival at risk. Food security concerns are also coming to the foreground as a further result of climate changes, requiring careful thought and an immediate and broad strategy. In several parts of the world we see an immoral increase in inequality, with a rich and powerful elite dominating the globe with impunity while the poor become even poorer and eternally dependent on wasteful assistance. What is more, it is difficult to know from where that assistance will come. In order to meet these challenges, we need a strong and efficient United Nations that cooperates more effectively with international and regional organizations and that operates with great respect for the sovereignty of each State. The United Nations, which consists of all of us here today, has a duty to humanity. We should all acknowledge that we are the privileged agents of the necessary collective change to a better and safer world. Our collective efforts to preserve peace, security and human dignity must be translated from altruistic idealism to a more interventionist plan. That in turn means replacing a reactive agenda with a proactive one. It also means reducing the dominance of political and economic interests in favour of social and humanitarian interests. That requires the mobilization of public opinion around the world through dialogue about the values of peace and harmony among civilizations and cultures, mutual respect among societies, and tolerance among groups. We can also start with the reform of the Security Council, which should be more representative. There is an imperative need to renew mindsets by the incorporation of new members, so as to energize new commitments and responsibilities reflecting the current situations in today’s world. Timor-Leste has been walking the corridors of the United Nations for 38 years. In the beginning, we wanted to mobilize public opinion in favour of our cause and to warn the world that our fundamental rights were being violated. Today, we are informing the international community of our setbacks and achievements in the construction of a sovereign State. When we were guerrilla fighters in the mountains, we heard about a new world order. Today, many people are still oppressed because they suffer in one way or another. We are here to speak in favour of dialogue and fair decision-making. Human dignity must be at the core of decisions on problems affecting our planet. We must have an overall sense of the existence, the fears, the suffering, the despair and the fight for survival of men and women around the world. Today we are here to ask for honest, constructive and unceasing dialogue to solve the problems that trouble the world — a dialogue encompassing problems large and small, conflicts large and small and nations large and small.﻿It is an honour to join this eminent gathering. Allow me to extend Jordan’s sincere congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Vuk Jeremić. I would like to assure him of Jordan’s full cooperation. May I also express to the Secretary-General Jordan’s appreciation for his untiring efforts. I welcome his voice and the voices of world leaders of many religions who stand with billions of Muslims worldwide in rejecting provocations meant to divide those of different faiths. Islam teaches us to honour all human beings, promote tolerance and show mercy. As a Hashemite and a descendant of the Prophet Muhammad — peace and blessings upon him — I condemn all acts that vilify the name of the Prophet or falsely use his name or the name of Islam — or any other religion, for that matter — to justify violence and evil acts such as we have recently witnessed. There are no sidelines on this issue. All of us of every faith everywhere must be proactive in promoting understanding and a much stronger global dialogue. “To unite our strength” — these four words in the United Nations Charter are not just an old dream, they are a modern urgency. The United Nations and the General Assembly — empowered and strong — are needed today as never before. In my region, we have important tasks ahead. We must provide new and better opportunities for our people, especially our youth, to avert the dangers of regional instability and conflict and to fulfil the universal desire — the basic human right — to live in freedom, dignity, justice and peace. The international community has a crucial interest in supporting countries that are taking risks for peace and reform. In Jordan we have charted our course guided by our heritage, by our mutual respect and by moderation. Our Arab Spring journey is one of opportunity to accelerate home-grown reforms and achieve national goals. Last year I stood before the Assembly and spoke about the reforms that were on the horizon (see A/66/PV.11). Since then, new and comprehensive constitutional amendments, as well as new laws, have created a matrix of institutions and principles to support our path of reform and democratization. And with the new year, we will have our new Parliament, and our Jordanian Summer will begin. I would like to address the tragic situation in Syria. Violence must end immediately, and a transition must begin now. There is no alternative to a political solution that will end the bloodshed, restore security and stability and preserve the territorial integrity of Syria and the dignity and unity of its people. The United Nations has an important part to play in helping people commit to a political solution. Jordan will do all in its power to support the newly appointed Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi. The peoples of Jordan and Syria have long and deep ties. Since the current crisis erupted, over 200,000 Syrians have sought refuge in Jordan, putting heavy pressure on our limited resources and our economy. Yet we, as Jordanians, have opened our arms, as we have many times in the past for others in need. As we continue to shoulder that responsibility, international support is essential. We are very grateful for the generous response of Governments, international bodies and dedicated United Nations agencies. The somber reality is, however, that more will be needed, as the camps grow more crowded with vulnerable families and the cold desert winter approaches. I call upon the countries of the United Nations to work together to prevent a humanitarian disaster. While we deal with those challenges, we must never lose our focus on the crisis at the heart of the region. For almost 65 years, the Palestinian people have been the exception to the United Nations promise. We pledge the shelter of international law and human rights, except not yet; the dignity of living in freedom and security, except not yet; the right to self-determination, except not yet. It is time to say, “Enough!” As the Arab Spring demanded dignity for all, so it demanded the end of exceptionalism. No single issue causes greater anger than to tell an entire people that when it comes to global justice they do not count. The Arab Summer cannot bear its full fruit until the Palestinian-Israeli conflict ends, and ends with a just peace and a Palestinian State living side by side with a secure Israel at peace with the entire region. Earlier this year, in Amman, we succeeded in getting both sides back to the table for exploratory talks. Then positive traction stopped again. Illegal settlementbuilding and unilateral actions have continued, constituting direct threats to a negotiated peace. We are extremely concerned by threats to Jerusalem and the sanctity of its Muslim and Christian holy sites. The Al-Aqsa Mosque compound of Al-Haram Al-Sharif in East Jerusalem is under Hashemite custodianship, a special role recognized by the 1994 Jordan-Israel Treaty of Peace and protected as occupied territory by international law. It is Islam’s third holiest site and its importance to 1.7 billion Muslims, one quarter of the world’s population, is similar to the importance of the Ka’ba itself. Let me be absolutely clear, any invasion or division of the site of Al-Masjid Al-Aqsa would be viewed not only as a breach of Israel’s obligations but as a profound religious transgression. The international community must send a clear message that such a transgression, or any attempt to erase the Arab, Muslim or Christian identity of Jerusalem, will not be tolerated. What is needed now is the full weight of our nations, united. Neither the parties nor the world can afford continued hostility and insecurity. There may be a rare window of opportunity later this year, after the United States elections, to achieve what both sides so urgently need, namely, two States at peace, Palestine and Israel, both secure, both free to look forward on the basis of a just, comprehensive and final settlement. That has always been and will remain a foremost priority for Jordan. Let me say now, as I have said before, that the Arab world seeks peace. We mean by that real peace: diplomatic relations, economic relations, trade and investment. We mean by that a new normality, in peace, where people are safe in their homes, where communities are able to build and where cooperation helps the entire region prosper. All this has been on offer for over 10 years, since 2002, under the Arab Peace Initiative, through which 57 Arab and Muslim countries reached out collectively to Israel. It is time for Israel to turn around, look to the future we must share and make a just and lasting peace with the Palestinians. Almost 70 years ago, countries from every continent chose to come together in hopes of a world united in peace and respectful of all humankind. After a bitter, destructive global war, the United Nations was the right step, the brave step. Today, almost three generations later, we have learned that it is not enough to make the right choices. We must also pursue effective action. Not only as nations but as nations united, we must take the right steps, the brave steps, now.﻿I am proud that this year Britain welcomed the world to the Olympic and Paralympic games and put on a great display, showing that while we may have only the twenty- second-largest population in the world, we can roll out one of its warmest welcomes. I am honoured, too, that in the coming year I have been asked to co-chair the high-level panel designed to help us build on one of the greatest achievements of the United Nations, the Millennium Development Goals. Britain takes that work very seriously. I am convinced that we need to focus more than ever on the building blocks that take countries and people from poverty to prosperity. By those building blocks I mean the absence of conflict and corruption and the presence of property rights and the rule of law. We should never forget that for many in the world the closest relative of poverty is injustice. Development has never been just about aid or money, but I am proud that Britain is a country that keeps its promises to the poorest in our world. A year ago I stood here and argued that the Arab Spring represented an unprecedented opportunity for advancing peace, prosperity and security. One year on, some believe that the Arab Spring is in danger of becoming an Arab winter. They point to the riots on the streets, to Syria’s descent into a bloody civil war, to frustration at the lack of economic progress and to the emergence of newly elected Islamist-led Governments across the region. But I believe those people are in danger of drawing the wrong conclusion. Today is not the time to turn back, but to keep the faith and to redouble our support for open societies and for people’s demands for a job and a voice. Yes, the path is challenging. But democracy is not, and never has been, simply about holding an election. It is not one person, one vote, once. Democracy is about establishing the building blocks of true democracy: the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law, with the majority prepared to defend the rights of the minority; the freedom of the media; a proper place for the army in society; and the development of effective State institutions, political parties and a wider civil society. I am not so naive as to believe that democracy alone has some magical healing power. I am a liberal Conservative, not a neo-conservative. I respect each country’s different histories and traditions. I welcome the steps taken in countries where reform is happening with the consent of the people. I know that every country takes its own path, and that progress will sometimes be slow. Some countries have achieved stability and success based on tradition and consent. Others have endured decades in which the institutions of civil society were deliberately destroyed, political parties banned, free media abolished and the rule of law twisted for the benefit of the few. We cannot expect the damage of decades to be put right in a matter of months. But the drive for opportunity, justice and the rule of law and the hunger for a job and a voice are not responsible for the problems in the region. In fact, quite the opposite: the building blocks of democracy, fair economies and open societies are part of the solution, not part of the problem. We in the United Nations must step up our efforts to support the people of those countries as they build their own democratic future. Let me take the key arguments in turn. First, there are those who say there has been too little progress, that the Arab Spring has produced few tangible improvements in people’s lives. That is not right. Look at Libya since the fall of Al-Qadhafi. We have seen elections to create a new Congress, and now plans to integrate armed groups into the national police and army. None of that is to ignore the huge and sobering challenges that remain. The murder of Ambassador Chris Stevens was a despicable act of terrorism. But the right response is to finish the work that Chris Stevens gave his life to. That is what the vast majority of Libyans want, too, as we saw so inspiringly in Benghazi last weekend, when they took to the streets in the thousands, refusing to allow extremists to hijack their chance for democracy. The Arab Spring has also brought progress in Egypt, where the democratically elected President has asserted civilian control over the military; in Yemen and Tunisia, where elections have brought new Governments to power; and in Morocco, where there is a new Constitution and a Prime Minister appointed on the basis of a popular vote for the first time. Even further afield, Somalia has also taken the first vital step forward by electing a new President. So there has been progress. None of it would have come about without people standing up last year and demanding change, or without the United Nations having the courage to respond to those crises. Secondly, there is the argument that the removal of dictators has somehow started to unleash a new wave of violence, extremism and instability. Some argue that in a volatile region, only an authoritarian strong man can maintain stability and security. Or even, some argue, that recent events prove that democracy in the Middle East brings terrorism, not security, and sectarian conflict, not peace. Again, I believe we should reject that argument. I have no illusions about the danger that political transition can be exploited by violent extremists. I understand the importance of protecting people and defending national security. Britain is determined to work with our allies to do that. But democracy and open societies are not the problem. The fact is that, for decades, too many were prepared to tolerate dictators like Al-Qadhafi and Al-Assad on the basis that they would keep their people safe at home and promote stability in the region and the wider world. In fact, neither was true. Not only were theose dictators repressing their people, ruling by control not by consent, plundering the national wealth, and denying people their basic rights and freedoms, they were funding terrorism overseas as well. Brutal dictatorships made the region more dangerous not less; more dangerous because those regimes dealt with frustration at home by whipping up anger against their neighbours, against the West, against Israel; and more dangerous, too, because people denied a job and a voice were given no alternative but a dead-end choice between dictatorship and extremism. What was heartening about the events of Tahrir Square was that the Egyptian people found their voice and rejected that false choice. They withheld their consent from a Government that had lost all legitimacy, and they chose instead the road to a more open and fair society. The road is not easy, but it is the right one. I believe it will make countries safer in the end. Next, there are those who say that, whatever may have been achieved elsewhere, in Syria the Arab Spring has unleashed a vortex of sectarian violence and hatred with the potential to destroy the whole region. Syria does present some profound challenges. But those who look at Syria today and blame the Arab Spring have got it the wrong way round. We cannot blame the people for the behaviour of a brutal dictator. The responsibility lies with the brutal dictator himself. Al-Assad is today inf laming Syria’s sectarian tensions, just as his father did as far back as the slaughter in Hama 30 years ago. And not only in Syria; Al-Assad has colluded with those in Iran who are set on dragging the region into wider conflict. The only way out of Syria’s nightmare is to move forward towards political transition and not to give up the cause of freedom. The future for Syria is a future without Al-Assad. It has to be based on mutual consent, as was clearly agreed in the International Conference on Syria held in Geneva in June. If anyone was in any doubt about the horrors that Al-Assad has inf licted on his people, just look at the evidence published this week by Save the Children: schools used as torture centres, children used for target practice. A 16-year-old Syrian called Wael who was detained in a police station in Daraa said: “I have seen children slaughtered. No, I do not think I will ever be OK again...lf there was even 1 per cent of humanity in the world, this would not happen”. The blood of those young children is a terrible stain on the reputation of the United Nations. In particular, it is a stain on those who have failed to stand up to these atrocities and those who in some cases aided and abetted Al-Assad’s regime of terror. lf the United Nations Charter is to have any value in the twenty- first century, we must now join together to support a rapid political transition. At the same time, no one of conscience can turn a deaf ear to the voices of suffering. Security Council members have a particular responsibility to support the United Nations appeal for Syria. Britain, already the third biggest donor, is today announcing a further $12 million in humanitarian support, including new support for UNICEF’s work to help Syrian children. We look to our international partners to do more as well. Of course, the Arab Spring has not removed overnight the profound economic challenges that these countries face. Too many countries face falling investment, rising food prices and bigger trade deficits. But it is completely wrong to suggest that the Arab Spring has somehow created those economic problems. It is a challenging time for the world economy as a whole. There was never going to be an economic transformation overnight, not least because far from being successful open-market-based economies, many of these countries were beset by vested interests and corruption, with unaccountable institutions. That has, one might say, created a double problem. Not just fragile economies, but worse, people were told they had experienced free enterprise and open markets when they had experienced nothing of the sort. So we must help these countries unwind the legacy of endemic corruption, military expenditure they cannot afford, natural resources unfairly exploited; in short, the mass kleptocracy that they suffered under for too long. While I am on the subject of stolen assets, we also have a responsibility to help these countries get back the stolen assets that are rightfully theirs, just as we have returned billions of dollars of assets to Libya. It is simply not good enough that the Egyptian people continue to be denied those assets long after Mubarak has gone. Today, I am announcing a new British task force to work with the Egyptian Government to gather evidence, trace assets, work to change European Union law and pursue the legal cases that will return the stolen money to its rightful owners, the Egyptian people. Finally, perhaps most challenging of all for Western countries like mine, is the argument that elections have simply opened the door to Islamist parties whose values are incompatible with truly open societies. My response to this is clear. We should respect the outcome of elections. But we should not compromise on our definition of what makes an open society. We should judge Islamists by what they do. The test is this. Will they entrust the rights of citizenship to fellow countrymen and countrywomen who do not share their specific political or religious views? Do they accept that, unlike the dictators they replaced, they should never pervert the democratic process to hold onto power if they lose the consent of the people they serve? Will they live up to their commitments to protect the rule of law for all citizens, to defend the rights of Christians and minorities and to allow women a full role in society, in the economy and in politics? The truth is this: we cannot build strong economies, we cannot build open societies and we cannot have inclusive political systems if we lock out women. The eyes of the world today may be on the brothers, but the future is as much in the hands of their mothers, their sisters and their daughters. Holding Islamists to account must also mean that if they attempt to undermine the stability of other countries, encourage terrorism instead of peace or promote conflict instead of partnership, we will oppose them. That is why Iran will continue to face the full force of sanctions and scrutiny from the United Nations until it gives up its ambitions to spread a nuclear shadow over the world. It is also why we should not waver from our insistence that Hamas give up violence. Hamas must not be allowed to dictate the way forward. Palestinians should have the chance to fulfil the same aspirations for a job and a voice as others in the region, and we support their right to have a State and a home. And Israelis should be able to fulfil their own aspirations to live in peace and security with their neighbours. Of course there are challenges in working with Governments that have different views and cultural traditions. But there is a fundamental difference between Islam and extremism. Islam is a great religion observed peacefully and devoutly by more than 1 billion people. Islamist extremism is a warped political ideology supported by a minority that seeks to hijack that great religion, to gain respectability for its violent objectives. It is vital that we make that distinction. In Turkey, we see a Government with roots in Islamic values but with democratic politics, an open economy and a responsible attitude to supporting change in Libya, Syria and elsewhere in the region. I profoundly believe the same path is open to Egypt, Tunisia and their neighbours. We must help them take it. Democracy and Islam can flourish alongside one another. Let us judge Governments not by their religion, but by how they act and what they do. Let us engage with the new democratic Governments in Egypt, Tunisia and Libya so their success can strengthen democracy, not undermine it. There is no doubt that we are in the midst of profound change and that many uncertainties lie ahead. But the building blocks of democracy, fair economies and open societies are part of the solution, not the problem. Indeed, nothing in the last year has changed my fundamental conviction. The Arab Spring represents a precious opportunity for people to realize their aspirations for a job, a voice and a stake in their future. We in the United Nations must do everything we can to support them.﻿Let me start by extending my sincere congratulations to the President of the General Assembly and his country, Serbia, upon his election to preside over the sixty-seventh session. I am confident that, with his extensive experience and diplomatic skill, he will lead this session of the General Assembly to a successful conclusion. I pledge the support of the Eritrean delegation for his noble efforts for the common good. I wish to pay profound tribute to the outgoing President, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for his commendable work at the sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly. He indeed served us well. I would also like to thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his leadership and his report (A/67/2) on the work of our United Nations at the outset of this general debate. Almost seven decades have elapsed since the establishment of the United Nations, and, undoubtedly, the world has seen much political, economic, social and technological progress. However, it is clear that the United Nations has not succeeded in its paramount purpose of saving humankind from the scourge of war. In the past 67 years, there has hardly been one in which no war raged somewhere in the world. What is particularly significant is the fact that in most of these wars, the major Powers were the main architects and actors — those same Powers which, by virtue of their position in the Security Council, should have shouldered the greatest responsibility in the maintenance of peace and stability. On another front, and again despite the progress made, in the twenty-first century, hundreds of millions of people in the developing world, as well as in developed countries, continue to suffer from the scourge of poverty, easily preventable diseases and avoidable premature deaths. In addition to the twin scourges of war and poverty, our world now faces an environmental threat that puts human livelihoods and survival at risk. It is therefore disconcerting that the current global political, economic and security architecture is inadequate to address the challenges that we all face. The United Nations system, as has been repeatedly pointed out, is indeed outdated. The General Assembly has been emasculated. The Security Council is dominated by one powerful permanent member, and is increasingly becoming paralysed. Change is being resisted by those who believe they have benefited from the old, anachronistic order. Respect for the sovereign equality and territorial integrity of nations and non-interference in their internal affairs — which constitute the pillars of international law and the Charter of the United Nations — are being eroded and wilfully f louted. The noble aims of protecting human rights and civilian lives are being selectively and cynically employed to justify military aggression, external intervention and imposition of sanctions — collective as well as unilateral — to destabilize nations, change Governments and gain economic advantages. This summary assessment, Eritrea believes, is shared by the majority of States Members of the United Nations. It is indeed the position of Africa, of most developing countries, the Non-Aligned Movement, the emerging Powers and many in the developed world. What this emerging consensus now needs is a concerted and coordinated effort to effect real change, including in the United Nations system, that would lead to a more peaceful, just and equitable world. No part of the world is in need of positive change more than the African continent, which remains marginalized and almost voiceless. And yet Africa is a continent of massive potential, and there are already unmistakable, if tentative, signs of its awakening. A number of African countries are taking serious steps in the economic, political and social arenas and the revitalization of the African Union proceeds apace. We hope that this African initiative, which will have a salutary effect on the world economy and international governance, will be supported by a more conducive international environment and by the United Nations. Eritrea is convinced that our subregion, the Horn of Africa, will overcome its current difficulties and make a substantial contribution to the re-emergence of a dynamic and prosperous Africa. Despite the difficulties it has faced, it has made remarkable progress in providing and caring for its people and rebuilding its economy, and has embarked on modernizing its infrastructure, including developing renewable energy, with the perspective of regional trade, investment and integration. It will continue to work to ensure a life of dignity and prosperity for its citizens, in a peaceful and cooperative region, and a more just and equitable world.