Allow me to congratulate you sincerely, Sir, on behalf of our Latin American and Caribbean region, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. Some nations, like Nicaragua, are in transition from war to peace. We are in the process of shaking off an inheritance of 50 years of right-wing dictatorship and 10 years of left-wing dictatorship. At the same time, we are moving from a centralized economy to a social market economy. Each one of these three transitions is an enormous challenge requiring fluid and timely international political and economic cooperation. Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 11 Nicaragua is a special case. My country has had to endure this triple transition. We are overcoming a post-war era, building democracy and restoring our economy’s strength and dynamism, all in the midst of a polarized society. I sincerely believe that few societies in contemporary history have had to confront so many challenges at the same time and in such difficult circumstances. The Governments and organizations that have been following closely the critical situation in which I found my country when I took office - with a gross national product similar to that of an economy of the 1940s and an unprecedented rate of hyperinflation - can easily understand the magnitude of our efforts. We need to build a democracy, reconstruct a wounded society and compete economically with the world, all while following an economic adjustment plan that leaves us no resources for social investment. There is hunger in my country. There is hatred. There are many weapons. But there is also an absolute desire to build a society at peace. Nicaragua has been a symbol of war and of hope in this decade. Nicaragua should continue to be a symbol of hope. We will achieve this only with international assistance. With great effort, we have limited inflation to 3.5 per cent annually, but with such difficulty that we were able to achieve economic growth of only 0.2 per cent in 1992, after eight years of a falling gross national product. I recognize that the international community has tried to understand the immense complexity of our process. In 1990, the General Assembly granted Nicaragua special treatment, and called upon the international community to provide us with effective and timely support. Since then, my country has fulfilled all agreements and commitments undertaken with multilateral institutions and the international community. We are engaged in creating the necessary conditions so that private, national and international investment can contribute to the economic growth of the country and hence initiate the reconstruction process and the sustained development needed by Nicaragua. After paying for oil imports and external debt, my Government has received international assistance amounting to an average of less than $12 million a year, which does not cover the costs of such a difficult and complex transition. Our economy has stabilized; however, this has been a slow process and it does not satisfy the aspirations of an impoverished people demanding the attainment, in a short period of time, of levels of well-being that they deserve. The economic problem is our greatest source of instability, because it creates tensions in the political and social environment, jeopardizing national and regional stability. If foreign aid arrives late, if strong conditions are placed on it or it becomes a political tool, as happened in 1992 and is happening now, democracy in Nicaragua could collapse. My country depends on the financial support of the international community. Our exports are equivalent to only $250 million a year, and we need $850 million to finance our imports and service our inherited external debt. I have come to the General Assembly, to this forum of fraternal nations, to ask the international community to continue helping Nicaragua. We need the United Nations to help us to maintain and to guarantee economic bilateral cooperation at current levels for my country. We need additional resources to reactivate economic production and growth, to strengthen the creation of social networks and to renew the process of conciliation. We must not forget that on 25 February 1990, to the surprise of the entire international community, we held the first free and participatory elections in all the history of my country. On that day, Nicaraguans laid down their weapons and we all celebrated the triumph of peace, aware that we were choosing the path of democracy, freedom, peace and respect for human rights. When the time came to vote, every citizen voted against decades of violence and bloodshed, and as we voted, we thought about erasing from our minds the sad images of 10 years of war, the orphans, the widows and the maimed. We voted in the determination to put an end to the tragic parade of soldiers, many of them children, combatants in a war between brothers. This was my first mandate: to generate a policy of national reconciliation; not an easy task in a society accustomed to political polarization and to confrontation. Today, three years later, I continue to be committed to pursuing national dialogue as the only viable way to solve our problems. The call to achieve this national understanding has been met with solidarity and support from countries and international organizations. In the national dialogue, we rely on the presence, which greatly enhances the validity of the process, of 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session representatives of the Presidents of Central America, a region that can envision its future only in the larger prospect of integration and unity with Nicaragua. The sincere gratitude of my people and Government goes to my Central American colleagues, to the representatives of the Secretary-General of the Organization of American States, to the Catholic Church and to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who have contributed so much to peace and reconciliation in Nicaragua. I especially wish to thank the Secretary-General of the United Nations for his support in the formation of an active group of donor countries, friends of Nicaragua, which, within the context of the United Nations, will help us identify our requirements for external cooperation and the means for channelling this necessary assistance. I believe that countries in transition from war to peace, which have signed international agreements to attain total pacification, democracy and reconstruction, should have access to a special fund to enable them to stand again on their own feet and go forward. Nicaragua and other countries in Latin America, such as Haiti and El Salvador, need exceptional treatment because we cannot compete with nations that have not suffered the pain of the political, economic and social destruction caused by war. When we appeal to the international community, we do so in the conviction that the principal efforts for the reconstruction of our country are our own responsibility as Nicaraguans, as the actors in our own development. The Government of which I am President assumes this level of responsibility in order to prevent our democracy from regressing. I reaffirm once more before the Assembly the commitment I made to the Nicaraguan nation not to rest until democracy has been consolidated. I shall continue to work to ensure that freedom of expression, assembly and association are never again restricted. My commitment to human rights is firm and unalterable. My decision to achieve the institutionalization of the armed forces in Nicaragua is irreversible. For that reason, in addition to drastically reducing my country’s army, I am introducing reforms and laws that will guarantee the total subordination of the military to civilian authority and clearly establish fixed terms of office in the upper echelons. We are in the process of building a democratic institutional structure, including a small, professional, non-partisan army at the service of the nation as a whole. Similarly, we are making great efforts to disarm civilian groups and to prevent the thousands of weapons already confiscated from being used once again to undermine Nicaragua’s democratic achievements and so undermine the regional stability of Central America. Weapons confiscated by our authorities are burned in public for all to see. In consultation with other countries of the international community, my Government has decided to host in our capital city of Managua, in May 1994, the second international conference on new and restored democracies. We want to share experiences, closely examine the structures of the new democracies and adopt proposals that will contribute to their self-betterment. The United Nations must respond positively to the changes in the world today. Nicaragua supports recognition by the United Nations of the rights of the Republic of China - Taiwan. We believe it is only right to recognize the fundamental rights of the 21 million people who live on that territory. Nicaragua firmly supports this noble initiative. Finally, I share the joy of all our countries at the historic signing of the declaration of principles between the Government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. This agreement clearly demonstrates that peace is possible when the will for dialogue and negotiation exists. It should serve as one of the great lessons of our times and a source of new hope for global peace. We Nicaraguans trust in God, in the solidarity of friendly nations and in cooperation by international organizations; the generous, fraternal, sincere hand they stretch out to us will enable the Nicaraguan people to achieve the new society of which it dreamt when it voted in our general elections on 25 February 1990. We in Nicaragua know that the century that is coming to an end leaves us some hard lessons. Yet it allows us to face with courage the great challenges that will enable us to consolidate a world society inspired by peace, freedom and progress. For that reason, on the threshold of the new century, I would like to reaffirm, in the name of the Nicaraguan people, our deep commitment to contribute to the development of a more prosperous and more just world order. That is the commitment I make to democracy and to all the peoples of the world. I warmly congratulate Ambassador Insanally, on his election as President of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. As a fellow Commonwealth member with Guyana, Australia is very pleased to serve in the Assembly under his presidency. This session of the General Assembly will deal with a particularly heavy and important agenda. It will do so at a time when hopes for, and expectations of, the United Nations have never been greater - but when, at the same time, many doubts have been raised about the capacity of the United Nations system to cope. We will be relying very much, Mr. President, on your wisdom and your experience as you preside over our deliberations. The world is a rather less happy place than we all hoped it would be after the end of the cold war. Economic and social deprivation continues to be a harsh daily reality for many of our countries and our peoples. Not even the most advanced countries are immune. The developed Western economies are limping, with low growth rates, historically high unemployment rates, increasing disparities as a result between rich and poor, and a continuing inability so far to reach agreement - either between themselves or with the rest of the world’s trading nations - about the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade liberalization measures so necessary to give a new kick-start to world trade and economic growth. In the non-Western world, rates of growth have been extraordinarily uneven. The spectacular advance in some regions, in particular East Asia, has been in stark contrast to the continuing terrible deprivation and poverty in others. Some States have simply been unable to cope with exploding internal economic, political and social problems, and for all practical purposes have collapsed, leaving the international community to respond, somehow, to the humanitarian crises that have followed so often. In security terms, the end of the cold war has seen the end of the super-Power nuclear-arms race and has relieved us of the immediate threat of nuclear devastation. We have seen major achievements in nuclear-arms reduction; and for the first time in the history of the nuclear age a comprehensive test-ban treaty, which would ban all nuclear tests in all environments for all time, seems within our reach. We could help to make it even more so by adopting by consensus a resolution in this Assembly supporting the negotiation of that treaty. A very great deal, of course, depends on the current moratorium on all nuclear testing being maintained. We in Australia very strongly support what President Clinton said in that respect this morning. This year we signed at last, after 20 years of negotiation, the chemical weapons Convention. But much remains to be done to bring this and other instruments into effective operation. And there are still too many countries unwilling to submit themselves to the disciplines, more important and more necessary now than ever, of the nuclear non-proliferation Treaty. The threat of conflicts between States has certainly not diminished with the end of the cold war. If anything, the removal of the cold-war gridlock - the discipline imposed by the super-Powers on each other and their respective supporters - has created more room than ever for States to manoeuvre. Some are beginning to do so, and some are bound to seek to do so in the future. Some of the emerging economic Powers have yet to acquire political or military profiles commensurate with their new wealth, and the process of adjustment certainly has ample potential to generate regional tensions. Should those tensions escalate into conflict, the unhappy reality is that proliferation of more sophisticated conventional weapons and proliferation of the capacity to develop weapons of mass destruction make any prospect of major regional conflict an alarming one for the world as a whole. The release of cold-war pressures has been associated with another major new development of security concern with which we are all now disturbingly familiar: the resurgence of ethno-nationalism, often taking a violent form. Some ethnic groups are being prepared to pursue their claims for self-determination within the framework of existing States, arguing essentially for minority human rights protection - claims of right which, on first principles, we should all be prepared to acknowledge and support. But many other such groups have made clear that they will be satisfied by nothing less than their nations becoming States, causing the fragmentation of existing States in the process, and creating some very real dilemmas for the international community as a result. Again, the proliferating availability of weaponry of every degree of sophistication has given a sharp new edge to these concerns. Looking out upon a world with all these characteristics, it is easy to be pessimistic and fatalistic. But I do not think we should retreat into that habit of mind. For everything that has gone wrong over the last few years, there is something else that has gone right. To match against the awful continuing tragedy in the former Yugoslavia, we have, for example, this month’s peace agreement in the Middle East - of course, only the first step in what remains a long journey, but an enormously encouraging one notwithstanding. And to match against the continuing chaos and uncertainty in Somalia, and the at best very limited success of the United Nations operation there, we have now the unquestioned success of the United Nations operation in Cambodia - and the end at last to more than 20 years of what has been a real twentieth-century tragedy involving bloody war, civil war, genocide, invasion and civil war again. A terrible conflict continues in Angola, but peace is at hand at last in Mozambique; and in South Africa the final death of apartheid is imminent, as testified last week in this place by Nelson Mandela. Military regimes have given way to democratic ones throughout Latin America. Many problems remain to be solved in the former Soviet Union, but Governments that can credibly claim to reflect the will of their peoples are in place throughout Central and Eastern Europe. The military regime in Myanmar, or Burma, continues to resist the obvious mood of its people for liberty and democracy, but elsewhere in the region traditionally monolithic government structures - driven in many cases by economic imperatives - are beginning to show signs of flexibility and responsiveness. But while I do not believe that we should be unduly pessimistic or fatalistic about the condition of the world around us, nor can we afford to be complacent. There is much more that we can and should be doing to reinforce and strengthen the international community’s capacity to govern itself better, and in particular to better guarantee the maintenance of peace and security in the post-cold-war world. It is on this subject - the role of the United Nations and the international community generally in securing peace in the world of the 1990s and beyond that I want specifically to focus my remarks today. A little over a year ago, following a unique meeting of the Security Council, Secretary-General Boutros-Ghali published 'An Agenda for Peace'. It was and remains a remarkable document, one which poses most of the questions we need to address if we are to have a fair chance of maintaining international peace and security in the world of today and the foreseeable future. Since that time, a worldwide debate has taken place on the issues described in 'An Agenda for Peace', which has involved not only Governments and officials, but has reached out to embrace Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 25 universities, foundations, non-governmental organizations and many organs of the public media as well. This debate generated resolutions at the last session of the General Assembly, several worthwhile changes to some procedures and structures within the Secretariat, and the prospect of further changes to come. It cannot be said, however, that the issues raised by 'An Agenda for Peace' are now all settled, either in theory or in practice. We still do not have even a completely clear and consistent shared vocabulary to define the ways in which it is possible for the United Nations and other organs of the international community to respond to security problems: 'peacemaking', for example, means different things still to different people; so do 'preventive diplomacy' and 'peace building'; the conceptual boundary between 'peace-keeping' on the one hand and 'peace enforcement' on the other is not drawn in the same way by everyone who uses these terms. Nor do we seem yet to have clear and universal agreement even as to the kind of problems which justify a security response by the international community. Should we recognize, for example, a humanitarian right of intervention and, if so, in what circumstances and to what extent? When does an economic or social problem become the kind of security problem which justifies the mobilization of the response strategies spelt out in Chapters VI and VII of the United Nations Charter? Even when it comes to applying a very familiar response to a new problem - for example, establishing a peace-keeping operation like the 30 which have now been initiated since 1946 - there does not yet seem to have been developed a commonly accepted check list of criteria to guide decision-makers in determining when precisely the operation should be set in train, how it should be structured, managed and resourced, or how long it should continue. Every situation, of course, has its own characteristics, but is it really necessary for decisions on these matters by the Security Council or others to be made on so evidently ad hoc a basis? When it comes to thinking about how the United Nations - and others in the international community, including regional organizations - might best be structured, organized, managed and funded to most effectively address the international peace and security agenda, it is not clear to me that we have yet heard the last word in that debate. An extraordinary amount has been achieved in the tumultuous period since 1989 in responding to the new demands and challenges that have been unceasingly hurled at the United Nations, but a good deal more remains to be done if the United Nations in particular, the only fully empowered body with global membership that we have, is to be as effective as we would all want it to be. It is much easier, of course, to ask all these questions than to answer them. Identifying problems is always easier than defining acceptable solutions. But I believe that we all have a responsibility to each other and the international community to try to answer these questions and to keep on working away at the answers until we find common ground. So it is in that spirit that I put before the Assembly today a detailed study of these questions, which tries to answer them in a way which might help us find a little more of that common ground. The study, in the form of a book entitled Cooperating for Peace, has been distributed, I hope, to delegations as I speak. I do not pretend for a moment that this says the last word on any of the enormously complex and sensitive issues with which it deals. It is simply an Australian contribution to the debate which was so thoughtfully and constructively initiated by the Secretary-General last year. The study seeks to do three things in particular. First, it suggests ways of bringing a little more clarity - to the extent this is presently lacking - into the concepts and vocabulary that we use in defining security problems, defining possible responses and matching responses to problems. Secondly, it suggests specific criteria that might be applied by decision-makers in deciding what, if any, response is appropriate to a particular new security problem. And, thirdly, it suggests a priority list of areas in which further United Nations reform might usefully be pursued. In the short time that remains to me I shall try to give a quick, outline sketch of what we are trying to say in each of these respects. First of all, on the issue of concepts and terminology, it is perhaps worth making the point at the outset that this is not just something for academics to wrangle about. It matters in practice. If decision-makers do not share the same basic way of looking at issues and the same basic vocabulary in defining them, there is a very real risk that they will talk past each other - or, at the very least, find it very much harder to produce responses which are timely, properly graduated, effective in practice, affordable and broadly consistent from one case to the next. Just as importantly, the choice of words can sometimes significantly influence the way in which we think about matters of substance. To give just one example: If we use, as many people still do, the expression 'peace-making' to describe military enforcement action, then, simply because this is such an innocuous and constructive sounding expression, there is a danger that we may over time become a little more relaxed than we should be about taking such action. It is much better, I suggest, to confine the expression 'peace-making' to diplomatic-type activity to resolve conflict and to reserve the expression 'peace enforcement' to describe the always dangerous, always messy, and what should always be the last-resort, activity of applying military force. In the study we define security problems, in more or less escalating order of seriousness, as 'emerging threats', 'disputes', 'armed conflicts' and 'other major security crises.' We make the point that security is not strictly or solely a military concept and that threats to security, as many speakers in the general debate have already said, can these days come very much from factors such as exploding population pressures, environmental degradation, mass involuntary movements of people and the illicit narcotics trade, among other things. Equally, we define possible responses to security problems, again in escalating order of severity, in terms of 'peace- building,' 'preventive diplomacy,' 'preventive deployment,' 'peace- making,' 'peace-keeping,' 'sanctions' and 'peace enforcement.' We are at pains to emphasize that it is only as a last resort that security solutions should be seen as coming out of the barrel of a gun. We give much more emphasis than has been common elsewhere to the concept of 'peace-building,' which we define in the study as extending not just to post-conflict economic development and institution-building strategies, but to a whole variety of preventive strategies, both within particular countries and in the form of international treaty-type régimes addressing both military and non-military threats to security. In defining criteria for embarking on peace operations - whether peace-keeping or peace enforcement - the most crucial consideration is that there be a clearminded focus on the objectives of the exercise and the likely effectiveness of the operation in achieving those objectives. No operations of this kind should ever be embarked upon for the sake of being seen to be doing something. Although it is not always possible to analyse or predict with certainty, it should always be possible to avoid embarking on operations which are manifestly likely to be ineffective and which, as such, put at risk the most crucial United Nations resource of all, its credibility. In the case of peace-keeping we suggest in Cooperating for Peace that there are seven basic conditions for ensuring an effective operation: clear and achievable goals; adequate resources; close coordination of peace-keeping with any ongoing peacemaking activity; a capacity to be and to be seen to be absolutely impartial as between the parties who have been in conflict; a significant degree of local support for the peace-keepers; evident support for the operation from external Powers that may have been involved previously in supporting one side or the other; and a 'signposted exit', that is, a clearly designated termination point, or set of termination criteria. When it comes to peace-enforcement operations, our suggested criteria for determining involvement are quite complex and vary according to whether one is talking about an operation in response to cross-border aggression, as with Iraq and Kuwait; about one in support of peace-keeping operations, the basic rationale for United Nations involvement in Bosnia-Herzegovina; or about peace enforcement in support of humanitarian objectives, as in Somalia. Without going into all the necessary detail now, I think the basic considerations always come down to the following: widespread international support; clear and achievable goals; adequate total resources to meet those goals; and clearly defined termination or review points. If the United Nations is to play with maximum effectiveness the central role it needs to play in maintaining international peace and security, then further change, further reform in the United Nations system, really is necessary. Some of that change is bound to be painful for some people, but that is the way of change. Putting it simply and starkly: Unless the United Nations develops a comprehensive capacity to address today’s and tomorrow’s problems - not yesterday’s - there is a very real risk of the United Nations gradually losing, with Governments and peoples around the world, the credibility it needs to survive. In the study we identify a number of priority areas for change. The first is to restructure the Secretariat to ensure that the Secretary-General has an effective chain of command exercising authority over major United Nations operations and to consolidate and coordinate in a more orderly and manageable way the present sprawl of departments and agencies. We support the proposal that the Secretary-General create a new senior structure at United Nations Headquarters under which he would have four Deputy Secretaries-General responsible, respectively, for peace and security, economic and social operations, humanitarian operations and administration and management. Each such Deputy Secretary-General would have full executive responsibility for the operational issues falling within his or her portfolio, subject only to direction by the Secretary-General. This would be a big change, and it is not the first time it has been proposed, but it is the one that, more than anything else, would create the conditions for more orderly and effective management throughout the United Nations system. The second priority need is to resolve once and for all the United Nations critical funding problem. Various adventurous ideas have been canvassed for external funding - money coming from sources other than Member States - and we suggest that at least one of those ideas, namely, a small levy on international airline travel, be further explored. But overwhelmingly, of course, the problem is one that has been created by Member States, including the richest of our number, and it is entirely within our ability to resolve by meeting our assessed contributions for regular budgets and peace operations in full and on time. It is an abuse of good management principles and of basic common sense to be forcing the Secretary-General to spend so much of his time pleading for debts to be honoured. In that respect I echo the sentiments expressed a few minutes ago by Mrs. Brundtland. If the bulk of current arrears were to be paid by the end of this year, the United Nations finances would be in a quite healthy position, with the Working Capital Fund, the Peace- keeping Reserve Fund and the Special Account all replenished and the Organization in a position to meet all outstanding troop-contribution costs. The third priority is to improve the management of peace operations, both at Headquarters and in the field. Some very significant and useful steps have already been taken in this regard in the context of the creation of the new Department of Peace-keeping Operations, but more remains to be done, including in particular the development over time of a properly constituted General Staff to plan and manage the military dimensions of such operations. The fourth priority is to give special attention to the machinery of preventive diplomacy, again both at Headquarters and in the field. These efforts have been largely ad hoc in the past, although the Department of Political Affairs is gradually building a core of appropriate expertise. Quite apart from anything else, there is an overwhelming cost advantage in doing more to stop disputes becoming armed conflicts. We estimate the cost of keeping 100 well-qualified, experienced practitioners of preventive diplomacy in the field for a year to be $21 million; compare that with this year’s peace operations budget of $3.7 billion - and compare it, moreover, with the $70 billion that it is estimated to have cost the United Nations coalition to fight the six-week Gulf war. The fifth priority is to rethink the whole system of humanitarian relief coordination. Despite advances that have been made with the creation of the Department of Humanitarian Affairs, we think some basic structural problems remain. We propose that they be addressed in a radical way by the creation of a new disaster-response agency, combining the relief and basic rehabilitation functions of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), and the World Food Programme (WFP), which would work in turn directly to the suggested Deputy Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs. The sixth priority, as we see it, is to take various steps to raise the profile within the United Nations system of peace-building. This is, after all, the point of intersection between the Organization’s peace and security role and its economic and social role, and it should be given recognition and emphasis as such. The pursuit of peace and security has to include the satisfaction of basic human needs, as well as the direct prevention, containment and settlement of armed conflict. Much of the United Nations system is in fact already concerned with peace- building in the form of activities such as international law-making, disarmament, economic and social advancement, sustainable development, democratization and institution building. But much more can be done, organizationally, to link these activities together, to recognize their security significance, and to ensure that they are pursued with a sense of common purpose. The remaining priority, a very large subject in itself, as we all know, is to regenerate the Security Council - not because it is now working ineffectively, but because its manifest lack of representativeness is beginning to impact upon its legitimacy. The Security Council is the linchpin of the whole United Nations peace and security system, and it is in no one’s interest that its credibility should be allowed to gradually erode. The outstanding questions about the size and shape of the Council should certainly be resolved by the time of the United Nations fiftieth anniversary in 1995. This, indeed, remains an ideal target date for the achievement of a whole range of necessary organizational reforms. Running right through the study - and underlying all the suggestions we have been making about structure and process - is a single sustaining idea, that of cooperative security. This embraces two perhaps rather more familiar ideas, common security and collective security. But the overall flavour of cooperative security can perhaps best be captured by describing it, in a little more detail, as an approach that emphasizes reassurance rather than deterrence; that is inclusive rather than exclusive; that favours multilateralism over unilateralism or bilateralism; that does not rank military solutions over non-military ones; that assumes that States are the principal actors in the security system, but also accepts that non-State actors have an important role to play; that does not particularly emphasize the creation of formal security institutions but does not reject them either; and that above all stresses the value of creating habits of dialogue. A good deal of the spirit of cooperative security is in fact to be found in the Charter of the United Nations. Paragraph 4 of Article 1, a provision much neglected in the past, designates the United Nations as a 'centre for harmonizing the actions of nations' - not the sentiments of nations, but the actions of nations. In Articles 55 and 56 Member States pledge themselves to create the 'conditions of stability and well-being which are necessary for peaceful and friendly relations among nations'. Underscored in that context are the promotion of higher standards of living, the solution of economic and social problems and respect for human rights. Too often during the cold war we looked past these obligations and concerns, because we were preoccupied with military means of survival. But the threats that concerned us then no longer exist; and what was written in San Francisco, before the cold war froze our capacity to deal with many other kinds of threats to security, should now be seen as a compelling guide. Our survival in the 1990s and beyond will depend on our developing a new understanding of what constitutes security and what contributes to it. It will depend on our capacity to think clearly about how to react to new security problems as they arise. It will depend on our willingness to rethink and to reshape our institutions, including the United Nations, so that they can cope with new realities. But, above all, it will depend on our all developing and sustaining a real commitment to cooperating for peace. On behalf of the delegation of the United Arab Emirates, it gives me great pleasure to extend to you our sincere congratulations on your election as President of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. We are fully confident that your vast experience in the area of international relations will enhance the Organization’s role and promote its goals. I also wish to express our appreciation of the tireless efforts undertaken by your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, in his judicious and capable management of the previous session. It also gives me great pleasure to extend our sincere thanks to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, for his dedication to the important responsibilities with which he has been entrusted and to commend his efforts aimed at enhancing the Organization’s role in addressing the issues that concern the international community and in devising peaceful and just solutions to the problems of development and peace as well as the issues involved in maintaining regional and international security. I should like also to welcome the countries that have acceded recently to the membership of the Organization and to wish them success and prosperity. There is no doubt that their presence among us accentuates further the universality of the United Nations and will contribute positively to the realization of our common goals and interests in consonance with the Charter. On this occasion, I should like, on behalf of the people and Government of the United Arab Emirates, to extend our sincere condolences and profound sympathy to the people and Government of friendly India over the tragic loss of thousands of lives as a result of the recent earthquake. This forty-eighth session of the General Assembly is convened against the backdrop of new political realities that have wrought dramatic changes in both regional and international relations. The most notable changes have been the diminished threat of nuclear war and an end to the problems that had plagued the international community since the creation of the United Nations as a result of the era of bipolarity and competition over spheres of influence. Although these changes have had a positive effect, the international arena has witnessed several new regional conflicts that have been generated by ethnic bigotry, 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session religious fanaticism, expansionist tendencies and the spread of the phenomenon of terrorism, which is still sweeping over some parts of the world and which continues to pose a threat to peace and security at the regional and international levels. Given the existence of such a situation, it is incumbent on the international community as a whole to address these problems and to find effective solutions thereto in the interests of stability, development and abiding peace and in order to lay the foundations of the new world order to which all the countries of the world aspire so that they may be able to face up to the many major challenges that have come to confront humanity as a whole. The role and responsibilities of the United Nations and especially those of the Security Council have expanded, since the end of the cold war, particularly in the areas of development and the maintenance of international peace and security. There is no doubt that the adoption by the General Assembly of the 'Agenda for Peace' and other measures aimed at restructuring and revitalizing the Organization in the areas of economic and social development constitute a constructive, positive step towards the shouldering by the international community of its immense responsibilities in this regard. This will enhance the credibility of the United Nations and increase its ability to become a truly effective multi-purpose instrument in dealing with existing international issues. We believe that within the new context of international relations, the restructuring and reform of the United Nations should embrace the Security Council as the organ responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security. In restructuring the Council, the principle of equitable geographical representation of all regional groups should be taken into consideration so that it may reflect the changes and transformations that have taken place in the international political arena. Those changes and transformations call for a new approach in addressing the issues of peace, security and development at the international level. Such an approach should stem from a sound understanding of the realities of an interdependent world so that it may enable the international community to find solutions that would go to the roots of old and new problems alike. In this regard, we wish to stress that the issues of peacemaking and peace-keeping at both the regional and international levels in the context of preventive diplomacy should be addressed in a manner that takes into consideration the historical, geographical, political, social and cultural characteristics of each and every State. In so doing, the international community should keep in view the importance of coordination and cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations, in the search for peaceful and commonly agreed solutions for existing conflicts and disputes, on the basis of international legality and the Charter of the United Nations. The recent events in the Gulf in the wake of the liberation of the sister State of Kuwait have produced a new political reality which reinforced the belief in the importance of settling disputes by negotiation and other peaceful means as prescribed by the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of international law, in the interests of building mutual trust and consolidating peace and security, as well as promoting stability, coexistence and good-neighbourliness between the States of the region. Given our adherence to these principles in our relations with other States both regionally and internationally, the United Arab Emirates has declared its readiness and sincere desire to conduct a direct dialogue with the Islamic Republic of Iran with regard to Iran’s occupation in 1971 of the three islands of Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa, which belong to the United Arab Emirates. From this rostrum, where many peace calls have been made, we appeal once again to the Islamic Republic of Iran to respond positively to our call for dialogue and to start negotiating an end to this occupation and to return the three islands to the sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates. The United Arab Emirates works jointly with other States members of the Gulf Cooperation Council, within a framework of cooperation and solidarity in defining its policies and its regional and international relations on the basis of existing geographic, political and economic realities, and in a manner that is consistent with its national interests and its Arab and Muslim identity. In their recent Summit meeting held in Abu Dhabi in December 1992, the leaders of the Gulf Cooperation Council affirmed the importance of resorting to dialogue and negotiation as a principal instrumentality for settling disputes between States by peaceful means, in consonance with the tenets of Islamic Sharia as well as the commitment of the Gulf Cooperation Council to the Charter of the United Nations and to the norms and principles of international law. Mrs. Osode (Liberia), Vice-President, took the Chair. The Gulf Cooperation Council also affirms the importance of respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States, and non-interference in their internal affairs. We believe that every State is entitled to choose its own political system and to exercise sovereignty over its Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993 15 natural resources in line with its development objectives and environmental policies. We reject the use of force, or the threat of the use of force as a means of settling disputes. We hold that resorting to peaceful means in the settlement of disputes would enable the States involved to harness their resources in the interests of social and economic development. The Iraqi regime still pursues a policy of procrastination with regard to the implementation of all relevant Security Council resolutions. In view of this, the international community must oblige that regime to implement those resolutions to respect the political system, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the State of Kuwait and to refrain from reiterating its expansionist aims. Security Council resolution 833 (1993) relating to the demarcation of boundaries between Kuwait and Iraq, guarantees the inviolability of the international boundaries separating the two countries in accordance with Chapter VII of the Charter. The resolution is a positive step and a fundamental international contribution towards achieving regional and international peace and stability. We also urge the international community to pressure the Iraqi regime to abide by international humanitarian law and release immediately all Kuwaiti and non-Kuwaiti prisoners of war and detainees. An end should be put to this human tragedy which violates the basic norms of international humanitarian law. At the same time, we should like to emphasize that it is imperative to maintain the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq and declare that the suffering and hardships endured by the Iraqi people are the responsibility of the Iraqi regime because of its refusal to implement fully all relevant Security Council resolutions. The positive international developments resulting from the end of bipolarity and the collapse of military alliances were bound to produce their effects in our Arab region. Today, dialogue and cooperation between the big Powers, and the peaceful settlement of regional disputes, have replaced the confrontations of bipolarity. The United Arab Emirates welcomed the convening of the Madrid Peace Conference and the holding of bilateral negotiations. It also welcomed the multilateral negotiations in which it participated. Likewise, it welcomed the declaration of principles concluded between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel as a positive beginning and a first step towards a just, comprehensive and durable settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict and the Question of Palestine, on the basis of international legality as reflected in the relevant United Nations resolutions, most notably Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), as well as the 'land for peace' principle. Such a settlement should enable the Palestinian people to exercise their national inalienable rights, including the right of self-determination, and bring about a total Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Arab territories, including the Holy City of Jerusalem and the Syrian Golan. We support the sustained efforts undertaken by the Lebanese Government to extend its national sovereignty over all the Lebanese national soil. In this regard, we call for the full implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978). This will contribute to the consolidation of peace and stability and to the creation of the conditions necessary for the social and economic development of the States and peoples of the region. My country is extremely concerned over the deterioration of the security situation in the sister State of Somalia, which has resulted in many injuries and fatalities. We support the efforts undertaken by the United Nations and regional organizations aimed at alleviating the suffering of the people of Somalia and creating a secure environment conducive to the continuation of aid and humanitarian relief programmes and the rebuilding of national infrastructures, particularly those relating to social and economic development. In view of the strong historical ties between our people and the people of Somalia, the United Arab Emirates has extended humanitarian and financial assistance to that country, in addition to its participation in United Nations peace-keeping forces. We sincerely hope that all Somali factions, taking into account the interests of the people of Somalia, will cooperate, unite and reconcile in order to facilitate the United Nations mission in Somalia and resume negotiations and dialogue for the sake of achieving stability, peace and security in that country. The people and Government of the United Arab Emirates have followed with deep sorrow the tragedy that has beset the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina for well over 18 months. My country has also condemned the acts of killing, displacement, ethnic cleansing, genocide and rape perpetrated by Bosnian Serbs and Bosnian Croats who are supported by the regular army of Serbia and Montenegro. The victims of such atrocities have been largely the Bosnian Muslims. My country supports the Security Council and General Assembly resolutions relating to the trial and 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session punishment of the perpetrators of war crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The implementation of these resolutions will go a long way towards demonstrating that the international community honours its obligations and that the United Nations lives up to the Charter and principles of international law. The partition plan recently proposed in the Geneva talks for the settlement of the dispute in Bosnia and Herzegovina lacks fairness and justice because it legitimizes aggression and 'ethnic cleansing' and rewards the aggressors by allowing them to annex the territories they have conquered by force. In the face of this tragic situation, the international community bears the historical and moral responsibility of defending a State Member of the United Nations and preserving its independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and enabling it to exercise its legitimate right of self-defence. The progress recently achieved in the recent negotiations between the political parties of South Africa, which culminated in a decision to form the Transitional Executive Council, represents a positive step towards establishing an interim Government and finalizing the arrangements for the elections to be held early next year. This progress may also be a significant step towards the formulation of a permanent constitution, which would lead to the establishment of a democratic and a united State free of racial discrimination. One of the great challenges that still face the international community is the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, particularly nuclear weapons. This poses a grave threat to international peace and security; hence, it is the responsibility of the international community to encourage the adoption of confidence-building measures on the regional and international levels to create a secure international environment. We believe that the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty is the key to strengthening all international efforts and regional initiatives aimed at preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction and removing the dangers that continue to threaten both regional and international peace and security. In this regard, we welcome the positive steps recently taken in the field of disarmament, including the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, which was signed by the United Arab Emirates, as well as by a majority of the States of the world. We should also like to reaffirm the importance of establishing zones free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, including the Middle East. Despite the progress achieved in the case of certain international political and social problems, we are yet to witness any noticeable improvement in the international economic environment. The gap between North and South is getting increasingly wider, and living conditions in many developing countries are constantly deteriorating under the heavy burden of foreign debt, the continuing decline in the price of commodities, and the terms of trade as well as the negative impact of protectionist policies on those countries’ balances of payments. Given this situation, it has become the collective responsibility of the international community to restructure the existing international economic relations in a manner that would ensure effective cooperation in promoting economic development in many countries, especially in the developing world, and thereby to improve their living conditions. Economic cooperation has expanded to new horizons, especially in the areas of development and environment. That was underscored by the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly through the creation of the high-level Commission on Sustainable Development. This indicated that the international community is well aware of the nature of existing international problems and the importance of regional and international cooperation in achieving the goals of peace and development. The member States of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) have played an active role in the field of regional and international economic cooperation through the constructive and practical positions they have adopted and through their contributions and assistance to the developmental efforts of many third world countries. This stance stems from the Gulf Cooperation Council countries’ belief in the principles of economic cooperation between States, and especially with the sisterly Arab and Islamic States. When measured against the gross national product, the percentage of aid extended by the GCC countries to developing countries is greater than that provided by the developed countries, even though the economies of the GCC countries are based primarily on oil, a depletable resource. These contributions have been made despite the need of all our countries to devote all their energies to the process of rebuilding and maintaining their social and economic infrastructures that have been adversely affected by the wars and disputes of the last two decades. The spirit of tolerance and commitment to human values and to the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter should guide us on the road to the better Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993 17 future that we all aspire after - a future that looks more attainable than ever before, in view of the regional and international changes that have taken place over the past few years. All States, big and small, developed and developing, must seize this historic opportunity to build on the momentum of change in order that peaceful dialogue may prevail, consolidating the foundations of regional and international peace and security and peaceful coexistence. The direction that international relations have taken today, although to some extent decided upon by States, reflects, none the less, the limited ability of States to bring the condition of the world into line with the new international social realities. If the problems that face the international community because of this international social dynamic are to be resolved they must be tackled through collective, concerted and appropriate action that goes beyond the national framework. My country is happy that there is among States a growing awareness of these needs. We welcome this new direction as the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly begins. But before stating my delegation’s views about how to encourage States to share this new approach - and as we work in this direction we shall be calling on you, Sir, to demonstrate your great qualities - we should like to extend to you the warm congratulations of the Central African Republic on your election as President of the General Assembly. We pledge to you our full cooperation, and express the hope that your work will be crowned with success. The wisdom and spirit of compromise with which your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, conducted the proceedings at the last session earned the full appreciation of my delegation. The renewed authority of our Organization is due, of course, to the determination of Member States but also to the conviction and methodical, rational and pragmatic action of the Secretary-General, who has always, and in all circumstances, endeavoured to work for the purposes and principles of the Organization. To Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali we pledge the renewed support of the Central African Republic. My delegation also welcomes the admission to our Organization of the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Eritrea, the Principality of Monaco, the Principality of Andorra and The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Their admission fulfils the oft-expressed desire of the international community to see all the countries of the world as Members of our Organization and thus strengthen its universal character. All States, individually and collectively, must come together to defend the purposes and principles of the United Nations. It is unacceptable for some States still to be excluded. For this reason, in the view of the delegation of the Central African Republic, today it is important that the place of the Republic of China in our Organization be reconsidered. The immense progress made by the Republic of China in Taiwan in the political, economic and social spheres has now earned it the right to resume its place here so that it can contribute, better than it did in the past, to the flourishing of international cooperation through its active participation in the United Nations system. The developments in the international arena we are witnessing today arise from the process of transformation that the world has undergone, especially in the last few years. These transformations affect all areas of international life, and, fortunately, States are taking them into account as they manage their international relations, which, to a large extent, determine the direction our world takes. There is also an emerging tendency for problems to have world-wide effects, prompting States to become the guardians of world interests. This phenomenon is clearly illustrated in cooperation and concerted action among States in the spirit suggested by our Secretary-General in 'An Agenda for Peace' in efforts to contribute to laying the foundation for real peace in the world. Indeed, notwithstanding certain reflexive and automatic responses the relics of the cold-war conditions, States today are increasingly determined to do what they can, on the foundation of the principles of the United Nations and in cooperation with the United Nations, in order, if not to eliminate, at least try, to reduce prevailing tensions in other areas of the world. My delegation is happy that this approach has now made it possible for the situation to evolve as it has in Cambodia, South Africa - where the Central African Republic supports the appeal by the President of the African National Congress (ANC), Mr. Nelson Mandela, to lift sanctions against South Africa - and, finally, in the Middle East, in respect of which my country pays a hearty tribute to Mr. Yasser Arafat and Mr. Yitzhak Rabin for their courage, vision and lucidity in signing recently the historic accord on mutual recognition. This same desire for cooperation is needed in order to bring about a positive and speedy settlement of the problems of the former Yugoslavia, Western Sahara, Angola and Somalia. The international gatherings recently held in Vienna and Geneva, while making it possible to take the measure of the sad reality of human-rights violations throughout the world, provided at the same time an opportunity for States to reaffirm the need for concerted international action with a view to guaranteeing more securely these values. In addition, since the Rio Conference, States have shown greater interest in the question of the environment, and they have now made Agenda 21 a real platform for cooperation in this area, which will make it easier to ensure better 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session protection of the common heritage of mankind while maintaining conditions for sustainable development. This tendency for problems to have world-wide effects, if systematically managed, would usher in a new era, that of the triumph of multilateralism, an era in which the United Nations would bring its authority to bear - as it is trying, with varying degrees of success, to do today in certain peace-keeping operations - in other areas of cooperation, such as cooperation for development. Inadequacies in the area of cooperation are in sharp contrast to the declared determination of States to contribute to maintaining balance in the world in the post-cold-war period. It is, then, desirable that real solidarity be cultivated among Member States, which might induce developed countries to support efforts for development in developing countries, in particular in Africa. The economic condition of these countries is constantly deteriorating from year to year, and they have often come before this and other bodies to bring their problems to the attention of the international community, whose response has, unfortunately, not removed any of the obstacles to those countries’ development. Those obstacles are, in short, the continuing decline of prices of commodities, the heavy debt burden and debt-servicing, negative net financial flows and strengthened protectionism. If these factors persist, there is no doubt that the African countries will have increasing difficulty in overcoming their situation. But these countries must not be excluded from development, and everything must be done to encourage their efforts at development. The duty of solidarity calls for dialogue and cooperation between the developed countries and the developing countries in order to ensure fairer remuneration for commodities and an easing of the debt burden and debt- servicing. Coordinating efforts at the level of the United Nations system, among international economic and financial institutions and organizations and among non-governmental organizations is required to improve the situation of the developing countries. Such activity would be in keeping with the new spirit that characterizes international relations today and that has made it possible for some developed countries to support the democratization process that has begun in some of our countries, including my own. I should like, in this regard, to express our deep gratitude to all the countries and institutions that have so kindly provided us with material and financial support and sent international observers to help the cause of democracy in the Central African Republic. We hope we shall continue to enjoy their concerned assistance in our endeavour to lay the foundation of our young democracy, and, from this rostrum, I wish to appeal for understanding. My delegation believes that the time has come to bring about genuine democratization in the decision-making bodies of the United Nations, the Security Council in particular, the membership of which must be adapted to the new realities of the world. The great developments in science and technology have today reduced our world to a global village where each and every one of us must feel directly affected by all the problems that exist on the various levels of international life. The trend towards the globalization of problems that has become evident as a result of this ought to be maintained so that States can take up the challenge of defending peace by promoting the development of human rights. Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993 17 For the Central African Republic, this challenge can be successfully taken up if we fully respect the principles of the United Nations. Let me begin by extending, on behalf of the people and Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, our most heartfelt condolences to the peoples and Governments of both Venezuela and India, which have recently been hit severely by the tragedy of disaster. It is our hope that both countries, through the will and spirit of their peoples, will recover quickly. May we also extend our sympathies to those countries and families that have lost loved ones under the United Nations flag in Bosnia and Herzegovina in attempting to carry out their mission of peace and humanity. Indeed, our sympathies go out to all families of United Nations personnel in all peace-keeping missions throughout the globe who have made the ultimate sacrifice in the name of the United Nations Charter. We should also like to congratulate the Palestinian and Israeli people on their recent efforts towards peace. We are likewise happy to see the great strides towards democracy being made in South Africa. Mr. President, it is my pleasure and privilege to extend to you our sincerest congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. Your election to this high office reaffirms the importance of the role that small States play in the family of nations. We should also like to extend our appreciation to your distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stojan Ganev, our Balkan colleague, for conducting the deliberations of this body with great expertise and commitment. The Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is pleased to welcome the Organization’s newest Members: Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, Monaco, the Republic of Macedonia and the Slovak Republic. We are confident that these Members will uphold the principles of the United Nations Charter. The international community has neither a definite policy nor a clear plan of political action that would facilitate a transition from the Communist structures that have been in power for 50 years to concepts based on freedom and democracy. We believe that it is impossible to find solutions for either global or local conflicts unless a clear stand is taken on the overall question of what the post-Communist heritage is to be. The negative aspects of this problem have been fully illustrated in the case of my country. It is obvious that the remaining forces of the Communist potential for aggression have been exercised against us and that an extirpation of chances for democratic development has been perpetrated before the eyes of Europe, America and the whole world. This act is being carried out entirely by force, in forms ranging from aggression and mass murder of civilians to destruction of all traces of civilization and culture and the extermination of whole nations by the barbaric tactics of burned and destroyed land. Simultaneously with this unprecedented violence, an experiment in political vivisection is being carried out against our country. It is being carried out by an international community that, in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, has obviously been testing various models for the post-Communist State. The experiment, unfortunately, is being performed in vivo by testing various hypotheses on our living national and governmental organism. In this experiment, our people are dying, and so is our country and our State. The first experiment was performed by the London Conference. This concept, which sought to stop the aggression, was abandoned without a single attempt to implement it; and this only intensified the war on our soil. This was followed by an attempt to find a solution by means of constitutional, legal and political reform to a crisis that was becoming ever deeper. This project, known as the Vance-Owen plan, no one even attempted to implement. It was abandoned only to be replaced by a new one, which is based on the false thesis that what we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a civil war between the three peoples and that territorial partition is therefore the only solution. But this plan is being fulfilled neither with respect to the idea that the partition of the land should be carried out in accordance with the criterion of ethnic majority, nor with respect to the basic intention of bringing about peace. As a result, the uncontrollable unfolding of events will continue, and will cause nothing but new suffering for our people. Now the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina are being asked to choose between a just, defensive war and an unjust peace. The war, if continued, is likely to cause further suffering for our people and the further destruction of our nation. It could mean the death of thousands more. The unjust peace plan is flawed because it is based upon the repugnant and historically failed concept of ethnic partition and apartheid. The flaw is compounded by the fact that even the partition is unfair, since it seeks to satisfy the aggressor’s appetite for an inequitably large share at the expense of the victim. However, the flaws in the so-called peace plan being forced upon us are not merely philosophical. First, any plan that legitimizes genocide and promotes ethnic partition will most likely sow the seeds for new aggression and fuel the fires of retribution. Secondly, any peace that does not address the true causes of war will, at best, offer only temporary, remedial relief rather than promoting the healing that is essential. Finally, any peace plan that makes no provision for a viable Bosnian State, that does not address even the most basic needs of the victim and that does not provide the necessary measures for real implementation and durability is, in the end, not a plan for real peace. Last week’s provisional acceptance by the Bosnian Parliament of the peace proposals is dependent on the same minimal adjustments that we have consistently held to be necessary for a durable peace. These adjustments are the following: First, the Bosnian Republic within the proposed Union of the Republics of Bosnia and Herzegovina must be viable geographically, economically, politically and defensively. Secondly, the aggressor forces must surrender control of the territories where they have slaughtered and expelled civilian populations so that the Bosnians can return to their homes. Well over half a million refugees would find it impossible to return to villages, towns and cities from which they were expelled if Serbian forces that committed murder, rape and torture were to continue to control those territories. There is the option that some of those territories could be temporarily administered by international peace-keeping forces. Thirdly, the final agreement must contain comprehensive and specific guarantees concerning its implementation from those nations and regional organizations that will actually be enforcing the peace. Such guarantees must be an integral part of the peace accords and cannot be delayed until a later date. Otherwise, we risk adopting another agreement or commitment that will, like so many others previously, become worthless for peace and of value only to further legitimize the aggressor. Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 3 Fourthly, in the event that the international community is not successful in implementing the peace plan, then we must be allowed to arm and defend ourselves. Consistent with its authority and unavoidable responsibility, the Security Council should evaluate the plan prepared by Lord Owen and Mr. Stoltenberg to determine its consistency or inconsistency with the United Nations Charter and numerous resolutions previously adopted by the Council. The Council cannot escape its responsibilities and the inherent inconsistencies by hiding behind the frequently repeated excuse that it will accept whatever all the parties agree to, when one party, the victim, is under the pressure of the very real threat of genocide. As further negotiations on these matters continue, the mediation team should be enlarged to include a representative of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), which will most likely be the agent of enforcement. This would add a degree of clarity, direction and credibility to the talks that has been lacking so far. Now, let me bring to the Assembly’s attention the impending humanitarian tragedy unfolding in my country. On behalf of all Bosnians, I must first thank the United Nations and all the friendly Governments, private institutions and heroic individuals that have helped provide humanitarian assistance in Bosnia. We profoundly appreciate the efforts that have so far saved many lives. But with the coming of winter, more help will be needed if our wounded and malnourished population is to avoid finally succumbing to starvation, disease and exposure. In this effort it is essential that the international community and its most capable members and relevant regional organizations do the following: first, take steps to encourage and enforce the maintenance of the cease-fires recently agreed to by all the relevant forces; secondly, take steps, as envisioned in several Security Council resolutions, to stop the blockage of humanitarian relief and other essential supplies such as water, electricity and gas; thirdly, reopen Tuzla Airport, making possible the delivery of humanitarian relief to over a million people; and, fourthly, establish clear demands for the lifting of the siege of Sarajevo as a first step towards the lifting of all sieges of Bosnian towns, including the safe areas designated by Security Council resolutions 824 (1993) and 836 (1993). Our Bosnian minority in Serbia, the Muslims of Sandzak, have been deprived of their rights. Many people who have defended the rights of their countrymen have been imprisoned or expelled. While the Serbian regime has ostensibly been protecting the rights of ethnic Serbs in Croatia, it has not been willing to recognize those same rights for minorities in Serbia. We demand the same rights for the Muslims of Sandzak as those that Serbs are demanding for themselves in Croatia. Future negotiations cannot neglect this very important political and human-rights issue. As United States President Clinton recently stated before this body, the United Nations cannot become involved in every world conflict. United Nations involvement should only be undertaken with a clear political and military strategy in place. Tragically, United Nations involvement in Bosnia and Herzegovina has so far shown the very antithesis of any clarity of objective and firmness of resolve. The moral void created by this confusion has naturally been filled with a determination to defer to the aggressor’s wishes at the expense of the victim. The United Nations intervention, in its half-heartedness and equivocation, combined with its proud insistence that it is getting the job done and that therefore we cannot be allowed to arm ourselves, may well go down in history as the principal instrument of my country’s destruction. In this regard, a few unavoidable questions arise. Why has there been no implementation of Security Council resolutions 824 (1993) and 836 (1993) calling for the lifting of the siege of our cities? What has happened to the Security Council’s demands in resolution 752 (1992) for the withdrawal of all Serbian military and paramilitary units from our country along with their heavy weapons? Why has there been no implementation of Security Council resolutions 787 (1992) and 838 (1993), which were to monitor the border between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and prevent the continuing massive flow of arms and material going to the aggressors in Bosnia? It is no longer possible to speak of non-intervention. The international community’s involvement in Bosnia began with the imposition of the arms embargo and has continued through this whole series of unfulfilled commitments. The United Nations must either follow 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session through with its intervention or decide to rescind that intervention. One way or another, it cannot continue with the present policy, which makes it an accomplice in the destruction of the Bosnian people. My Government remains committed to peace and to the ideals of a pluralistic, democratic and multi-religious society. Unfortunately, some of the very nations that espouse these ideals world wide have betrayed them by inaction, and in their own backyards. We cannot indefinitely continue a struggle on principle without adequate help from outside or without at least being afforded the full opportunity to defend ourselves. The action of our Parliament is clear in its commitment to peace, its demands for a viable State and a durable peace. Principles have been shamelessly abandoned by those who had the greatest duty and reason to uphold them in our country. We cannot and will not accommodate the anxieties of those same Governments and allow them to pressure us to abandon our last hope for self-preservation and a real and durable peace. Although there has been a process through which many witnesses to this crime have become anaesthetized to its horror, the horror itself will never go away, and future generations of the righteous and the just in every nation will neither forgive nor trust the countries which allowed it to happen. At least a billion people are waiting for this body to act. Are Members really ready to surrender Bosnia and its people to annihilation? Those billion people I have mentioned, and not only they, will never forgive you. At the outset, permit me to offer to you, Sir, my delegation’s sincere congratulations on your unanimous election to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Your professional experience as your country’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations will undoubtedly be an asset in our important deliberations. We pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for his dedicated service. We applaud the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his bold and tireless efforts to strengthen the world Organization. We warmly welcome the new Members and wish them well. A retrospective look at developments since the end of the cold war reveals the complexity of advancing towards a new fabric of international relations. On the one hand, the spirit of cooperation and interaction is becoming prevalent. The new democracies are making headway in the face of the formidable difficulties of transition. Recent events in Russia are ample evidence of this. We are confident that the democratic forces, led by President Yeltsin, will overcome the present ordeal and succeed in their endeavours. The significance for the region and the entire world of the success of Russia’s reforms can hardly be overemphasized. Furthermore, solutions are being found even to the most protracted regional conflicts. The recent historic act of mutual recognition between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and the interim peace agreement are a case in point. We hope that this will lead to a just and comprehensive solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict. An important breakthrough towards democracy and a multiracial society in South Africa has been made. Peace and the national reconciliation that had eluded Cambodia for so long has been restored to this land of ancient civilization. Landmark agreements on the prohibition of chemical weapons and on the reduction of nuclear armaments have been concluded. In the meantime, it is clear that old, deep-seated problems still await solutions and new ones, once held in check by the circumstances of the time, are emerging. Indeed, no tangible progress has been registered in addressing the issues of poverty, external debt, drugs, organized crime, the widening gap between the affluent and the poor, and environmental crises. Though the cold war is over, the 'hot wars' have multiplied. Suffice it to mention the continuing tragedies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Somalia, Nagorny-Karabakh and Abkhazia. It is widely recognized today that the concept of development has acquired a multidimensional character encompassing not only economic growth, but also political, social and environmental aspects. Moreover, greater emphasis is being placed on the human dimension of development, as in the final analysis the well-being of people stands as a true measurement of development. We believe that the United Nations is the only, and irreplaceable, mechanism to translate this concept into reality. In this respect, the United Nations-sponsored world conferences on population and on women and the World Summit for Social Development are called upon to open up better prospects to that end. No lasting solution to today’s various problems can be sought unless the developmental challenges are adequately addressed. The concept of development and its practical aspects will certainly be enriched by the Secretary-General’s interim report on an agenda for development and its upcoming discussion during this session. Now is the time resolutely to address the long-standing agenda relating to economic disparities between the North and the South, including eradication of poverty, debt relief, elimination of trade protectionism and an early and successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round. In this regard, Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 11 Mongolia welcomes the meeting of the Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement and the Group of Seven last July in Tokyo, which represents a first step towards re-launching the North-South dialogue. My delegation believes it important that following serious consideration by the Assembly, at this session, of the Non-Aligned Movement initiative on the reactivation of the North-South dialogue to strengthen international cooperation for development a positive decision be taken in this regard. It is of signal importance that we maintain the momentum gained at the Rio Conference on Environment and Development through effective follow-up, at both the international and the national level. We commend the dynamic role of the Commission on Sustainable Development as a central political forum for the monitoring and review of the implementation of Agenda 21. Mongolia recently ratified the Convention on Climate Change and the Convention on Biodiversity; our national plan of action to implement Agenda 21 is being formulated. As a country where desertification is a major challenge, Mongolia deems it necessary that a convention on that subject be concluded by 1995. Mongolia believes that the observance of human rights in accordance with universally accepted norms is essential in promoting equitable cooperation among States. Respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms can in no way be reconciled with biased criteria which divide countries into big and small, developed and underdeveloped, majority and minority groups, or along ethnic, racial and religious lines. Furthermore, Mongolia proceeds from the premise that human rights and fundamental freedoms, as universal values, do not recognize borders. It is of the utmost importance that the Vienna Conference on Human Rights, held last June, was able to reach an agreement on the indivisibility of economic, social, cultural, political and civil rights, and on the need to respect and implement them on an equal footing. It is gratifying to note that with the demise of the cold war, propaganda on disarmament issues has faded away and a businesslike atmosphere of cooperation has taken shape. Earlier this year the Treaty on substantive reductions of strategic offensive armaments was concluded between the Russian Federation and the United States. Also, a commendable initiative with respect to a moratorium on nuclear testing took shape. The Geneva Conference on Disarmament has decided to commence negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban treaty. As a country uniquely positioned between the two nuclear-weapon Powers, Mongolia attaches exceptional importance to this issue. That is precisely why my country last year declared its territory a nuclear-weapon-free zone. In this context Mongolia welcomes the idea of turning Central Asia into such a zone. The issue of the timely and full implementation of agreements on the reduction of nuclear weapons and the complete prohibition and elimination of nuclear weapons should not escape the priority attention of the world community. The cessation of nuclear-weapon tests and the strict observance of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) is acquiring special importance. We support the indefinite extension of the NPT at the review Conference in 1995. It is of great importance that the parties to the Treaty, especially the nuclear-weapon States, honour their commitments and refrain from any action that might undermine it. Mongolia is entering its fourth year of democratic reforms. We, like many others in our position, are facing formidable challenges. As an underdeveloped, land-locked country inadequately integrated into the world transportation network, with a high vulnerability to natural calamities, Mongolia is experiencing added difficulties in its transition. In addition to the political and economic reforms there is the onerous task of dealing with spiritual renewal. During the years of the socialist experiment, we Mongols were forced to abandon our centuries-old traditions and cultural heritage. Suffice it to say that virtually all the houses of worship - sanctuaries of spiritual life - over 700 in all, were destroyed, and the traditional script of the Mongols, an important cultural heritage of mankind, was buried in oblivion. The task is now to rectify this wrong. This is a nation-wide task requiring enormous efforts and resources; we cannot leave it to take care of itself. For all the problems, Mongolia’s democratic reforms are steadily gaining ground. The new democratic system of governance proclaimed in the 1992 democratic Constitution is being consolidated. The first-ever direct presidential elections, held last June, culminated in the choice of a President put forward by the new political parties. The legal foundation of the ongoing reforms is being strengthened. It has come to embrace all the key aspects of societal life. The present Government has set itself the task of checking the economic decline within a two-year period. And the target seems to be within the realm of the possible. We associate these gains primarily with the understanding 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session and support of the international community. In recent years a donor community in support of Mongolia has emerged. A donor meeting sponsored recently by the World Bank held its third round in Tokyo, in which 23 countries and 6 international organizations took part. Grants and soft loans by donor Governments significantly help in alleviating the present difficulties, and lay a new basis for future development. In addition, we are keenly interested in attracting private-sector investment in Mongolia. This would not only contribute to economic recovery but would also help make future cooperation with our partners mutually advantageous. The revised Foreign Investment Law creates favourable conditions for such investment opportunities. Furthermore, we consider that active involvement in regional economic cooperation is an essential factor in fulfilling the tasks of transition. With this in mind, we are interested, for instance, in becoming a member of the Asia- Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC). We hope that the States members of that organization will find it possible to understand and support our position. The United Nations has emerged as an important focal point of international efforts and has assumed greatly increased responsibilities in the areas of peacemaking, peace-keeping and peace-building. The detailed report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization is a lucid illustration of that point. Mongolia fully supports the efforts designed to reform the United Nations, especially to restructure and revitalize the activities of the General Assembly and to ensure that the composition of the Security Council reflects the changing realities of the day and the dramatically increased membership of the world Organization. Today, the United Nations is wrestling with many problems and trying hard to ensure that it is able to meet the many challenges of a rapidly changing world. It goes without saying that the success of this undertaking will depend on painstaking efforts and, above all, on the political will and greater realism of Member States. On behalf of Kuwait, it gives me pleasure to convey to Ambassador Insanally our sincere congratulations on his unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I take this opportunity to assure him of the support and cooperation of the delegation of Kuwait in recognition of the close ties that exist between our two countries. His ability and skill give us confidence that our deliberation under his leadership will be fruitful. I am pleased also to pay a tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Bulgaria, for his able and effective stewardship of the General Assembly at its previous session. Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 21 On behalf of the Government and the people of Kuwait, I wish to extend deepest sympathy and condolences to the Government and the people of India with respect to the tragedy resulting from the earthquake in that country, which claimed thousands of innocent victims. Kuwait has been following the impressive role of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali, in developing new modalities of work for the United Nations that are more in line with the sweeping developments, events and changes that are taking place in the world. We cannot but put on record our appreciation of the Secretary-General’s tireless efforts and creativity in restructuring and streamlining the world Organization to reflect in a more meaningful manner the realities of the new world situation. He deserves special credit for his promotion of the concept of preventive diplomacy. Kuwait takes pride in its backing of the United Nations and we do support the new approach it pursues despite the various difficulties it faces and the accusations levelled at it. The United Nations, at the threshold of its fiftieth anniversary, needs from us every material and moral support each and every Member can extend to it. On the other hand, the Organization itself should enhance its effectiveness, streamline its structure and revitalize its organs, especially the Security Council. The Council should reflect more closely the new realities of today’s world. It should be more capable of making and preserving peace and more forcefully firm in implementing its resolutions in consonance with the provisions of the Charter. The United Nations today reflects new world realities, as shown by the recent increase in its membership. Kuwait welcomes the accession to United Nations membership by Eritrea, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Monaco, Andorra and The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and trusts that their accession to the Organization’s membership will consolidate further the efficacy and universality of multilateralism. With the end of the cold war and the effectual participation by the United Nations in resolving many international problems, the world today is moving steadily towards the realization of the principle of interdependence and mutual cooperation between members of the international community. The demise of bipolarity and the disappearance of the barriers that used to separate peoples, together with closer contacts through mass communication made available by the technological revolution, have made it possible for every individual to watch world events as they unfold. Thus peoples are now able to react to and interact with global issues in an unprecedented manner. A direct outcome of all that is the constant expansion of the web of interrelated interests, so that regional security has become an inseparable part of global security. Economic and social development issues have now acquired a high priority among the concerns of the international community. While we in Kuwait support this new tendency, we must stress that movement in the new direction should be humane in concept, civilized in ways and means, pragmatic in modalities and realistic in aims. We also stress that the right of both the individual and the community to development should be accorded top priority among international concerns. In this context, we consider that the first and foremost human right is the right to secure essential necessities of living. Social and economic development at various levels is a close second. Kuwait believes that development should be addressed collectively and that is the most effective way of ensuring the availability of its essential ingredients, so that no region or group of nations should monopolize world resources at the expense of whole continents which remain hostage to the cycle of want and poverty. We view with satisfaction the new approach of dealing collectively with hotbeds of tension, as envisioned by the Charter. Here we have in mind the practical and effective application of the concept of collective security in the context of which regional conflicts are viewed as direct threats to world peace and stability and not as mere threats to regional security. Therefore we demand that any conflict should be dealt with firmly and expeditiously in order to avoid its worsening, opening the door and allowing terrorism to fly in the face of international legality and flout the new approach. It is in keeping with this conviction that Kuwait, despite its difficult circumstances, participates in the United Nations humanitarian operations in Somalia, our sister country. Such participation bespeaks our commitment to the new United Nations approach and our support for putting it into practice. Kuwait considers that the international presence in Somalia is indispensable if the Somali people are to be saved from destruction and chaos and if Somalia itself is to survive as an independent country. Indeed, the United Nations peace-keeping operations, which now total 17, as stated by the Secretary-General in his report on the work of the Organization (A/48/1), require from us all full material support, practical participation and political backing. Accordingly, the Government of Kuwait announces from this podium that it will voluntarily bear two thirds of the costs of the United Nations Iraq-Kuwait Observation Mission 22 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session (UNIKOM). This is to demonstrate our firm belief in the true role of UNIKOM in safeguarding the security and peace in our region. It represents also a consolidation of the concept of collective security and the United Nations role therein. Kuwait believes that the most important underpinnings of the new world approach are: compliance with established norms of conduct in international relations; respect for the principles of international law; rejection of interference in the internal affairs of other States; rejection of seeking gains and concessions at the expense of neighbouring countries; the resolution of problems by dialogue rather than by force; and the renunciation of terrorism as a means of revenge. The Iraqi regime invaded and occupied the State of Kuwait. However, the adamant international will embodied by the United Nations helped liberate Kuwait in a historic act that led to a clean and tidy elimination of that horrendous crime. Subsequently, Iraq accepted the consequences of its crime as set out in Security Council resolution 687 (1991) which contains the provisions of fair and binding solutions for the false Iraqi claims regarding Kuwait. It also outlines the conditions for dealing with the consequences and underlying reasons of the Iraqi invasion. The quintessence of resolution 687, which was accepted unconditionally by Iraq, is the reaffirmation of the sovereignty and independence of Kuwait. It also called for the utilization of United Nations technical assistance in the demarcation of boundaries between Kuwait and Iraq on the basis of the documents exchanged between the two countries in October 1963. In implementation of the provisions of the said resolution, the United Nations set up a Boundary Demarcation Commission which successfully completed its work last May and has issued its final report which contains the definitive map of land and maritime boundaries between Kuwait and Iraq (document S/25811). Kuwait commends the technical Boundary Demarcation Commission and pays tribute to its members for their impartiality, dedication and patience, especially in the face of Iraqi accusations and provocations. Kuwait also pays tribute to the Security Council for adopting two historic resolutions this year. The first, resolution 806 (1993), extended the terms of reference of UNIKOM into a peace-keeping operation with full powers to prevent Iraqi raids into Kuwait and to put an end to riots instigated by the Iraqi regime. Resolution 833 (1993), unanimously adopted under Chapter VII of the Charter, reaffirms the commitment of the Security Council to guarantee the inviolability of the international boundary as demarcated by the United Nations technical commission and to consider that boundary as final and inviolable. By so doing, the Security Council has put an end to an amorphous situation which had lasted for far too long and which Iraq exploited in a bid to secure territorial expansion, to exercise regional hegemony, and to gain political, strategic and material concessions at the expense of Kuwait and the other Gulf States. The demarcation of the boundary between Kuwait and Iraq is a major contribution by the international community to the elimination of a volatile hotbed of regional tension which the Iraqi regime used to exploit in creating an atmosphere of uncertainty and mistrust and which culminated in its vicious invasion of the State of Kuwait. Kuwait responded positively to the Secretary- General’s acceptance of the outcome of the border demarcation process. In our response, we also reaffirmed our sincere cooperation with the United Nations despite the fact that Kuwait had voted against some Commission decisions which denied Kuwait its rights in Khowr Zhobeir. Iraq, for its part, responded with two letters to the Secretary-General. The first in May 1992, following the demarcation of the land boundary, and the second in June 1993 following the demarcation of the maritime boundary. Both letters reiterated previous Iraqi claims to what it calls its historical rights. Iraq also rejected the demarcation results and challenged the integrity of the United Nations technical Commission and the validity of its procedures and work. This prompted the Security Council to reprimand Iraq strongly in a presidential statement which it issued on 28 June 1993 and in which it rejected the contents of the aforesaid Iraqi letters and reminded Iraq of its obligations under resolution 687 (1991). Iraq has unconditionally accepted resolution 687 (1991) in all its provisions and in so doing has undertaken legal, political and moral obligations on which it cannot renege, nor can it fail to abide by the consequences of such obligations because the functions of the technical Commission were not to the liking of its representative on the Commission, who had participated fully, for a whole year, in its work and deliberations and then chose to withdraw from the Commission when he found himself unable to produce substantive documents corroborating Iraq’s claims, despite the fact that the Commission pressed him to do so. The stance of the Iraqi regime constitutes a rebellion against Security Council resolutions in defiance of the will of the Council and the international community. This represents an egregious departure from the current global mainstream and warrants firm international resolve to reject the Iraqi regime’s practices in both form and substance. Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 23 I find it necessary now to emphasize in no uncertain terms that the Iraqi regime remains in its philosophy, behaviour, thinking and nature a threat to regional and global peace and security. It persists in its aggressiveness while it thumbs its nose at the world community, which continues to reject and isolate it with sanctions. Kuwait has confidence in the wisdom of the Security Council and the ability of its members to fulfil their mandate. We trust that they are keen to ensure their collective commitment to the Security Council resolutions and thus compel the Iraqi regime to recognize that it has no option but to begin the complete and documented implementation of all those resolutions to the letter. The Iraqi regime should be made to understand that its desperate endeavours to have the sanctions lifted will be totally futile unless and until it clearly and legally complies with the boundary demarcation decisions as set forth in the relevant Council resolutions, especially resolutions 773 (1992) and 833 (1993). The Iraqi regime must also meet other basic requirements, such as desisting from the false claims made by its official information apparatus which continues to describe Kuwait as part of Iraq and to make other false claims to so-called historical rights. The persistence of and increase in such falsehoods, which emanate from ranking officials of that regime, is a reversal of and retreat from acceptance of the essence of resolution 687 (1991), which represents Iraq’s commitment to respect Kuwait’s sovereignty, independence and international borders. We have submitted regular reports to the Security Council containing complete verbatim excerpts of the claims made by senior Iraqi officials and the official Iraqi media. We call upon all Member States of the United Nations to welcome the relevant Security Council resolutions on the border demarcation and the inviolability of boundaries as essential components of the regional security structure. We also expect Member States to demand that the Iraqi regime respect all relevant resolutions and link the lifting of sanctions with its implementation of all Security Council resolutions, particularly those regarding the boundary demarcation and the release of prisoners. In this context, I should like to recall that the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) issued at its last March session a statement welcoming the demarcation of the boundary between Kuwait and Iraq. The GCC also underscored the demarcation as an underpinning of regional security. Furthermore, the Damascus Declaration States, which include the six GCC countries together with Egypt and Syria, issued a statement last June supporting the demarcation and welcoming the measures taken by the Security Council as positive contributions to stability and security at both the regional and international levels. Iraq’s procrastination in implementing the Security Council resolutions is not limited to the boundary demarcation but extends to a purely humanitarian issue: the release of all prisoners, hostages and detainees of Kuwaiti and third country nationals. Those hostages and prisoners have been languishing in Iraqi prisons and detention camps for some three years now. We trust and hope that the international community will bring pressure to bear on the Iraqi regime to release every one of those innocent men, women and children. Their plight is a stark violation of all the values and concepts associated with the issue of human rights. It is also a case that represents a rejection of the new global approach, which we believe all here are keen to promote with a view to safeguarding human rights in the world. Kuwait has explored all possible avenues, using all available Arab, Islamic and international channels to persuade the Iraqi regime to comply with the norms of international law, especially its commitments under the Geneva Conventions. To date, the Iraqi regime has made no positive response to the efforts made by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) on behalf of those persons. Most recently, it boycotted a meeting organized by the ICRC in Geneva last month to discuss the latest developments of this important and urgent humanitarian matter. The people of Kuwait will feel no relief and enjoy no peace of mind until the very last prisoner is returned to his or her family and homeland. Iraq has also failed to fulfil its obligation to return the remainder of Kuwaiti property belonging to the private and public sectors in our country. Furthermore, it has neither implemented Security Council resolutions 707 (1991) and 715 (1991), nor has it desisted from oppressing and suppressing its own population in the northern and the southern regions of the country. It continues to resort to acts of terrorism. We in Kuwait share the Iraqi people’s pain and suffering by virtue of the brotherhood between our two peoples and our everlasting neighbourhood. It is with particular concern that we see the humiliation of the Iraqi people as the Iraqi regime pursues its atrocities with total disregard for the plight of the Iraqi people and its future. The Iraqi regime has stubbornly rejected the mechanism provided to alleviate the suffering and hardships of the Iraqi people by failing to implement Security Council resolutions 706 (1991) and 712 (1991). Indeed, responsibility for the plight of the Iraqi people lies squarely on the regime itself, which must be held accountable for all the dire consequences of its atrocities. 24 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Kuwait firmly believes that security in the Gulf region is part and parcel of world security. Hence, the international community is responsible for ensuring respect for the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of States that fall prey to aggression. Support for States that fall victim to aggression should also be provided by the world community when a conflict breaks out. The consolidation of regional security requires confidence-building among all countries in the region as a basic premise for attaining that common goal. Here, I should like to underline the close ties and complete trust that exist among GCC States. Their cooperation is a substantial contribution to the stability and security of the region. Facts on the ground attest to our common endeavours. Kuwait is keen to improve its relations with the Islamic Republic of Iran on the basis of the principles of good-neighbourliness, non-interference in the internal affairs of each other and respect for sovereignty as specified by the Gulf Cooperation Council Supreme Council. Having said that, Kuwait would like to emphasize the sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates over its three islands - Abu Mousa, Lesser Tonb and Greater Tonb. Furthermore, Kuwait wishes to put on record its absolute support for all the peaceful measures and means to which the United Arab Emirates resorts in order to regain sovereignty over its islands. Kuwait remains hopeful that dialogue will eventually clear away all the outstanding matters between the two countries. With that aim in view, Kuwait calls upon the Islamic Republic of Iran to commit itself to resolving this dispute on the basis of international law and treaties and to ending it by peaceful means. In the context of the developments that are taking place with regard to the Middle East peace process, Kuwait welcomes the signing of the accord between the people of Palestine and Israel to exercise their right to self- determination, to free their territory from occupation and to build their own national institutions. In keeping with Kuwait’s support for every effort made and every avenue chosen by the Palestinian people to further their cause, the Kuwaiti Council of Ministers has issued a statement in which it welcomed this first step towards the full implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions. Kuwait views this accord as a first step towards the creation of a framework to deal with many details - a process that will require enormous effort and patience on the part of the parties directly involved if a successful conclusion is to be ensured. The accord has indeed ushered in a totally new chapter in the history of the Middle East and the question of Palestine. We hope that, in the new era, negotiation will replace conflict; dialogue will supersede confrontation; and that disputes will be resolved under the rule of international law instead of by force of arms, in consonance with the developing new approach. However, the litmus test will be in the steps that will follow and in the achievements that will be made on the other Arab fronts. In the final analysis, partial or incomplete peace will not last, and a unilateral accord will not lead to a fair and comprehensive peace. From now on we should not look to the past with pain and sorrow; rather, we should look to the future with hope and confidence. In the end, the success of the peace process hinges on genuine and serious commitment on the part of Israel to implement United Nations resolutions, particularly those that call for complete and unconditional withdrawal from the Syrian Arab Golan. In the same vein, Israel must withdraw its forces from Southern Lebanon, without any further delay, in compliance with Security Council resolution 425 (1978). I take this opportunity to commend the Lebanese Government for its remarkable effort to build national reconciliation in Lebanon. For its part, Kuwait will continue to back the Lebanese people in their efforts to reconstruct and rehabilitate their homeland. The tragedy of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina continues unabated. That people is the target of brutal aggression by the Serbs and the Croats, who want to impose a fait accompli and to make territorial gains by imposing a grossly unjust settlement on the Muslims of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We call upon the Security Council and the European Community to take all urgent and effective measures to prevent the aggressor from gaining any reward and to refuse to legitimize the outcome of outright aggression. We appeal to the international community to lift the embargo on arms supplies to the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina to enable its people to exercise their right to self-defence, as set forth in the Charter of the United Nations. A few days ago, Kuwait was pleased to receive the President of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The visit was the culmination of Kuwait’s constant support for the struggle of that Muslim nation, and it demonstrated our deep, comprehensive and unwavering commitment to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Kuwait firmly welcomes the agreement that has been reached between the Government of President de Klerk and the other parties involved in the negotiations on the future political and social structure in South Africa. The thrust of Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 25 this accord is to end the system of apartheid, which divides society into segments whose rights and prerogatives are based on the colour of their skin. We applaud this historic agreement, which will put all the people of South Africa, irrespective of class, on a totally new humanitarian cause, enabling all South Africans to unleash their energies in the building of a new society. For its part, Kuwait has complied fully with all the boycott regulations. Together with other members of the international community, it contributed to the creation of the effective mechanism that eventually led to the agreement in question. Now we intend to take the necessary measures on the national level to lift sanctions in response to Mr. Nelson Mandela’s recent appeal from this rostrum. Our action will be in line with the global trend towards the creation of conditions conducive to the fulfilment of the targets set out in the agreement. My Government will review Kuwaiti national legislation that prohibits dealings with the Government of South Africa, in the light of the national agreement in South Africa, international consensus and the important statement in which Mr. Nelson Mandela called for an end to the economic sanctions while continuing to maintain the ban on conventional and nuclear weapons. We welcome also the proposal by the Multilateral Negotiating Council and the agreement that has been reached to enable the young Republic of Namibia to have its territorial rights in respect of Walvis Bay and the off-shore islands restored. Parallel to the heart-warming transformations on the world political arena, there are some significant economic indicators. The issues relating to the world economic situation are of great concern to my Government. In our view, top priority must be given, on the international economic agenda, to the economic plight of the developing countries, especially the most impoverished among them, so that they may be helped to alleviate the severe suffering of their populations. Convinced that the future of the world and the well- being of its inhabitants require wholesome approaches that balance the use of resources with conservation of the environment, Kuwait has played an active role in the international forums dealing with the questions of the environment and energy. We are extremely keen on the promotion of international cooperation with a view to achieving wider development and removing obstacles that impede it. We believe, however, that priority should be accorded to national and international efforts that aim at achieving overall social and economic development and increasing political stability. The individual must always be the focus of every development effort. All development policies should be flexible enough to accommodate the ingenuity and creative power of all individuals. This is indeed our guarantee of progress and excellence in human endeavour. International institutions should provide the platform and the framework to harness our national efforts towards that end. The new international orientation, in its political and economic aspects, presents us with yet another window of opportunity. As interdependent partners, we should forge ahead together so that, together, we may reap the common benefits of the new order. Please accept my warm congratulations, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I wish you luck and success in your high office. At the same time, I extend a cordial welcome to the new Members of our Organization. Addressing the Assembly 20 years ago, Willy Brandt said that the Federal Republic of Germany’s purpose in joining the United Nations was to help serve the cause of world peace. That has always been, and will remain, the fundamental aim of German foreign policy. At that time, in a bipolar world, Germany was divided. In that year, 1973, the October war broke out in the Middle East. In South Africa the inhuman apartheid regime was dominant. Today my country is united in peace and harmony with our neighbours. Today we can congratulate Israel, the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and neighbouring Arab countries on a historic breakthrough. Today the policy of apartheid has been overcome. Without the resolve to seek peace, these developments would not have been possible. World peace, which appears to have come closer as bipolarity has receded, must not remain an unfulfilled vision. The international community’s desire for peace led to the founding of the United Nations after the Second World War. It remains our moral and political obligation to fulfil that legacy. There can be no more important task. In the quest for peace we are faced with a new challenge and a new danger, but we also have a historic opportunity. We are faced with the great challenge of overcoming hunger and poverty around the world, of preserving the natural sources of life, and of creating the foundations for a long-term global population policy. When people have to leave their native lands, when human rights are violated, there can be no peace. Peace is not merely the silence of guns. Hence, economic and social challenges must be very high on the global agenda. The world is deeply unjust. The distribution of mankind’s opportunities is woefully unequal. This we should not tolerate. The danger confronting us is that peace in many parts of the world is threatened by new conflicts, especially those of an ethnic nature. The continuing proliferation of modern weapons and weapon technology increases the destructive potential of these conflicts. Our opportunity, after the end of the East-West confrontation, is to develop the United Nations into what its founding fathers intended it to be: the principal guardian of peace. In performing that role the United Nations must have the support of the numerous other international organizations that are functioning successfully today. I truly believe that we can master the economic, ecological and social challenges and overcome the danger of a relapse into a confrontation of States, peoples, cultures and religions only if we resolutely seize the historic opportunity to strengthen the global multilateral system and the United Nations. Today no country alone can cope with global challenges. Hence we must counteract nationalism with multilateralism. German foreign policy is aimed at strengthening the multilateral world order. It is committed to the goal of European integration. Its purpose is to harmonize and create a fair balance of interests. German foreign policy is therefore a policy within, in support of, and together with the United Nations. I agree with the Secretary-General: Peace can only be preserved if we strike at the roots of conflict. His proposed agenda for development must go hand-in-hand with 'An Agenda for Peace'. Misery, starvation and poverty are still the overriding problem in many countries. At the eighth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and at the Rio Conference, the developing and industrial countries agreed on a comprehensive partnership for promoting development and protecting the environment. For that partnership to be successful both sides, North and South, must contribute their share. By carrying out economic and political reforms, making more efficient use of their funds and cutting military expenditure, and ensuring greater democratic control and respect for the rule of law, many developing countries have embarked on the right course. The World Summit for Social Development, scheduled to take place in Copenhagen in 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session 1995, must be a forum for dialogue on the social issues re-emerging all over the world. The industrial countries have undertaken to support the efforts of the developing countries by improving the general conditions for world trade in a spirit of solidarity. Such assistance can never be more than help towards self-help. What is required is more entrepreneurial cooperation with developing countries, more direct investment, improved cooperation in the field of technology, the opening of markets and the elimination of trade barriers. The Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) must at long last establish reliable rules for free trade and be brought to a conclusion by December 15. Germany, one of the leading trading nations, is committed to these goals. If new trading blocs were to form, with the attendant conflicting interests, new political confrontations would soon follow. Protectionism would be the worst outcome. The global economy is in the throes of a fundamental structural change. International competition is becoming more intense. Many highly industrialized societies are confronted with fresh challenges. Unemployment and sluggish growth are unexpectedly severe burdens on their productive capacity, both domestically and externally. On the other hand, the trend towards a single world economy opens up the first opportunity for billions of people to offer their products in all markets. All of us, industrial and developing countries alike, must make peace with nature. The United Nations is called upon to protect the natural foundations of life. I propose that the United Nations develop an early-warning system for environmental disasters. The momentum of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development must be maintained. My country is ready for comprehensive cooperation. Germany can make a special contribution, particularly as regards the transfer of environment-friendly technologies. The population explosion is a threat to the planet’s equilibrium. Whereas in the eighteenth century the world population increased by a quarter of a billion in 75 years, it is now increasing by this number every three years. Most of this increase is taking place in countries whose economic and ecological resources are already strained to the limit. Family planning must be enhanced, the poverty gap reduced, and education and knowledge disseminated among women and men alike. A successful International Conference on Population and Development, to be held in Cairo next year, is therefore mandatory. Respect for human rights is a universal obligation. It is a focal point of German foreign policy. Human rights and the protection of minorities belong together. Racism, cultural arrogance and the delusion of wanting to create 'ethnically clean' areas constitute a threat to peace. Yugoslavia is a terrible example of this. Where civic, economic, cultural and religious rights of minorities are concerned, the majority may not rule by fiat. The Declaration and Programme of Action of the Vienna World Conference on Human Rights represent the consensus opinion of the community of nations. They reaffirm the universal validity of the human rights. Now it is important to seek rapid implementation. I wish to mention five specific points: Firstly, my country has long advocated the appointment of a high commissioner for human rights. He should be authorized to take steps on his own initiative to protect human rights and to give active support to those countries seeking to improve the human rights situation. Secondly, we need an international criminal court. The International Law Commission has submitted a full draft statute for such a court. The pressure on those who trample human rights under foot must be increased now. Those who torture on this Earth must live in fear of punishment. Thirdly, in order to prosecute speedily those who are responsible for the ghastly violations of human rights in the former Yugoslavia, the Security Council has set up an ad hoc Tribunal. The elected judges must now begin their work right away. A chief prosecutor should be appointed without delay. Fourthly, the non-governmental organizations have become part of the world’s conscience and therefore have an increasingly important role to play in the defence of human rights. Finally, the instruments for ensuring respect for human rights must be given a higher priority in the United Nations budget. The crisis in the former Yugoslavia, and especially the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is one of the most depressing episodes of our time. A Member of the United Nations has fallen victim to a war of conquest accompanied by genocide and mass expulsions. For the first time since the Second World War, frontiers in Europe are being redrawn by force of arms. The principles of the United Nations have been treated with contempt. The credibility of Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 15 our institutions - indeed the credibility of the United Nations itself - is being put to the test. If the fighting continues, the winter will prove to be an awful disaster for the suffering people. It must therefore be stopped as quickly as possible and steps taken to ensure that humanitarian aid is provided. We therefore support the Geneva efforts to settle the conflict, in spite of doubts about the current plan, and we express special thanks to the Co-Chairmen, Lord Owen and Thorvald Stoltenberg, for the difficult job they are doing. A settlement now seems within reach, but it must be accepted by all parties to the conflict. No party must impose its will on another. The Bosnian Muslims must be given viable territory. We need an assurance that the community of nations will be resolutely and actively involved in the implementation of a settlement. We cannot tolerate a situation in which the Muslims, who have lived in Europe for centuries, would have fewer rights than their Christian neighbours. Through preventive measures we must ensure that the tragedy of this war does not spill over into neighbouring regions. What is now required is proposals for controlled disarmament in the region. This is a task for the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). After decades of war and bitter antagonism, the Middle East is experiencing a historic breakthrough towards peace. We all want the peace process to become irreversible. Germany and its partners in the European Community have undertaken to provide political, economic and particularly financial support. They have earmarked about a billion deutschemarks for this purpose. I should like to express my respect for both sides for their political courage and their will for peace. I call upon those who still hesitate to help sustain the peace process. I appeal to all to renounce the use of force. The continuing proliferation of arms in many parts of the world is still highly disturbing. President Clinton’s proposals have our support. Encouraging progress has been achieved in the form of the Convention placing a global ban on chemical weapons and of the agreement reached on a mandate for negotiations in the Geneva Conference on Disarmament with a view to a comprehensive test-ban treaty. The test moratorium must be extended. There must be no further testing. The nuclear and non-nuclear Powers alike are urged to consolidate the non-proliferation regime. When the matter comes up for decision in 1995, the Non-Proliferation Treaty must be extended indefinitely. As the representative of a country which many years ago unilaterally and bindingly renounced the possession of nuclear weapons and other means of mass destruction, I appeal to all Members: accede to the Non-Proliferation Treaty. The laying of mines in large regions in many countries has become a scourge for the population. It prevents the return of refugees and the resumption of farming. Thousands have been killed or horribly mutilated. It must be stopped. The European Community has, with our support, seized the initiative. We need a fund to finance mine detection and disposal operations. My country’s European anchorage is indispensable on both political and economic grounds. My Belgian colleague, Willy Claes, has already explained the position of the 12 members of the European Community. Stability in Europe cannot remain a privilege of the Western nations. The peoples of the reformist countries fought for their freedom and we encouraged them to do so. We shall not abandon them now. We must gradually open the road to the Euro-Atlantic institutions for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Those institutions include the European Community and the Council of Europe as well as the Western European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). I am expecting a clear message from the NATO summit - which is to take place at the beginning of 1994 - like the one that came from the European Community summit meeting in Copenhagen. In this process, no new ruptures must emerge. A lasting peaceful order in Europe is not feasible without including Russia. Over the last four years Germany has made a greater financial effort than any other nation to help the reformist countries on their road to democracy, the rule of law and a free market economy. This assistance, too, is a major contribution to conflict-prevention and the safeguarding of peace. In the present critical phase, Russia’s friends and partners - who include the Germans in particular - must continue to provide political and economic support for President Yeltsin’s reforms. I am concerned about developments in Georgia. We must achieve a cease-fire and work out a viable political solution. This is a task for the United Nations in particular. 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The desire for peace makes it imperative for all countries to seek closer regional cooperation.We support intra-Africa efforts to resolve conflicts and welcome the stronger commitment on the part of the Organization of African Unity. We are gratified by the democratic changes to be observed in Latin America in recent years. Nearly everywhere democracy and free-market principles have asserted themselves and sources of conflict have, thank God, been eliminated. The Association of South-East Asian Nations has become an important instrument for cooperation in the Asia-Pacific region. European-Asian cooperation must be intensified. 'An Agenda for Peace' has become the lodestone for the world Organization’s further development. I wish to take this opportunity, Mr. Secretary-General, to express my thanks for your commitment. The Security Council and the General Assembly have constructively taken up the Agenda’s proposals. However, conflict prevention must begin at an early stage. Preventing fires is better than having to put them out. We must focus our energy on the possibilities of preventive diplomacy, confidence-building measures, fact-finding and the early detection of conflicts. The CSCE must back the United Nations within its sphere of jurisdiction. The relations between the two organizations have been intensified. The CSCE should be given wider scope for conflict prevention and crisis management. In wars and crises, the Blue Helmets have helped to protect the civilian population, to prevent the spread of warfare and to initiate the transition to democracy. Some 80,000 troops from more than 70 countries are engaged in 17 peace-keeping missions around the world. They and the United Nations Secretariat’s Department of Peace-keeping Operations deserve our thanks. One of the most successful operations was the one in Namibia. In Cambodia the United Nations has sponsored free elections and restored hopes of lasting peace after decades of terror and oppression. Of course - and it is important to stress this - not all the hopes placed in the United Nations can be fulfilled, and it would be wrong to deny that difficulties have been encountered. But what would happen without the United Nations and the Blue Helmets? To the critics I therefore say that we need not less but more commitment to the United Nations. In Somalia starvation has been overcome. The reconciliation process has been overshadowed by incidents in which troops and civilians have been killed. These are tragedies, but without the United Nations Operation in Somalia, hundreds of thousands would have had to die. Germany has been providing humanitarian aid within the scope of this major peace-keeping operation, our largest commitment of personnel so far within the framework of the United Nations. Our involvement in such operations has the backing of the German people. There is a consensus in our country in favour of widening our scope for contributing to peace. We are engaged in a passionate debate over proposed constitutional amendments which would enable Germany to participate in all United Nations operations without restriction. A policy for peace also means strengthening the rule of law as opposed to the rule of the strong. If the United Nations is prevented from carrying out its mandate, it will have to be in a position to authorize the Security Council to resort to force, as provided for in Chapter VII of the Charter. However, the use of military means should be considered only if we have a clear political blueprint for resolving the conflict. Force must always be the last resort. Consequently, our contribution to the United Nations will continue to be of a mainly political and economic nature. Greater emphasis will have to be placed on United Nations peace-keeping measures in view of the growing responsibilities and demands. First, the United Nations Secretariat’s Department of Peace-keeping Operations must be improved logistically and organizationally and in terms of staff. The German Government is willing to make further experts available to the Secretariat. Secondly, effective crisis management presupposes the ability to react swiftly. The Secretary-General’s initiative for the establishment of stand-by forces has my support. Stand-by forces should not be confined to military units but should include civilian personnel and experts ranging from police to election observers. But participation must always be voluntary and be subject to the fulfilment of national conditions. Thirdly, enhancing the efficiency of the United Nations presupposes a link-up of military forces. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) has declared its willingness to Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 17 make its capacities available. The same holds true for the Western European Union (WEU). Fourthly, in many countries military training is geared solely to the traditional duties of the army. The specific tasks of peace-keeping require a completely different kind of training. The national preparation of 'Blue-Helmet' forces needs to be coordinated to a greater degree by the United Nations. For this, common training guidelines are needed. The United Nations should also create its own training capacity; that is my view. Common training and exercises are, at the same time, important steps in confidence-building. Fifthly, peace-keeping operations require sound financing. The responsibility for peace also includes the prompt and complete payment of contributions by all Members. Humanitarian concerns have been of pivotal importance for Germany’s involvement in United Nations activities from the very start. In the Middle East, in Africa, in South-East Asia, in the Gulf region, in Somalia and in former Yugoslavia we are providing humanitarian assistance. We have assumed responsibility for transport, medical care, the monitoring of disarmament measures and the repatriation of refugees. Together with our partners in the European Community we have called for the creation of a post of coordinator for humanitarian assistance. Part of our humanitarian commitment is the readiness to assist refugees from the civil war, whose situation is very distressing. We have admitted more than 350,000 refugees from former Yugoslavia. I urge the General Assembly to use every opportunity to strengthen the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Mrs. Ogata deserves high praise for the job she is doing. More international solidarity and burden-sharing is called for. We must not abandon those countries which, as neighbouring or target countries for the refugees, are particularly affected. The aim must be to offer shelter to refugees from civil wars or other disasters near their home countries in order to facilitate their early return to those countries. For this we need binding rules. I therefore propose the drafting of an international convention to regulate large-scale refugee movements. Another focal point of our involvement in United Nations activities has been what the Secretary-General refers to in his 'Agenda for Peace' as post-conflict peace-building. Lasting peace depends on the establishment of democratic and market-economy structures based on the rule of law. Investment in the democratization process is an investment in peace. My country, Germany, sees this as a priority of its commitment to development. That is why Germany participates in missions to observe elections, provides economic experts, and assists in the creation of democratic administrative, judicial and police institutions. I should like to stress that a culture of peace is another prerequisite for lasting peace. Not only governments but also individual citizens must develop the will for peace if we want to overcome racial hatred and religious conflict. A culture of peace encompasses a dialogue between ethnic groups as well as between religions and cultures. The Europeans live next door to and in close contact with Islam. We need bridges of mutual understanding, not new enemy images. We need to promote education for peace. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), with its mandate to foster relations between nations, therefore deserves comprehensive support. Germany advocates the strengthening of all United Nations bodies. We do not want a never-ending discussion on reform, but greater efficiency. We welcome the Secretary-General’s efforts to reorganize the Secretariat. The efforts to revitalize the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council also meet with our full support. We would be happy if the United Nations were better represented in Germany and have therefore made an offer for the relocation of institutions of technical cooperation to Bonn. The most important decisions on security and peace are today made in the Security Council. This is what the Charter envisaged right from the start. Anyone who wants peace must strengthen the Security Council. In its response to the Secretary-General’s request, the Federal Government has stated that efficiency and credibility are of equal importance for the future composition of the Security Council. Germany is prepared to assume responsibility as a permanent member of the Security Council also. I stated this at the last session of the General Assembly. However, we will be able to maintain and strengthen the credibility of the Council only if, in deliberating on reforming it, we also take into consideration the growing importance of the third world. Finally, let me state that Germany wants to be and will be a driving force in efforts to strengthen the United Nations. We need to achieve a basic consensus for the important tasks ahead of us. In my view this consensus lies 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session in the rule of law. The law protects the weak and legitimizes force where it is unavoidable. The law is an expression of partnership and is opposed to tyranny and hegemony. It is the acceptance of law that creates justice. Only where justice reigns can peace flourish. On behalf of the Lesotho delegation and on my own behalf, I wish to congratulate Ambassador Insanally on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. His election is a well-deserved tribute to his great personal qualities and also to the dynamic role that the Republic of Guyana has always played within the United Nations and in world affairs. We are also indebted to the dedication and the effective manner in which his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of the Republic of Bulgaria, guided the deliberations of this lofty body during the forty- seventh session of the General Assembly. Allow me also to extend our congratulations to that distinguished son of Africa, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the United Nations, whose untiring global efforts for peace continue to inspire us all. My delegation wishes to reiterate once more its readiness to continue to cooperate with him in every way that would promote international cooperation and understanding, in conformity with the Charter of our Organization. On behalf of my delegation, allow me also to express, like those who have spoken before me, deepest condolences to the Government and the people of the Republic of India for the tragic loss of human lives resulting from the recent earthquake in that country. Since 1945 the membership of the United Nations has increased dramatically, lending credence to the universality of this Organization and bearing out the wisdom of the founding fathers. Today we welcome the new Members to a United Nations whose numerical strength is matched by the broadened scope of its vision, the depth of its commitment to global issues and the capacity of its operations world wide which, more than ever before, it behooves us all to enhance further. We also look forward to welcoming back into the fold a free, democratic and non-racial Republic of South Africa in the very near future. With the emergence of the new world order, we are today at a high tide of opportunity to realize the vision of global peace that inspired the United Nations Charter in 1945. The original design for peace, as outlined in the Charter in 1945, seems to be in sight with the emergence of that new world order. Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993 11 The commendable efforts made by the Secretary-General towards the promotion of international peace and security and for the consolidation of peaceful coexistence among nations are about to bear results. Following the period characterized by international relations of confrontation between the military blocs of East and West, we see around us today an increasing recognition among nations of the need for the settlement of international and regional problems by peaceful means, that is, through negotiation and dialogue. All these developments augur well for the realization of the goals and objectives we set for ourselves in San Francisco in 1945. Recent developments, however, continue to test our Organization’s capacity to make the initiative of 1945 a reality. New challenges have emerged and continue to confront us. Though different in nature and content from those of the past, they are no less important in their bearing, scope and influence on peace and the future of mankind. The beginning of this last decade of the century held out hope for international peace and stability. The world community lifted itself from the trenches of the cold war, pledging to build for mankind a new world order firmly based on legitimacy, cooperation and respect for the rights and dignity of the human person. The residual tendencies to confrontation were also collectively suppressed by the united world action in the Gulf. The euphoria of a world finally at peace has not, regrettably, been universal. From Angola to Somalia to Bosnia and Herzegovina and, recently, in the political standoff in the Russian Federation, we witness a world haunted anew by disputes originating from legacies of the past. The destructiveness and brutality of internal wars are threatening to unweave the very tapestry on which civilization is based. As it stands on the eve of celebrating the golden jubilee of the Charter, the world body must recognize the need for increased resources and more balanced burden-sharing among Member States in order to strengthen the capacity of the United Nations to fulfil effectively its peacemaking and peace-keeping obligations. It must continue to pursue more resolutely the objectives of the Charter, all of which stipulate that the realization of peace and development are legitimate aspirations of all peoples. In the past we have talked about the urgent need for the democratization and restructuring of the United Nations. In this regard, we take note of the commendable efforts which are being made by the Secretary-General to strengthen the structures of the other organs of the Organization within the context of 'An Agenda for Peace' and through regional commissions. In the aftermath of the cold war and at a time when international relations are being reshaped, it is necessary that the imbalances inherent in the present United Nations system be reviewed and corrected. Such an exercise should take into account the principles of decentralization of resources and equitable geographical representation in the decision- making organs of the world body. Like a world parliament, the United Nations must reflect in its structures the same democratic values that it advocates, the values of fairness, transparency and equitable representation, in order to validate the principle of equality of States. The need for democratization extends, in particular, to the Security Council. The African continent accounts for almost one third of the United Nations membership. In the spirit of reflecting the regional diversity of our Organization, we must consider positively the interest of Africa in being allotted at least two permanent seats on the Security Council and an increased number of non-permanent seats. Never before in the history of the United Nations has the world been presented with a greater opportunity for peace. The challenge of this opportunity will require us to conduct international relations with the vision and realism of people who recognize how near, in the past, the world has been to the edge of the precipice. The United Nations global peace-keeping missions are a beacon of hope and a source of inspiration to peace-loving communities world wide that are ravaged by war and strife and in many cases have nowhere else to turn. But even in these trying times, a great opportunity exists, an opportunity possibly greater than any the world community of nations has seen since the founding of this Organization for the creation and maintenance of global peace. Notwithstanding the positive initiative taken by the major nuclear Powers since the end of the cold war, there is still a need to establish a close link between disarmament and international peace in the years ahead. This is the ideal formula to fulfil the aspirations of mankind for a life that is free from the threat of war. To be effective towards this end, disarmament must be universal and embrace all categories of weapons, including conventional weapons. We also recognize that the global reduction of military expenditures could enable the world to redirect its resources to development and to meet the challenge of reversing the 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session environmental degradation of our planet on the eve of the twenty-first century. The hopes of the world were placed last year in the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED). The Earth Summit broke fresh ground in addressing global environmental and development crises. While it did not solve these problems, it at least succeeded in building a large amount of goodwill for the global economic partnership that is so vital if addressing the many environmental problems that the UNCED process recognized and, indeed, highlighted, are to be addressed. More than a year after the Rio Conference, the establishment of the high-level Commission on Sustainable Development remains the most tangible development so far. The majority of the commitments made by world Governments in Rio are yet to be matched with actual deeds. The global trends towards the reduction of aid budgets by the developed countries and the intensifying commercial and political pressure on aid administration contrast sharply with the commitments made by these countries in Rio to reach the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product in aid towards assisting the developing countries make a transition to sustainable development. Another source of great disappointment is the continuing decline in voluntary contributions to the United Nations operational activities. The United Nations system has a central role to play in channelling assistance to developing countries, capitalizing on its comparative advantages of neutrality, widespread field-level presence and rapid response. The least developed countries are continuing to experience a deterioration of their socio-economic situation owing to profound structural constraints and handicaps which reduce their ability to overcome the negative impact of external factors. The issue of the stalemate in multilateral trade negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) is a matter of great concern to the developing countries. Further delays towards successful, balanced and comprehensive GATT negotiations will render the principle of trade as the engine of growth and development an illusion. These basic economic structural problems, coupled with a proneness to natural disasters, seriously hamper these countries’ efforts towards meaningful economic growth. The recent drought which struck the countries of eastern and southern Africa was the worst ever. In Lesotho, the Government has had to declare a state of continuing drought emergency and to extend provision of drought-relief measures for another year, until June 1994. We wish to express our gratitude to the Secretary-General and his team for their efforts in convening, jointly with the Southern African Development Community, a donors’ conference in Geneva last year to address the drought problem. Similarly, we wish to thank the international community for its demonstration of solidarity with our region at a time of desperate need. The Kingdom of Lesotho welcomes the Secretary- General’s report entitled 'An Agenda for Peace' (A/47/277). This document contains far-reaching recommendations on peacemaking, peace-building and peace-keeping. However, the implementation of these recommendations will fall short of attaining the intended results fully if they are not complemented with efforts to harness and reverse the further deterioration in peoples’ socio-economic situations. It is on this basis that my delegation lends its full support to General Assembly resolution 47/181 on the 'Agenda for Development'. We stand ready to engage in constructive debate on the Secretary-General’s preliminary report on 'An Agenda for Development'. The world today faces profound changes, which are fuelled by the deep desire of people across the globe for respect for their basic human rights, for democracy, for public accountability and good governance. The democratically elected Government of the Kingdom of Lesotho embraces the idea and concept of national reconciliation, for which the people of Lesotho have yearned for so long. The Government has also embarked on a vigorous campaign to inculcate and nurture the culture of democracy, respect for basic human rights and popular participation, which should, in turn, have an impact on social mobilization for development, democratic institution- building, political stability and national prosperity. The new Government views the 1993 general election and the overwhelming popular mandate it received for the stewardship of the nation’s affairs as a golden opportunity to address, with fresh impetus, the urgent national issues of poverty, ignorance and disease. We therefore wish to make a special appeal to the donor community to lend a helping hand to our efforts in this regard, in the considered belief that democracy and development are complementary. On behalf of the Government and the peace-loving people of Lesotho, I wish to express our gratitude for the prompt and generous support and assistance we received from the international community towards the success of our return to democratic civilian rule. Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993 13 The situation in South Africa is always a cause for concern in Lesotho, as South Africa is our only immediate neighbour. Despite our concern with the ever-rising levels of violence and the increasing resolve by the right-wing elements to engage in sabotage in South Africa, we are encouraged by what has been achieved through negotiations in that country. In particular, we applaud the agreement reached by the negotiating parties on the date of the end of April 1994 for the holding of the first democratic elections as well as the establishment of the Transitional Executive Council to oversee the transitional arrangements prior to elections. While we acknowledge and support the call for the lifting of economic sanctions against South Africa, we urge the United Nations to upgrade the United Nations monitoring team in South Africa in order to give effective meaning to the Secretary-General’s report 'An Agenda for Peace' and its central message of preventive diplomacy, peace-building and peacemaking. It is our fervent hope that the lessons of the Kingdom of Lesotho’s peaceful transition to democracy will not be lost on the citizens of South Africa, whose own chance to elect a Government of their choice for the first time seems within reach. The people of Angola, another sister country in the subregion, continue to be denied a chance for peace by UNITA. We condemn UNITA for the escalation of the military actions and for the continued massacre of innocent civilians and the destruction of the infrastructure in Angola. We appreciate the efforts of the Secretary-General and take note of Security Council resolution 851 (1993), which imposes a number of sanctions intended to limit the ability of UNITA to continue with its war effort. We also wish to applaud the decision by the United States to recognize and establish diplomatic contact with the Government of Angola, as well as the subsequent positive initiatives for peace taken by the United States in Angola. Mozambique is currently enjoying relative peace. The General Peace Agreement signed in Rome is holding, and the parties have continued to exercise restraint. We appeal to the parties concerned to implement the peace accords without delay and to cooperate with the Secretary-General’s Special Representative in full, including the timely implementation of the mandate of the United Nations Operation in Mozambique. In Liberia, we are optimistic that the collaboration between the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia (UNOMIL) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Military Observer Group (ECOMOG), together with the Peace Agreement signed in Cotonou in July 1993, will bring lasting peace and that the warring factions will stop hostilities and agree on a transitional arrangement to lead the country to democratic elections. Last, but not least, it is heartening to see real hope of a solution to one of the bloodiest, most impassioned and most obdurate conflicts of our time in the Middle East. The signing last month of the peace accord between the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization is a victory for common sense and the validation of peaceful methods in resolving disputes between States. The virtue of this mutual achievement is that it puts coexistence to a test in reality and not in mere exchange of rhetoric. None of this, however, should distract the world from the reaffirmation of the right of the Palestinian people to nationhood in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions. During the World Conference on Human Rights, held in June this year, the whole world converged in Vienna to discuss human rights issues. Although the World Conference was inundated with diverse interpretations of human rights, a great deal of progress was made. My delegation believes that the international community should rededicate itself to the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action as the central document in the effective implementation of existing human rights instruments and commit itself to the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In conclusion, my delegation would wish to emphasize once again that it remains for us to join hands and strive resolutely in all spheres of human endeavour to ensure the very survival of current and succeeding generations. Let this Organization remain the burning light of hope and inspiration for all mankind. For all its differences, and for all its diversity, ours is a world of interdependence and destinies inextricably joined. Let us renew our resolve to pursue to the end the lofty purposes and principles of the Charter of our Organization. In joining my colleagues in congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the high and responsible office of President of the General Assembly, I should like to point out that it is a great honour for a politician and diplomat to guide the work of this universal forum representing practically all the States of the world. I hope that your activities in this important position will promote substantive discussions at this session and the adoption of constructive decisions, and that the work of the forty-eighth session will become a memorable page in your biography. At the same time, I should like to thank Mr. Ganev, President of the previous session of the General Assembly, for his contribution to the Assembly’s work. Soon we shall commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the Teheran Conference, whose decisions laid down the foundations of the United Nations. It was 50 years ago that the participants in that Conference, while discussing the issue of creating an international organization, expressed confidence that the accord among them would ensure lasting peace, and declared the lofty responsibility of all the United Nations in safeguarding peace for succeeding generations. As long ago as 1918, an outstanding Ukrainian politician and writer, Mikhail Hrushevskiy, stated that 'Properly creating history is more important than depicting it positively'. We are proud of the fact that Ukraine took an active part in laying down the foundation of the Organization and that today, along with other members of the international community, it is making a worthy contribution to attaining the noble goals of the United Nations. To our mind, the major result of nearly 50 years of the Organization’s existence is the fact that world war has been averted. This is to the credit of the United Nations, a universal forum of States, a unique Organization without which it is impossible to imagine present-day international relations. Today, when the new dominant feature of international relations is the transition from bipolarity to a qualitatively different world order based on comprehensive security and a balance of interests, the world is witnessing the second birth of the United Nations. For Ukraine, it is of special significance that the United Nations renaissance coincides with the building of our independence, our regained statehood and the revival of Ukraine as a sovereign participant in European and world politics. For Ukraine, which today is trying to find its place in the world balance of power, its United Nations membership is one of the most important international guarantees of its national security and independence. After the disintegration of the USSR and the disappearance of the Warsaw Treaty Organization, our country is compelled to exist next to a zone of decreased stability and of alienation and even tension, irrespective of who is the initiator and what is the subject of discord. Ukraine finds itself in the epicentre of almost all European developments: every crisis emerging on the continent may affect us in one way or another. 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session These factors led to the initiative by Mr. Leonid Kravchuk, the President of Ukraine, concerning the creation in the Central and East European region of a space of stability and security which would include all countries in the Baltic and Black Sea zone and that would become, in the future, an integral part of the European system of security. At the same time, this Central and East European space of stability and security would be a reliable link for developing a broad-based transatlantic system of security taking in the area from Vancouver to Vladivostok, that is, the whole region covered by the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). Implementation of this idea would be a worthy contribution to preventive diplomacy. The basic prerequisite for the creation of such a space might be the implementation of the principle of security for oneself through security for all, the main goal of which would be the development of a system of international relations in the region that would rule out threats to peace and stability such as those emanating from the present conflicts on the territories of the former Yugoslavia and USSR. Ukraine is capable of playing a constructive role in the formation of such a system. As a State which is situated in the centre of the European continent and possesses vast human resources and scientific potential and a strong industrial and agricultural complex, Ukraine is ready to contribute more to the formation of a new, prosperous Europe. In accordance with the principles of a new Europe, we aspire to build a democratic State of law that is economically strong, politically active, peaceful and, in the future, non-nuclear along with others, in which individual rights are respected and guaranteed regardless of nationality or other distinctions. In this context, I should like to dwell on the problem of nuclear weapons on the territory of Ukraine. As is well known, we inherited from the former USSR a huge nuclear arsenal, the third largest in the world in terms of its combat potential. The declaration on the State sovereignty of Ukraine proclaimed the intention of our State to become non-nuclear in the future. And this is not a mere declaration. Ukraine is doing as much as it can towards its implementation. The dismantling of the strategic missile complexes has started. An agreement has been signed with Russia on the utilization of the strategic missiles’ nuclear warheads. We do not exclude the possibility of conducting negotiations on this subject with a third party. However, the full-scale implementation of the nuclear disarmament programme is linked to the need to solve a number of problems. Where do we get the money to dismantle and eliminate the strategic nuclear weapons located in Ukraine? According to our estimates, approximately $2.8 billion are needed for these purposes. How do we ensure reliable guarantees of national security for our State? There arises also the problem of returning to Ukraine - or obtaining compensation for - nuclear components, obtained from nuclear warheads, which, after reprocessing, can be used as fuel for nuclear power stations. This also applies to the nuclear materials extracted from the warheads of tactical missiles removed from Ukraine in 1992. And finally, what should the thousands of servicemen dismissed from the missile forces do? We have no complete answers to these and other questions; so far the promises of help exist only in statements and on paper. The Verkhovna Rada, the Ukrainian Parliament, is deeply involved in these questions and is looking for opportunities to adopt balanced decisions, in the shortest possible time, taking into consideration the interests both of Ukraine and of the international community as a whole. At the same time, I should like to stress that while considering this issue we should also take into account the external situation. For today, instability and internal struggles in neighbouring countries sometimes spill over their frontiers and threaten Ukraine’s national security and territorial integrity. This is most especially so in the case of the well-known decision by the, now former, Supreme Soviet of the Russian Federation concerning the status of Sevastopol. There have also been attempts to question the status of Crimea as a whole. In this connection, I should like to state explicitly that the Republic of Crimea is an inseparable part of Ukraine. Crimea, as a part of Ukraine, could play an appropriate role in the region and make a decisive contribution to consolidating the Black Sea region as a zone of peace and stability. In this context, I should like to express profound gratitude to all the countries, especially to the members of the Security Council, that gave their unambiguous assessment of the illegal encroachments upon the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and manifested their support for our State. Again, we are convinced that the complicated issues of inter-State relations can be solved only through firm and energetic action on the part of the international community. Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 7 In our opinion, the objective basis for cooperation between Ukraine and other countries lies in the formation of a stable and secure system of international relations. In the present circumstances, the basis of this system is respect for the principal postulates of international law, according to which the inviolability of the frontiers and territorial integrity of sovereign States is recognized as one of the prerequisites for international peace and security. The former empires have vanished, and like them imperialistic thinking, such as unilateral interpretations by certain States of legal succession issues and their other actions that are incompatible with the norms and ethics of international relations should also disappear. We hope that an understanding of contemporary realities will facilitate the further normalization and development of Ukraine’s relations with other countries on terms of mutual respect, a balanced search for compromises and the renunciation of extreme rhetoric. Genuine conditions for such developments are already in existence, and it is a worthwhile task to use them to foster mutually beneficial economic relations and to ensure wide-ranging contacts between peoples. Ukraine, as one of the founders of the Commonwealth of Independent States, is actively developing cooperation with the CIS countries. We regard the Commonwealth as an international mechanism for multilateral consultations and talks that is contributing to the process of forming qualitatively new full-scale, bilateral relations between participating States and is promoting solutions to the problems that they face after the disintegration of the USSR. Our relations with the Baltic States are developing in a positive way. Ukraine unswervingly supports the efforts of the world community to find a formula for settling the conflict in the former Yugoslavia. We consider that a real solution to this problem is possible only through taking into account the interests of all States in the region, and those of ethnic communities, on the basis of the relevant decisions by the United Nations Security Council and of the cornerstone principles of international law. We take it as given that all countries involved in the attempt to settle this conflict, and the relevant international structures, must approach the issue very carefully, especially when the use of force is implied. It must be borne in mind that the use of force might lead to extremely undesirable consequences, frustrate the negotiating process and result in an escalation in the conflict and its spread to other areas of the former Yugoslavia. Our position on the settlement of conflicts on the territory of the former Soviet Union is similar. In this connection, we should like to welcome the role played by the United Nations and the CSCE in Transdnestria and the joint efforts of the international community in searching for ways to stop the bloodshed in Nagorny-Karabakh. Tragic developments have taken place in Georgia. Signed agreements have been violated, the bloodshed persists and people continue to perish. As long ago as 21 September, Leonid Kravchuk, the President of Ukraine, appealed to the President of the Russian Federation, which is a guarantor of the tripartite truce agreement of 27 July 1993, and to the Secretary-General of the United Nations to take all possible measures to stop the escalation of the conflict and to activate the mechanism contained in the agreement. Regrettably, the attempts to stop the dangerous developments have been frustrated and the situation is running out of control, threatening the stability of the Caucasus region as a whole. The international community should immediately call on the potential of the United Nations Charter in order to bring the situation back onto a course of settlement through political dialogue. At the same time, I should like to draw attention to a truth that is as old as the hills but which is regrettably often forgotten: preventing disease is much cheaper and more effective than treating them. A similar idea was expressed yesterday by Mr. Kinkel, my colleague from Germany. An emphasis on active, preventive diplomacy that would forestall conflicts should become the dominant feature of contemporary international relations. The fact that the issue of Sevastopol was addressed at a meeting of the United Nations Security Council, the activities of the CSCE missions in Kosovo, Sanjak and Vojvodina, and the deployment of United Nations military contingents in The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are, to our mind, good examples that illustrate this truth. In fact, reviving the peacemaking activities of the United Nations has become one of the more vivid examples of the transformation in United Nations political thinking, and is embodied in the conclusion that diplomatic language should replace the language of the gun in inter-State communication. Ukraine is taking an active part in this process. More than a year has elapsed since a Ukrainian battalion was sent to the former Yugoslavia to participate in the United Nations peace-keeping forces. From the point of view of Ukraine, as a new and independent State, the multilateral peace- keeping efforts of the United Nations remain the 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Organization’s most effective instruments in its performance of its major function, the ensuring of international peace and security. Ukraine is ready to continue active participation in the peace-keeping activities carried out under the auspices of the United Nations or the CSCE. The prestige and authority that Ukraine has gained as a result of its participation in United Nations peace-keeping operations have not come easily. Lately, human losses among peace-keepers from the United Nations Blue Helmets have increased. The rise in the number of peace-keeping operations and their expansion may result in further losses. That is why it is our belief that it is urgently necessary to work out a document to define the status of United Nations peace-keeping personnel and to make provision for a mechanism to protect them. This would be a logical development of the provisions of resolution 47/72, adopted by the General Assembly at the initiative of Ukraine, with sponsorship by over 50 States, and of the relevant Security Council resolution, resolution 868 (1993) of 29 September 1993. Ukraine is interested in strengthening peace, security and stability in the nearby Middle East region and welcomes the decisions reached between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization on mutual recognition and the agreement on Palestinian self-rule in the Gaza strip and Jericho signed on 13 September in Washington. The first, important step has thus been taken on the road to a complete settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict. Ukraine welcomes the developments in South Africa, which make it possible to lift economic sanctions against that country. We hope that wisdom and a balanced approach by all the participants in the negotiating process in that country, and active work on the part of the Transitional Executive Council, will become a solid basis for the successful holding of elections and the formation of a democratic, non-racial and united South Africa. Our State is paying great attention to the experience of the countries of the Asia-Pacific region. The extraordinarily fast pace of developments in some of the countries in this region is evidence of the effectiveness of pragmatic approaches to solving complex political, economic and social issues. The process of a practical development of relations with the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) countries has been initiated. We see this grouping as potentially one of the best trade and economic partners for Ukraine, inasmuch as trade between the ASEAN States - and the region as a whole - and the countries of Eastern and Central Europe flows through Ukrainian ports. We shall facilitate by all possible means the development, and the maintenance on the proper level, of relations with the States of Europe, North and South America, the Middle East and Africa. I should like to dwell briefly on the present-day situation in Ukraine. Frankly, we are experiencing difficult times now. In addition to the establishment of our own State and the rebirth of our national culture and spirit, we are undergoing a transformation to a new system with new civic and economic parameters. Our scholars, specialists and statesmen have not yet succeeded in proposing a programme of economic reforms in keeping with Ukraine’s real potential, its historical traditions and the mind-set of its people. And now we have to make major adjustments to the procedure and sequence of the reform process. Our goal is a market, socially-oriented economic system, directed at meeting the needs of our people. It should take into account economic interrelations that were, objectively, formed in the CIS, opportunities for foreign investment in our economy, and a step-by-step integration of the Ukrainian economy into that of the European Community and the world. Important steps have been taken in this regard. By adopting a law on ownership, the Verkhovna Rada has opened the road to privatization as the principal means for the transition to market-based economic relations. Important documents have been approved concerning the denationalization and privatization of enterprises, land and housing. Ukraine has declared its intention to become an associate member of the CIS economic union, and is engaged in active negotiations within the framework of the Commission of the European Communities. However, the situation in the State remains extremely complicated. In overcoming the crisis, the international community, including our compatriots abroad - the representatives of the Ukrainian diaspora - could play an important role. Our legislation sets out favourable conditions for foreign investment in the Ukrainian economy, and a number of measures have been adopted concerning participation by our State in the European and world communities and the development of bilateral trade and economic relations. Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 9 It is important to find areas that could appeal to our partners and to proceed to develop and implement specific cooperation programmes and projects. An example of this kind of cooperation can be seen in the activities that we have initiated with Commission of the European Communities and in the framework of the Black Sea economic cooperation. We are also ready to participate actively in carrying out the economic programmes being implemented within the framework of the United Nations. In this context, we are heartened by the increasing attention being paid by the United Nations and its bodies and by the economically developed countries to the processes of transition to the market economy being undertaken in the Eastern and Central European States. Favourable conditions for broadening cooperation between the United Nations and States with economies in transition, including Ukraine, have opened up as a result of the formation of integrated missions by the United Nations and the United Nations Development Programme in this field. We hope that these missions will be given permanent status. We place great hope in assistance by the international community in mitigating the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. I must say that after the appointment of United Nations Under-Secretary-General Mr. Eliasson as the United Nations Coordinator of International Cooperation for Chernobyl, activities in this area have acquired new impetus. I hope his efforts will find support in the General Assembly and will contribute to strengthening international cooperation for this purpose. In addition to the expenditures needed to mitigate the after-effects of the Chernobyl disaster, which account for a considerable part of the national income, the losses resulting from the imposition of economic sanctions by the Security Council against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia have become another great negative factor for our economy. Consequently, by the end of 1993, Ukraine will have suffered direct losses of more than $4 billion in the State sector alone. Today we need real efforts on the part of the international community to assist Ukraine in overcoming the negative impact of the sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on Ukraine’s economy as well as on the economies of a number of other countries. Our delegation is ready to propose a draft resolution which would deal with the implementation of the relevant recommendations of the Security Council and the General Assembly. Regretfully, the serious economic difficulties associated with the factors that I have mentioned were not taken into consideration when the international community last year adopted the decision, contrary to the provisions of the United Nations Charter, to increase Ukraine’s contribution to the United Nations regular budget by 58 per cent. The assessment imposed on Ukraine is not fully commensurate with its capacity to pay, and is a great burden on its economy. As a result of great efforts, this year we have managed to contribute $6.5 million to the United Nations regular budget, which otherwise could have been directed at solving the problems caused by Chernobyl. However, we cannot meet our financial obligations in full, for the reasons I have mentioned. In this context, the Government of Ukraine urges a reconsideration of the scale of assessments for the United Nations regular budget and an amendment of the existing system of financing United Nations peace-keeping operations. Our delegation is ready to offer grounds for this position during discussion of the relevant items by the Fifth Committee. The world has experienced great changes since the foundation of the United Nations. This is understandable, for, as Heraclitus said, 'Nothing endures but change'. That is why the issue of reforming the United Nations system is a quite natural one. Current realities raise new problems for the world community. Even though the danger of a global nuclear conflict has been practically eliminated, the 'local' wars and regional conflicts breaking out all over the world are causing serious concern. Interethnic armed conflicts and economic instability create favourable grounds for terrorism, the arms trade and the production and trafficking of drugs, and directly affect the security of United Nations Member States. The Chernobyl nuclear power station disaster, the environmental disorder in the Aral Sea area, the danger of an ecological catastrophe as a result of destruction of tropical forests and the depletion of the Earth’s ozone layer are but a very incomplete list of the ecological problems facing mankind. The need for change is also becoming especially urgent and even inevitable as a result of the significant events of the past few years that have radically redrawn the political map of the world; more than two dozen new independent States have emerged, thus considerably increasing the United Nations family. Let me extend to them my sincere congratulations. 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Ukraine shares the view that the present quantitative composition of the Security Council, its functioning and its working methods require appropriate adjustments, taking into consideration the new regional realities and the appearance of new participants in the international community. Implementing this proposal would increase the Council’s degree of legitimacy as the body that is entrusted by the United Nations Member States with the principal responsibility for maintaining international peace and security. At the same time, it is important to preserve the Council’s ability to respond effectively to emergencies that require prompt intervention. In changing the structure of the United Nations Security Council, it is very important to take into account the existence, beyond its present membership, of participants in the international community that are potentially capable of playing an important role in the Organization’s activities at the present time and that have substantial financial obligations to the United Nations. It is also very important to preserve in the Security Council the basic principle of equitable geographic representation. The working methods of the most representative United Nations body - the General Assembly - also require modification. It is in our interest to direct its activities, to the maximum possible extent, towards further consolidating the principles of justice, democracy and development. The delegation of Ukraine supports the decisions of the forty- seventh session aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the General Assembly and at rationalizing the work of its Main Committees. We are ready for further dialogue on the issues concerning structural changes in the sessional and subsidiary bodies of the General Assembly. This means, in particular, further decreasing the number of resolutions that are repeated and duplicated from year to year and redistributing the functions of subsidiary bodies. In our view, the reform should also involve the activities of the main economic and social forum of the United Nations, the Economic and Social Council, and should also be reflected in the structure and working methods of the Organization’s Secretariat. Ukraine fully supports the actions of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General, aimed at extending the reforms in the Secretariat, and who is acting firmly in order to increase the role and authority of the Organization, in keeping with the requirements of the time. We are facing the task of reorienting the United Nations social and economic activities in order to implement specific projects in the interest of all States, including those now on the way to the free market. For the reforms to be successful, it is also important to ensure, in practice, real zero growth in the Organization’s budget, and the effective use of its financial assets by reorientating them towards priority fields of activity. The United Nations will soon mark its fiftieth anniversary. This jubilee is a special date in the calendar of international life, but, moreover, it will be celebrated at the turn of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. It is well known that all historic dates look towards the future. Therefore, the best way to celebrate this anniversary is to concentrate on outstanding issues, analyse the emerging situation and determine what the prospects are for future development. That is why, perhaps, it is time for the world community to get together, as it did after the world wars, and creatively reappraise the realities of the post-confrontational period and, where necessary, amend existing structures of security and cooperation and division of labour in order to determine the world order for the twenty-first century. These are the considerations that impelled President Leonid Kravchuk of Ukraine to initiate the idea of convening, within the framework of the United Nations fiftieth anniversary celebrations in 1995, a global international peace summit conference. In advancing the idea of holding such an event under the auspices of the United Nations, we take it as given that this is the Organization that can convene global conferences of Ministers and Heads of States or Governments in order to weigh up complex issues and suggest comprehensive solutions. Therefore, all our thoughts today are directed towards tomorrow, to which we should come having discarded the heavy burden of the confrontational era and having drawn upon the best of the Organization’s past activities, which have enriched us with invaluable knowledge. From the collective wisdom manifested in the activities of the United Nations, we can tap the optimism so necessary for mankind today, and the faith in its positive strength and in its future. In conclusion, I should like to cite some words by Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General, which he pronounced during his recent visit to Ukraine: 'Deep involvement in the great currents of history gives Ukraine a special insight into the world today. It Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 11 qualifies Ukraine to play a full role in the new United Nations.' I wish to assure you that Ukraine will spare no effort in continuing to prove the rightness of his words. First of all, I join previous speakers in warmly congratulating Mr. Samuel Insanally on his election as President of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, and wish him success in performing this highly responsible function. At the same time, I address sincere thanks to Mr. Stoyan Ganev for the 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session competent manner in which he led this great forum during his presidency. I also take great pleasure in expressing my gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts aimed at enhancing the efficiency of the United Nations. I take this opportunity to convey cordial congratulations to the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Eritrea, Andorra and Monaco on their admission to the United Nations. Recent political developments in a number of States and at the international level brought about the end of the cold war, the abatement of the danger of a nuclear catastrophe and some other positive changes. Unfortunately, we are compelled to note at the same time the emergence of some negative phenomena, such as disastrous regional and inter-ethnic conflicts. The end of this century presents a terrible picture: countries and people torn apart by fierce fratricidal wars, towns and villages set on fire, thousands of displaced people and refugees, innocent victims, tearful women and children. The serious and complicated problems of our times - for example, those rooted in history or border disputes, and those with ethnic and religious, political and economic, social and spiritual origins, have generated various conflicts with grave consequences. These problems may lead to the outbreak of new violent confrontations in Europe that could endanger international peace and security. Under these circumstances, which are indisputable, the United Nations and other international organizations, such as the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Western European Union (WEU) and the European Economic Community (EEC) have a crucial role in stopping these unfavourable developments by the peaceful settlement of conflicts, thus leading to the strengthening of peace, international stability and security. While appreciating the European efforts to find an adequate response to new challenges to security and stability, both at the global and regional levels, we consider that the role of the United Nations in this respect remains decisive. In order to meet the new imperatives, the United Nations ought to undergo a profound reorganization and a careful reassessment of its means. The report of the Secretary-General, 'An Agenda for Peace', represents a reference point in the modern history of the United Nations and the starting-point of these necessary changes. We welcome the continuation and broadening of the debates on this matter. The recent outbreak of regional conflicts - the Yugoslav crisis in particular - reveals certain deficiencies in the international machinery dealing with peace and security issues, and indicates an urgent need for improvement. The Republic of Moldova supports the reforms initiated within the framework of the Organization and is confident of its ability to adapt itself to the new political climate. The appointment of an Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs strengthens this confidence. In our opinion, the programme of reforms should include the following three priorities: restructuring the Secretariat, rationalizing the work of the Main Committees and their working mechanisms, and reinforcing the role of the Secretary-General in his relations with the subsidiary bodies and specialized agencies. I should like to point out that our delegation has been pursuing with great interest the debates on the agenda item entitled 'Question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council'. We consider that an increase in the membership of the Council aimed at ensuring wider representation would be in full consonance with the major changes that have occurred lately in the international arena and would reflect to a much greater extent the present level of democratization in international relations. At the same time, we share the opinion that any changes should maintain and increase the efficiency of this vital organ of the United Nations, taking into account a further possible recourse to the remarkable contributions by major Powers. Over two years have passed since the Republic of Moldova proclaimed its independence. Our aspiration to become a democratic State with a market economy is absolute, notwithstanding the difficulties of transition. Our country has taken the first steps in this direction, irreversibly engaging itself on the path towards democracy. This resolute choice is reflected in our endeavours to join in international cooperation, an integral part of which is respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. The Republic of Moldova has ratified the international conventions on human rights. The Government has consistently come out in favour of assuming new commitments to adapt the Republic’s internal legal framework to international standards. Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993 15 This position of principle on human rights on the part of the Republic of Moldova was reiterated at the World Conference on Human Rights. Unfortunately, this constructive approach has been vehemently challenged by the separatist forces in Transdniestra, which are being inspired and supported from abroad. Shortly after the proclamation of independence, the pro-imperial forces started hostilities that resulted in great losses of innocent lives and flagrant violations of the basic rights of the native population, who were born and bred in areas controlled by separatists. The allegations by certain political forces and mass media in the Russian Federation that the conflict is an inter- ethnic one are simply not true. In fact, it is a political conflict aimed at rebuilding the imperial structure. These accusations by the pro-imperial forces are meant to lead people to the conclusion that human rights are being violated in the Republic of Moldova and that ethnic groups had been subject to discrimination. In this respect, I should point out that these accusations were not confirmed by the United Nations and Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) missions that visited my country on several occasions. Those same accusations were the pretext for the Russian Federation’s decision to keep up a presence by its armed forces on my country’s territory. The conditions imposed for the withdrawal of the Russian Fourteenth Army, namely that special legal status must be granted to the eastern districts of Moldova, is an attempt to keep that geographical area - including the Republic of Moldova - in Russia’s sphere of influence. The presence of foreign military forces on the territory of the Republic of Moldova is the principal source of insecurity and instability for my country. As was so rightly pointed out by the Secretary-General in his report on the work of the Organization, the question of the withdrawal of the Fourteenth Russian Army is a major stumbling-block along the way to a settlement of the conflict. In this context, I should like to thank the European Community which, in their memorandum to the General Assembly, called for an early withdrawal of foreign troops from Moldova. In fact, the Fourteenth Army has huge amounts of military hardware and enormous weapons stockpiles in Transdniestra that could easily be taken over by separatist forces: this is what happened during the escalation of hostilities in 1992. Moreover, many residents of the eastern districts continue to be illegally drafted into the Fourteenth Army. This is another example of crude interference in the internal affairs of the Republic of Moldova, and is a serious violation of international law. Thus, with the political, logistic and moral support of the Fourteenth Army, the separatist leaders are still doing everything they can to impede the talks on a political settlement of the conflict. This has prevented the implementation of the Moldovan-Russian agreement of 21 July 1992 on the principles for a peaceful settlement of the military conflict in the eastern districts of the Republic of Moldova. The high degree of politicization of the foreign military forces stationed on my country’s territory and their support for the anticonstitutional regime in Transdniestra are the main threats to the independence, integrity and security of the Republic of Moldova. At the same time, the presence of a foreign army in Moldova is the major obstacle to a peaceful settlement of the conflict in the eastern districts. We therefore consider unacceptable the Russian Federation’s insistent proposals for it to be entrusted with a United Nations mandate for peace-keeping operations in conflict zones throughout the former Soviet Union. First, we are convinced that neither the CSCE nor the United Nations have exhausted possibilities for solving these regional conflicts. Secondly, one of the basic criteria for participation in peace-keeping operations is impartiality. In view of Russia’s obvious interest in these zones and its insistence on assuming the role of peace-keeper, it is clear that these efforts are aimed at continuing and justifying its military presence on the territories of independent and sovereign States Members of the United Nations. Russia’s final goal is obviously the revival of the old imperial structures with the blessing of the international community. The acceptance of the 14th Army’s presence on the territory of the Republic of Moldova as a precedent will certainly be very dangerous, not only for the territories of the newly independent States but also for all the adjacent areas. The negotiations between the Governments of the Republic of Moldova and the Russian Federation - which began last year - on settling the terms for the withdrawal of the 14th Army have not attained any significant results. The Russian side obstructs the negotiations and displays no 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session willingness to withdraw its military forces. In these circumstances, the CSCE mission in the Republic of Moldova suggested that it participate in these negotiations. While the Moldovan party supported this initiative, the Russian party rejected it on every occasion. We note with deep concern that the constructive attitude in favour of compromise taken by the leadership of the Republic of Moldova is being repaid with a policy of fait accompli meant to separate the Transdniester area from Moldova and place a 'Trojan horse' in my country. The recent developments are relevant in this sense and deepen this concern. General Alexandr Lebed, the commander of the 14th Army was recently elected, with the tacit consent of Moscow authorities, a deputy to the so-called Supreme Soviet in the 'partial elections' that took place in the self-proclaimed 'Dniester Republic'. In this way General Lebed has proved once again his lack of good faith and his total disregard for the provisions of the agreements signed by Presidents Mircea Snegur and Boris Yeltsin. The Government of the Republic of Moldova considers that the defiant and cynical actions of General Lebed, who is a Russian citizen and the commander of a foreign army temporarily stationed on the territory of my country, constitute blatant interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign State. This action is a new attempt by certain conservative forces in Russia to recognize de facto the so-called Dniester Republic. It would probably be enlightening to recall that the self-proclaimed authorities in Transdniestria applauded with enthusiasm the putsch against Mikhail Gorbachev in August 1991. Moreover, during the recent events in Moscow, troops from Transdniestria were sent to the Russian capital to join the Communist hardliners in their fight against President Boris Yeltsin. The active participation of Transdniestrian fighters in the Moscow rebellion was a logical consequence of the close ties between the Tiraspol leadership and the reactionary Russian parliament, which violated all international norms under the false slogan of 'defending the Russians' by means of the so-called Dniester Republic and, in practice, created a bridgehead in Moldova for the restoration of the Soviet empire. In this context, I should like to inform the international community that the situation in the area of conflict continues to be tense and is very likely to become unstable. We have all accepted the general principle that a foreign army cannot be stationed on the territory of another State without the consent of the Government of the host country. I should also like to recall the appeals contained in the documents of the CSCE and the North Atlantic Cooperation Council, stating the need for complete, immediate and unconditional withdrawal of the 14th Army. In this spirit, we urge United Nations Member States to examine, with understanding and good will, a possible request for the inclusion of an additional item on the agenda of the General Assembly, on the question of the complete withdrawal of foreign military forces from the territory of the Republic of Moldova. It is my belief that the same laudable solidarity expressed by the international community with the Baltic States is urgently needed by my country, which is prevented from achieving real independence and pursuing its firm choice of democracy and freedom. We reiterate our support for resolution 47/21, on the complete withdrawal of foreign military forces from the territories of the Baltic States, and we welcome with great satisfaction the encouraging achievement of the Lithuanian people, which has finally seen its territory free of foreign troops. We deem that only the concerted action of international bodies, especially that of the CSCE and the United Nations, can ensure peace and security in our region and protect the territorial integrity and independence of the Republic of Moldova. I wish to assure this body that my Government is fully committed to doing its utmost to protect the rights of Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993 17 minorities in the Republic of Moldova and is ready to receive any international monitoring mission to ascertain the real situation. I cherish the hope that the fresh spirit emerging at the United Nations will help us to identify, by consensus, the necessary solutions for various problems the international community is facing now. My delegation is ready to make its contribution to the carrying out of efficient cooperation with other Member States in order to achieve the lofty goals of the United Nations that we are all striving for. It is with pleasure that I convey to Your Excellency at the outset of my statement, our sincerest congratulations on your election to the Presidency of the forty-eighth session of the 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session General Assembly of the United Nations. Your election reflects appreciation for you personally, as well as for the positive role played by your country in the international arena. I wish you every success in the pursuit of your mission. On this occasion, I also wish to congratulate your predecessor for his effective guidance of the affairs of the General Assembly at its previous session. I also wish to acknowledge the sincere efforts constantly exerted by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to enhance the prospects for peace and reduce the elements of tension which prevail in many parts of the world. I am also pleased to welcome, on behalf of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, all the States that have joined our Organization to participate, along with all other Member States, in realizing the noble objectives towards which we all strive. This session of the General Assembly takes place amidst important developments in the international arena that require us to strive to conclude our work with successful resolutions on the problems and crises we face. These resolutions must be within the context of our efforts to benefit from the opportunities provided by the emergence of what has come to be known as the new international order. We have all contributed, through the United Nations to establishing the new international order, the foundations of which are based on the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter and inherent in international law. This new order respects the sovereignty and independence of States and guarantees the inviolability of their international borders. It guarantees the territorial integrity of States and rejects interference in their domestic affairs. It is based on equity among nations, small and large, rich and poor, and its goal is to replace war and destruction with cooperation between nations and peoples. The new international order strives for the peaceful resolution of conflict and rejects the use of force or coercion. It operates to preserve the dignity of man and to spread security, stability, prosperity and development to all corners of our world. The emergence of this new order has been a source of hope and optimism for the international community, particularly when serious and constructive international cooperation succeeded in confronting the Iraqi aggression against the State of Kuwait. Today, however, we are saddened and pained by the inability of this order to confront the aggression committed against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a State Member of our international Organization. This crisis, if not resolved in a manner compatible with the principles of the new world order, will cause this new order to lose its credibility and effectiveness. We therefore call for enhancing the role of the United Nations from one of mere crisis management and maintenance of peace to one of active and effective peacemaking. A general overview of the current international situation reveals that there remain pockets of tension which threaten security and stability in many regions of the world. With the persistence of such challenges, the role of the United Nations is becoming increasingly important, not only for the maintenance of peace, but as an effective means for creating conditions conducive to peace and stability throughout the world. Without a doubt, the creation of such conditions will be made much easier if the opportunities for cooperation between nations are increased and support for the United Nations is strengthened so that the Organization may function in a manner that would guarantee that no country commits aggression against another or threatens its security, sovereignty or territorial integrity. The honourable role played by the United Nations more than three years ago when it stood firmly in the face of Iraq’s aggression against its neighbour Kuwait, and the resolutions it adopted led in the end to repelling aggression and restoring legality to Kuwait the peace-loving nation. This positive role portrays our expectations of this international body in the present circumstances. We hope that it will continue to be played and ask that it be enhanced by efforts to ensure the complete implementation of all Security Council resolutions regarding the Iraqi regime, which continues to flout international legality. Two years after the liberation of Kuwait, the Baghdad regime continues to resort to threats and false allegations against Kuwait. It continues to delay efforts to implement United Nations resolutions and rejects all international obligations. We point in particular to the Iraqi regime’s objections to the recommendations of the United Nations Iraq-Kuwait Boundary Demarcation Commission and its rejection of Security Council resolution 833 (1993), as well as its continued detention of Kuwaiti hostages and prisoners of war. This regime has arrogated the right, on the basis of sovereignty, to starve and abuse its people and subject Iraq to dangers which threaten its unity and security. It falsely blames the international community for the dangers and tragedies to which Iraq and its people have become subject. The surest way of facing up to the threats this regime poses Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993 19 to the region as a whole, and to the Iraqi people is to fully and completely implement Security Council resolutions. The Declaration of Principles between the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Israeli Government, signed in Washington, D.C. on 13 September 1993, has raised expectations and hopes that a just and permanent settlement can be found to the Arab-Israeli conflict, which has persisted for far too long. This development, though representing only an agreement on autonomy in the occupied Palestinian territories, beginning with Gaza and Jericho, nevertheless represents a step towards the establishment of a just, comprehensive and permanent peace between the Arab States and Israel. A solution to the Palestinian question will obviously contribute to a just and comprehensive settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict as it is the core issue of that conflict. The warm welcome with which the Palestinian-Israeli agreement was received within Palestinian, Arab and international circles genuinely and clearly reflects the desire of the Arabs to establish a permanent, just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East. It also indicates the seriousness with which the Arab side has pursued the current peace process, which was launched in Madrid in October 1991 under the sponsorship of the United States of America and the Russian Federation. As we witness today the optimism generated by the Palestinian-Israeli agreement, we cannot but feel that it is incumbent upon the international community to lend support to the progress that has been achieved in this area by providing the necessary economic and developmental assistance required to build the administrative structures needed to make the agreement on self-rule succeed. At the same time, it is also incumbent upon us to work diligently to exploit the momentum generated by this agreement in furthering the cause of peace. The consolidation of this step requires the achievement of tangible and positive results in the areas of negotiation between Palestinians and Israelis; at the forefront of those are the issue of Al-Quds, which is an integral part of the occupied Arab territories, the issue of the return of Palestinian refugees, and the settlements built by Israel in the occupied Arab territories contrary to international law and the Geneva Conventions. At the same time, genuine progress along all the other bilateral negotiating tracks is needed. The issue of the occupied Arab Syrian Golan Heights is clear: it is governed by the principle of respect for international borders. The maintenance of security is not feasible, as the realities of contemporary history teach us, through the occupation of territory by force, but rather through the establishment of peace. Thus, peace on this front will be achieved only by a complete Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Golan Heights. Likewise, the Lebanese-Israeli negotiating track is governed by United Nations Security Council resolution 425 (1978), which clearly calls for the immediate, unconditional withdrawal of Israeli forces from all Lebanese territory. I wish to express the appreciation of the Government of the Custodian of the two holy mosques to President Clinton for his prudent initiative in calling for, and hosting, an international donors’ conference to solicit political and financial support for the Palestinians as they prepare to assume the responsibilities of self-rule in the occupied territories. I also wish to take this opportunity to express our pleasure at the positive results achieved at that conference. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has given, and continues to give, its full support in all possible forms to the Middle East peace process since it began in Madrid. It has participated effectively in the multilateral talks, and genuinely hopes that the process will lead to a just, permanent and comprehensive solution to the Palestinian question and the Arab conflict with Israel on the basis of United Nations Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). Despite the financial burdens the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia bears in building an advanced economy in which the expectations of its citizens for a better future are fulfilled, and despite its current international obligations at a time of difficulty in the international economic system, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia participated in the international donors’ conference that recently concluded its meetings in Washington. The Custodian of the two holy mosques has bestowed upon me the honour of announcing the Kingdom’s commitment to providing substantial developmental assistance to improve the infrastructures in the West Bank and Gaza Strip in coordination and cooperation with the World Bank’s special five-year programme for the occupied territories. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia will participate, through the Saudi development fund, to the tune of $100 million for the year 1994. We believe that this assistance will improve the living conditions of our 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Palestinian brethren in the occupied Arab territories and contribute positively to the peace process. The Lebanese Government has made great strides in its efforts to implement the Taif Accords, and has taken the necessary political and constitutional measures to achieve this aim. We must continue our support for the efforts of the legitimate Lebanese authorities and contribute to the process of reconstruction in Lebanon. In this regard, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia appeals to the international community to help Lebanon by all available means in order to enable its Government to continue moving forward with the process of reconstruction and allow Lebanon to regain its material and cultural position. It is important to reiterate the need, if this goal is to be achieved, for an Israeli commitment to implement, fully and unconditionally, United Nations Security Council resolution 425 (1978), which requires Israel to withdraw from Lebanese territory to enable the Lebanese Government to extend its legal authority over all Lebanon. We should like to emphasize our desire for the Middle East region to obtain its legitimate share of security, peace and stability so that it is able to direct all its energies towards development and devote all its resources towards prosperity for its people. One of the most important tasks facing us in this respect is to strive towards the elimination of weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is a signatory to the Convention on the non-proliferation of chemical weapons and the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We continue to believe that the goal of making the Middle East a region free of all kinds of weapons of mass destruction, whether nuclear, chemical or biological, will be realized only when all States in the region, including Israel, refrain from the production, stockpiling, or possession of any kind of weapon of mass destruction. The situation in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is being aggravated by the continuation of a genocidal war waged by Serb forces, with the support of Serbia and Montenegro, against that young Republic. The continuing tragedy of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has resulted in the death of thousands of innocent civilians and the displacement of a large portion of its citizens, would not have occurred were it not for the apparent indifference of the international community. This attitude allowed the forces of aggression to benefit from their aggression, and to continue their abhorrent policy of 'ethnic cleansing' without fear of retribution. This feeble stand on the part the international community, particularly the European countries, was reflected in the inability to implement comprehensively the resolutions of the London Conference, upon which we had rested great hopes. It is also reflected in the failure of the Vance-Owen plan and the collapse of the subsequent Geneva talks on refugees. The international community’s dereliction of its responsibilities vis-á-vis the Serb aggression has emboldened the Croats to embark upon a similar course of making gains by means of force and coercion. Against such a backdrop, it was strange indeed that when Croatia was targeted by Serbian aggression, the international community, and especially the European nations, were quick to stand by Croatia and provide military assistance that contributed to the success of international efforts to achieve a peaceful settlement, whereas the international community’s feeble stance in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its failure to implement the international resolutions calling for the imposition of economic sanctions on Serbia and Montenegro, have deprived that young Republic of the means of exercising its legitimate right to self-defence. Those resolutions and the sanctions they call for remained dead letter and were not seriously implemented until it was too late, after the Serbs had rejected the Vance-Owen Plan, which the Bosnians and Croats had accepted. What really shocks and amazes us is that this war of aggression is being waged on the European soil whereas history teaches us that such wars on that soil have never been limited wars but have always overspilled beyond the borders. However, no one seems to be paying any attention to those object-lessons. While we hope that the history of Europe’s wars will not repeat itself, we hope that the solutions that are being proposed do not turn out to be the seeds of future conflicts and disputes. We hope that the international community will give serious consideration to the demands of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina so that it may be saved from any repetition of the policies of aggression and 'ethnic cleansing'. The geographical demands of that young nation should be satisfied by granting it access to the sea as well as providing it with the means of legitimate self-defence, in consonance with the principles of the United Nations Charter. Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993 21 The principled stand by the people and Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in support of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina emanates from their strong and total adherence to international legality and respect for international law and not from any religious fanaticism or ethnic affinity. It is the same principled stand that was taken by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in support of Kuwait when it fell victim to the Iraqi regime’s aggression. Somalia continues to be in the grip of instability and political chaos, with all the attendant acts of violence and bloodshed, despite all the efforts deployed to help that nation out of its plight. International efforts, during the Conference for National Reconciliation held at Addis Ababa, focused on the preservation of the Somali State and the maintenance of its independence and territorial integrity. Unfortunately, the required steps have not been taken for the serious implementation of that Agreement. The role of the United Nations has been limited to the distribution of humanitarian assistance to those in need at a time when the role it is expected to play within the new world order is to contribute to peacemaking and to the stabilization of the Somali State. Such measures should help to establish a Somali Government that can extend its authority throughout Somalia. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has made a number of attempts to contain the conflict in Somalia and has tried to bring about national reconciliation among the various factions. It will continue to deploy efforts to stop the bloodshed and to provide humanitarian assistance and relief. We support the Secretary-General’s recommendations in his report to the Security Council, on the means of helping re- establish Somalia’s constitutional institutions and on the efforts needed to reach national reconciliation and to rebuild Somalia. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia stood by the fraternal people of Afghanistan throughout their jihad and celebrated with them their victory over the forces of brutal occupation in the struggle for restoring their national identity. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia spared no effort in working for reconciliation when the infighting started between the various mujahidin factions. Those efforts were crowned with the signing of the Mecca Agreement and the initiation of steps towards its implementation. A National Government that combined all factions of the Afghan mujahidin was established. We take this opportunity to urge our brethren in Afghanistan to comply with the terms of the agreement so that Afghanistan may begin to move towards reconstruction and development and regain its place and role in the international community. It must be noted that that part of the world continues to suffer as a result of the problem of Jammu and Kashmir, which continues to be an element of instability in the region. The Government of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques follows with great concern the ongoing violence there. We are keen on finding a solution on the basis of United Nations resolutions to this long-standing problem that has overshadowed the relations of the two neighbours, India and Pakistan. Among the other conflicts in Asia I would refer to the tragic developments resulting from the worsening conflict between two United Nations Member States, the Republic of Azerbaijan and the Republic of Armenia. That conflict has recently resulted in the occupation by Armenia of parts of Azerbaijan. We consider that occupation to be a breach of the principle of the peaceful resolution of conflicts, and emphasize the importance of withdrawal by Armenia’s forces from Azerbaijan’s territory in order to transfer that issue to the negotiating table with the aim of reaching a peaceful and just settlement that would ensure the legitimate rights of the people of Azerbaijan. Our joint and serious efforts towards consolidating the underpinnings of the new world order aim at making it possible to address the issues of development and the creation of an international economic environment in which financial resources would be diverted from arms races to economic and social development. Those efforts are in keeping with our ambitions and the aspirations of our peoples for a better world of peace, prosperity and security. Such an enterprise requires the cooperation of the developed industrial nations by opening their markets to the products of the developing nations, the elimination of protectionist measures, ensuring an early successful outcome to the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade talks and finding an urgent, rapid solution to the debt problem. On the other hand, economic cooperation between the developing countries themselves is a paramount issue and represents a fundamental tool for consolidating international economic growth. My Government attaches great importance to issues relating to the world economic system. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia represents a State open to the world, interacting with all the trends and developments that affect it. Thus, we are keen on preserving the health and strength of the world economy, and we are concerned by the disruptions and turmoil that affect its course and development. It is on that basis that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is participating positively in the ongoing discussions on energy and environment. We have shouldered our 22 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session responsibilities in this regard and have played an active role in international discussions to find a workable and balanced solution to global warming based on proven scientific evidence. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is convinced that the future of this world, its prosperity, and the well-being of its inhabitants, depend on a clear understanding of the environmental problems that face us all and on fully understanding the consequences of the policies adopted in dealing with those problems. This requires delicate balancing of the burdens and commitments of each and every State in addressing problems of the environment. Due consideration should be given also to the situation of every energy producing or consumer developing country and the effects of environmental policies on the economic growth of those countries. Such an approach will certainly contribute to the achievement of comprehensive development and to the betterment of our peoples’ standards of living so that they may all enjoy prosperity, peace, security and stability. The current international circumstances, resulting from the ending of the cold war, together with the progress achieved in arms control and reductions of conventional weapons afford us a rare opportunity for channelling the financial windfall towards solving the problems of development and economic backwardness. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has been at the forefront of Islamic States that have adhered to the Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam, issued by the Organization of the Islamic Conference on 5 August 1990. This Cairo Declaration should be regarded as a tributary providing the proper foundation for positive and practical international cooperation and flowing into the main stream of universal support for human rights and freedoms. Most particularly, the Declaration expresses the will of over 1 billion people, which by any measure grants it a universal character. While the principles and objectives of human rights are universal in nature, their application must take into consideration the diversity of societies and their historical, cultural, and religious backgrounds and legal systems. We should not rush to the creation of mechanisms that would only deepen differences and disregard the sort of sensitivities that became noticeable during the World Conference on Human Rights that was held recently in Vienna. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is a developing society firmly based on the rules that constitute the pillars of Islamic civilization. It is a society that has firmly set itself to face up to the challenges of our times with determination and confidence, and it is a society undergoing evolution and significant reform. Its reforms are guided by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Fahd Bin Abdul-Aiz, and embodied in the basic laws of governance, the Charter of the Majlis al-Shura - the consultative council - and the laws of the provinces. These laws place upon the State the primary responsibility for the protection of human rights in accordance with the Islamic Shariah and determine the relationship between ruler and ruled on the basis of brotherhood, consultation, loyalty and cooperation. I am pleased to inform this body that the members of the Majlis al-Shura and those of the provincial councils have been named. These institutions are now making serious preparations to embark upon their appointed tasks and to serve their faith, their King, and their nation. This important step in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s development paves the way for participation by Saudi citizens in sharing the responsibility for confidently building a promising and hopeful future. Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993 23 The political and economic challenges we face which abound on this session’s agenda, put a great burden of responsibility on us all towards our peoples and nations. Our common future will depend on the way we face up to those challenges. In the light of the current international situation and of the emergence of a new international outlook which rejects fanaticism and ossification and confirms a desire for openness and progress, we harbour great hopes that we shall be able to surmount those challenges. In so doing, we must take into consideration the fact that the new international order will not be able to provide us with the peace, justice and development we desire unless we give it the opportunity to do just that. I am particularly pleased to congratulate Ambassador Insanally on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly, which does honour to the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States. We know that he has long-standing close personal ties to Chile. It has been our lot to witness and to be a part of events of far-reaching significance in the history of mankind. The political, technological, economic and social changes that have shaken the world over the past 10 years are beginning to take root, and as they do so the enormous influence they have had on the establishment of new forms of behaviour, new values and new institutional schemes is becoming apparent. The maintenance of democracy as the single paradigm has brought with it beneficial influences, although for some the establishment of this system of coexistence has given rise to upheavals which are not yet over. But we can afford a measure of realistic optimism if we fix our attention on other developments. The beginnings of an agreement between Palestinians and Israelis are a tangible example of this. Another is the awakening of South Africa to true democracy. The spirit of consensus that is beginning to spread throughout the world is a consequence of the democratic paradigm. Against this new backdrop, the United Nations has a vital role to play. At this juncture, then, there are grounds for optimism, and we have a duty to be optimistic. For only in being optimistic will we be able to overcome the reluctance of some and the temptation of others to take refuge in fundamentalism. It is also imperative for us to take a firm stand against a kind of rigidity of approach which is gaining ground in the world. This is the tendency to treat systems as if they were incontrovertible truths. It is the transfer of dogma to sciences that are not at all exact. And this is happening at a time when advances in human knowledge are demonstrating precisely that what is vital today is to open our minds to reason and to distance ourselves as far as possible from dogmatism. We are living in a world which has ceased to be foreign. No human reality is alien to us. No suffering is remote. No triumph of intelligence is a private matter. But globalization does not mean uniformity. What is more, without respect for differences, it would cease to have the vigour it exhibits today. Its competitiveness would be lost, and the concept of one world would inevitably find itself on its deathbed. This is the world in which we have to live and move, a world plagued by disturbing yet, paradoxically, stimulating contradictions. It is in such a world that we must strive to seize the opportunity to take positive initiatives, without prejudices, and come closer to the innermost reality of man. This is why we are now striving to make progress in the defence of universal humanitarian law. This concept is inherent in the new vision of the world, and Chile comes forward as its most resolute proponent. It is this concept which has led the 'Blue Helmets' in the past three years to take on as many missions as they conducted between the end of the Second World War and the beginning of the 1990s. The United Nations troops serve the invaluable objective of peacemaking and rebuilding coexistence, a task which we must perform if we are to meet adequately the need to strike the proper balance between local sensitivity and global sensitivity. The number of problems that are worldwide in scope has greatly increased. Whether through rigidity in the application of the system or through shortcomings in the system itself, we are witnessing some tragic consequences. Millions of human beings are suffering from poverty. Nor is the tragedy confined to the poor nations. We are witnessing a worldwide social crisis. It has left its mark on the developed countries as well. Social marginalization is a reality which has taken on truly disturbing dimensions hitherto unknown in those latitudes. Chile’s present Government has always viewed economic development as inseparable from social development. We see the economy not as an end in itself, but as a means by which humanity can attain happiness. This is our objective, and this is what has led President Patricio Aylwin to assign the priority to dealing with what we have termed the social debt. This term encompasses the recognition that society as a whole must accord to the poor. This idea has gained ground. As a result, the Chilean initiative regarding the convening of a world summit for social development has been positively received. The meeting, to be held at Copenhagen in 1995, will be a tangible demonstration of this concern on the part of the United Nations. My country is confident that we will make every effort necessary to ensure that the Copenhagen meeting arrives at appropriate and specific solutions. The environment is favourable, which makes us feel that we shall be able to conclude the summit with an 'agenda or programme for people', one essential element of which must be broader, more effective and more united international cooperation. Today’s world poses questions which must be answered without delay. Poverty, hunger and other social scourges are perceived as aberrations. Their eradication is the task of the 38 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session international community as a whole. In this task, the United Nations will play a decisive role. It has the capacity to take the leadership, which means channelling international cooperation. Furthermore, we recognize that the United Nations has a fundamental role to play in dealing with the relevant issues. In the specific field of international peace and security, my country has repeatedly stressed its support for the action taken by the Secretary-General, and Chile advocates the strengthening of his role, particularly with respect to preventive diplomacy. We hail his report 'An Agenda for Peace' as a valuable and significant aid to Governments. We look forward with interest to the forthcoming publication of an agenda for development, which we intend to consider with the greatest enthusiasm. In the same spirit of cooperation, we have conveyed to the Secretary-General suggestions regarding the benefits that might derive from an increase in the number of members of the Security Council. Because of the great importance of that body, any change that is proposed should reflect the very clear political will of the majority. I want to put great emphasis on this point. We view the changes in the Security Council as part of a wide-ranging exercise aimed at strengthening the United Nations. No reform can be viable if its sole aim is to grant some degree of political recognition to certain emerging Powers. The aim of our proposal is that appropriate account be taken of the new international reality. At the same time, it seeks to reflect the increase in the membership of the Organization since the last time the Council was enlarged. In our suggestions to the Secretary-General, we indicate the need for the reform to result in a limited membership. This will enable us to ensure efficiency and to achieve our objectives of democratization. In this context, we feel that it is important that the various regions of the world be duly represented. This will enable us to combine the idea of democratization with the balance that is essential. Regarding the right of veto, we agree with many nations that this is not a democratic means of decision-making. For this reason we wish to make it clear that we are opposed to its being extended to new permanent members of the Council. In line with these ideas, Chile has raised the possibility of the Council’s comprising permanent members, permanent members without the right of veto, regional members with an extended term, and non-permanent members. Still in the context of the protection of democracy, we cannot fail to mention that at the regional level too new circumstances have led to changes in the instruments available to the Organization of American States (OAS). Clear evidence of this is the Santiago 'Commitment to democracy and the renewal of the inter-American system' approved at the General Assembly of the OAS held in the capital of Chile in 1991. This new approach has already yielded results. The OAS has achieved successes that would previously have been impossible in the region - particularly in the field of the protection of democracy and human rights. Of concern to us, together with steps in these two sensitive areas, is decisive action for the protection of nature. Currently, Chile holds the chairmanship of the environment commission established within the organization. In addition, my country has joined in the effort to combat drug trafficking. Accordingly, we support various initiatives aimed at drafting new legal instruments to combat this scourge effectively. Likewise - returning to the world scene - we attach special importance to the process of restructuring in the economic and social sector. This will raise the possibility of saving millions of human beings who are currently marginalized, living in minimal security conditions. In our view, cooperation for development should become one of the most solid pillars of the international agenda for the twenty- first century. We shall continue to put forward ideas and to support initiatives, in the Group of 77 and any other body, that will serve to advance the negotiations. President Aylwin’s Government has striven to make international cooperation a reality. We have participated in various activities within the programme of technical cooperation between developing countries. Currently, we have projects in 43 countries, and 70 institutions from the public and private sectors are participating in them. There is an active current of cooperation with our neighbours in Central America, the Caribbean and South America. Also under way are projects that link us with Mexico. Similarly, we have programmes with the People’s Republic of China, India, Indonesia and the Philippines. Recently, contacts have been established with African countries and with South Pacific island territories. All of this forms part of a deliberate policy aimed at strengthening links with the Latin American and Caribbean nations and at establishing close ties with all developing countries. Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 39 An outstanding feature of the major changes taking place throughout the world is the important role being assumed by the Pacific basin in political, economic and strategic terms. Chile is a coastal State of that ocean, and our identification with the basin is one of the most innovative elements in the foreign policy being pursued by President Aylwin. We have made a sustained effort to associate ourselves with the main agreements on cooperation in the Pacific region. Since 1990, Chilean business has been participating actively in the Pacific Basin Economic Council, and since 1991 Chile has been a full member of the Pacific Economic Cooperation Council. We hope also to join the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council, as we view this as an important means of promoting the liberalization of regional and world-wide trade. In this effort we have received valuable support from the States members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations, and for this we are grateful. In another context, I cannot fail to take this opportunity to mention an issue that is of special significance to the developing world. I refer to the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). The renewal of these negotiations provides some grounds for hope. The so-called Dunkel text is very far from meeting our legitimate aspirations, although it does constitute a major advance in the current situation. Unfortunately, nonetheless, it embodies a number of limitations on genuine freedom of trade. The most difficult issue in the Uruguay Round has been trade in agricultural products, which, for the nations of Latin America -for developing countries in general - is of vital importance. Hence our lively interest in what is happening in GATT. Insistence on intransigent positions, which objectively impede world trade, creates insurmountable barriers to development - a situation to which we cannot remain indifferent. Chile has fully discharged its commitment to the collective security system. We regard this United Nations initiative as highly appropriate in the current international situation. My country has participated in a number of peace-keeping operations. It has sent military observers to the Middle East and to the frontier between India and Pakistan; police officers to El Salvador; air force personnel to Kuwait; and army personnel to Cambodia. In discussing this issue, we cannot overlook the financing difficulties that peace-keeping operations are facing. We support the steps being taken by the Secretary-General of the United Nations to overcome these problems. Unquestionably, however, in our view, any discussion of peace is incomplete if it does not refer to the progress made in relation to disarmament. The Convention on chemical weapons is a significant achievement. We trust that the work initiated with a view to the signing of a comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty will follow the same course. At this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, I wish briefly to evaluate the results Chile has achieved in some of the areas to which it attaches priority in the restoration of democracy. Let me refer first to our reintegration into the international community. In the multilateral sphere, we can point to the generous support of our peers, which has enabled us to become members of the Economic and Social Council, the Commission on Human Rights, the International Law Commission and the Executive Council of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), and to the election of our Ambassador to the United Nations, Juan Somavia, as President of the Economic and Social Council and Chairman of the Preparatory Committee of the World Summit for Social Development. In keeping with its mandate, President Aylwin’s Government sees human rights as another of the objectives towards which its actions are directed, both domestically and in foreign policy. The latter aspect reflects a traditional position of our country: that of encouraging respect for international law and promoting peace and justice. At the same time, however, it is the least we can do by way of reciprocating the enormous solidarity the international community has extended to the Chilean people at the most difficult moment in its history. It will be the task of the General Assembly at this session to begin the implementation of the agreements contained in the Plan of Action adopted at the second World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna at the beginning of this year. Along with its re-emergence on the international scene and its protection of human rights and democracy, Chile has set itself the goal of working for effective regional integration. Here, too, we can point to major achievements. Our relations with our Latin American and Caribbean brothers 40 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session could not be better. Agreements that have already been signed and various others that are in the drafting stage - some 220 agreements and treaties in four years - bear witness to this fact. To that same end, we have worked for the strengthening of the Rio Group; we currently have the honour to be coordinating its temporary secretariat. That institution is the embodiment of a modern approach to international relations. It embodies the will of the region in its relations with individual countries or groups of countries outside the region. This forum for political consensus already has significant achievements to its credit on various levels. Moreover, it is a clear demonstration of what we can aspire to if we manifest imagination, political openness and realism. Special mention needs to be made of the understanding we have reached with our neighbours. The understanding, generosity and vision of the future exhibited by the Heads of State of Argentina, Bolivia, Peru and Chile have allowed us to settle issues which in some cases had been dragging on for more than a century. While respecting our respective traditions and abiding by the inviolable principles of international law, including non-intervention and the sanctity of treaties as the source of rights, we have nevertheless understood that, as the twenty-first century approaches, it will be useful to exchange ideas about our national aspirations, inasmuch as they promote the maintenance of peace. It is a great honour for me to be addressing the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. The four years I have represented Chile in this important forum, whether accompanying President Aylwin or personally, have been an enriching experience. The period in which we have the good fortune to be living demands increasingly dynamic and effective responses. The world is moving towards a new structure which will undoubtedly afford us the possibility of moving ever closer to satisfying the needs of human beings. But whether we can make this a reality will depend on the intelligence with which we confront the future. I have every confidence in the rich sap that nourishes this spreading tree, which shelters us all. The United Nations has before it a glorious future in working for the cause of peace. But that future will be possible only if we demonstrate the imagination to be bold, the knowledge to move ahead, the love to understand that to strive for the common good is always a viable option, the solidarity to be more human and the wisdom not to repeat the mistakes of the past. Members of the Assembly, my good wishes go with you. It is a great honour and privilege, Sir, for me to address this Assembly under your presidency. Your election is a tribute to you and to your great country, Guyana. It furthermore attests to the international community’s confidence in your ability to carry out the duties of President of the General Assembly during the next 12 months. I have no doubt that, given your sterling qualities, you will guide this session to a successful conclusion. I also wish to commend your distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of the Republic of Bulgaria, for the able and outstanding manner in which he conducted the affairs of the forty-seventh session. I would also like to express my delegation’s acknowledgement of the dedicated manner in which the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has been directing the work of our Organization during this crucial period. On behalf of the Government and the people of Nigeria, I welcome all the new Member States, fully confident of the useful contribution they can make in furtherance of the noble objectives of the United Nations. The relevance of our great Organization to the solution of the common problems facing humanity is more manifest today than at any time in our history. The complexity of these pressing concerns and the need to act rapidly and with resolve demand a greater degree of concerted efforts by members of the international community. Events happening around us demonstrate the urgency of this imperative. In the last few years, the international landscape has witnessed unprecedented transformations and rapid changes. The cold war has become a thing of the past. Progress has been made in nuclear disarmament. The wave of democratization which has been sweeping across the world has not diminished in intensity or breadth. The search for greater prosperity through emerging regional economic arrangements is spreading. In spite of the inherent benefits of all these developments, no sooner do we succeed in resolving one set of problems than we are confronted with new and more challenging ones. Indeed, the promise of global peace and security and the vision of a new world order are inhibited by political and ethnic conflicts, economic and social disorder, and deepening poverty, particularly in developing countries. In this connection, the consequences of feeble gestures or inaction are just too frightening to contemplate. It is therefore necessary to draw attention to the major concerns so that they can be fully addressed with a view to finding lasting solutions which are just and beneficial to every member of the international community. In view of the positive changes in the international political environment, the United Nations has been placed at the centre of conflict resolution, having been accorded its rightful place in the promotion and maintenance of international peace and security. Unfortunately, our Organization is being overwhelmed by the avalanche of conflicts which it is suddenly called upon to resolve. Practically all regions of the world are embroiled in one conflict or another. No region, however, is as afflicted as Africa, either in the number of conflicts currently raging or in their unimaginable negative effects on people. In one conflict alone - that of Angola - as many as 1,000 people are reported to be dying each day. Angola is not alone in the unenviable situation created by civil conflict: Sudan, Somalia and Liberia can be cited. Regional conflicts constitute a key threat to the achievement of global peace and security. This is why we welcome the active and increased involvement of the United Nations in peace-keeping and peace-building efforts. The role of our Organization in these areas will continue to expand as more States call on it for assistance in preventing or containing conflicts. Member States have the duty to support fully the work of the Organization in this very important role. They must be prepared to provide the Organization with the resources and the personnel it requires to cope with ever-growing peace-keeping demands. The price of peace may be high; we must be conscious, however, that it is a far better bargain compared with the price of war. In this connection, the recent mammoth and multifaceted peace-keeping operation in Cambodia gives cause for great optimism. The United Nations must direct its peace-keeping operations in a manner that does not jeopardize its integrity or expose its peace-keepers to avoidable danger. Furthermore, it must be made clear to those who commit acts of aggression against United Nations peace-keepers that they will be adjudged guilty of crimes against the international community. The safety of United Nations peace-keepers is of utmost concern to countries which, like Nigeria, participate in many operations within and outside Africa. I recall that, while on peace-keeping duty in the former Yugoslavia, Nigerian troops were subjected to attack resulting in casualties. The same is happening in Somalia, where Pakistani, Italian, Nigerian, American and Malaysian peace-keepers have been brutally killed. The national trauma occasioned by the loss of lives in United Nations peace-keeping missions gives rise to anxieties and doubts. However, I wish to assure this body that Nigeria will continue to demonstrate its commitment to the United Nations by continued participation in its peace-keeping operations. It is in this same spirit of service that Nigeria is seeking election to the Security Council this year. I hope that Member States will give their valuable support to Nigeria’s candidature. In Africa, we have also made great efforts to contain and resolve conflicts in our continent. Nigeria has been involved in many of these efforts to bring peace to embattled areas. At the bilateral level, we hosted peace conferences of the parties to the conflict in the Sudan. We have, through the Organization of African Unity, joined other African States to monitor the cease-fire in Rwanda. In Liberia, Nigeria has been the moving force in the regional effort to bring peace to that war-torn country through the Military Observer Group (ECOMOG) of the Economic Community of West African States. Because of positive developments in Liberia, we have indicated our intention to withdraw our troops at the appropriate time. This decision was based on the successful conclusion and acceptance of the Cotonou Agreement. All the parties to the conflict and the international community accept the Cotonou Agreement as the basis for durable peace in Liberia. If, as we hope, the accord is faithfully implemented, a democratically elected Government will have been installed in Liberia within the time-frame envisaged for the withdrawal of our troops. While we do not, therefore, contemplate a premature withdrawal, through this forum I call upon the international community to bear in mind that Nigeria has expended and continues to expend a significant amount in the peace-keeping operation in Liberia. Urgent international support to the ECOMOG effort has become crucial. Nigeria therefore welcomes Security Council resolution 866 (1993) of 21 September 1993, which set up the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia (UNOMIL) and called upon Member States to support the peace process in Liberia by contributing to the Trust Fund being Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 3 established by the Secretary-General. Early implementation will be absolutely necessary to sustain the process. A cheering development in our continent is taking place in South Africa, where a democratic Government is now within sight. The doyen of South African nationalists, Nelson Mandela, confirmed the irreversibility of the march towards an apartheid-free society in his statement in this Hall two weeks ago. As evidence of his conviction, he called for the lifting of the remaining economic sanctions on South Africa. I wish, in the name of Nigeria, to congratulate South African leaders, black and white, who in the past two years have shown great statesmanship in the negotiations that have resulted in the establishment by law of the Transitional Executive Council. South Africa has come a long way out of its apartheid- induced isolation. The international community should assist the South Africans in completing the process of full integration into the international system. To this end, those responsible for the mindless violence occurring daily should be unreservedly condemned. All South Africans should realize that the watchful eyes of the international community continue to be focused on their country. Nigeria will take immediate steps to respond to Nelson Mandela’s call for economic cooperation with South Africa. We shall also commence such contacts with the Transitional Executive Council, when it is physically established, as will facilitate diplomatic interaction at the appropriate time. The road to democracy and the nurturing of democratic institutions in Africa have not been smooth. Indeed, the democratic enterprise in Africa faces many problems. Africa’s economic underdevelopment and high level of illiteracy constitute major impediments to our attainment of democracy in its modern concept. But such has been our fascination with democracy as a value deeply rooted in our culture that we in Africa have willingly decided to face up to the challenge of putting in place an enduring system of democratic governance in our respective countries. I can say confidently that this is an enterprise my country has taken seriously. Our programme of transition from military to civilian rule has not been without its difficult moments. However, we have not allowed them to deter us from our cherished goal. We are determined not to repeat the mistakes of our earlier attempts to evolve a system that would preserve the corporate unity of our country. It was, therefore, to ensure that the democratic process could be completed within the shortest possible period - indeed, by March 1994 - that the Interim National Government, which I have the honour and privilege to lead, was seen as the most viable option to ease the military out of power without bloodshed. We in Nigeria fully understand and appreciate the interest and concern shown by the international community regarding recent political events in our country. After all, democratization has become a major component of the emerging new world order. We therefore appeal for the understanding of the international community in this difficult period in our nation’s history. I can assure this Assembly that we are working very hard to find a just and generally acceptable solution to our problem. In this connection, I am happy to state that only yesterday I inaugurated a high-powered Commission of Eminent Persons to look into the circumstances leading to the annulment of the 12 June presidential election and submit a report within 60 days. Nigeria has always respected the purposes and principles contained in the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Aware that the human person is the central subject and main beneficiary of human rights, we fully believe that every citizen should participate actively, within legal limits, in the realization of these rights. We welcome the Vienna Declaration on human rights and will, therefore, continue to be committed to the freedom of all citizens and institutions that are engaged in human-rights activities. One of the sad consequences of human-rights violations is the incidence of refugees and displaced persons - people fleeing from insecurity to safe havens, either within or outside their national territories. Today, several countries, including Nigeria, cater for the needs of millions of refugees. We urge the countries of origin of these people to create an environment conducive to their return. This would help to reduce the severity of the impact of refugee flows on host nations, particularly in Africa, which are themselves faced with excruciating economic difficulties. Nigeria notes with great satisfaction that the situation in the Middle East has taken a definite turn for the better. The 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session historic signing of the peace agreement by Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) is a welcome and important landmark. We are convinced that this will lay the foundation for peace between Israel and the Palestinians and will constitute an indispensable element for the peaceful resolution of the entire Middle East problem. We again congratulate the Government of Israel and the leadership of the PLO, whose spirit of conciliation made the agreement a reality. We also commend the Governments of Norway, the United States of America and the Russian Federation for their efforts and their encouragement and support, which made the peace agreement possible. The debt crisis remains the most serious obstacle to our economic development. The various attempts of creditor countries to address this problem have been limited in scope and have failed adequately to deal with the debt problem of middle-income countries. Therefore, while noting with appreciation the relief provided under the Trinidad, Toronto and Houston terms, we must emphasize that the fundamental crisis in the economic development of developing countries has not been effectively addressed. The fact that the debt of African countries in 1992 amounted to $275 billion - about 73 per cent of the total output of the African continent - demonstrates clearly the seriousness of the situation. Moreover, when it is borne in mind that debt-servicing obligations are estimated at about 30 per cent of the value of our exports, the crippling effect on our economies becomes apparent. We therefore propose a dialogue involving all the parties to enable the issues to be properly addressed. The various dimensions of Africa’s economic problems are worth repeating, as we who are at the receiving end of the economic dislocation of varying degrees that affects most African countries realize the necessity of continuing to draw our economic plight to the attention of the rest of the world. This matter must not be regarded lightly. The African economic crisis, as well as being a major source of the prevailing social and political turmoil in many countries of the region, must be seen as a serious threat to the longer- term prospects for the global economy. Let me be so bold as to say that the persistence of the crisis is not due to inaction on the part of the African Governments concerned. On the contrary - taking the example of my country - the truth is that our determination to face up to the challenge of development is obvious from the policy reforms we have been implementing for nearly seven years in order to restructure and revitalize the economy. These reforms are already yielding some positive results, but not of the magnitude that we regard as necessary if there is to be a significant upturn in the economy. It would not be far-fetched to suggest that the fact that the economic reforms that have been put in place have enjoyed only limited success is apparently due to lack of adequate support from the international community to complement our genuine efforts to revamp our respective economies. For instance, the flow of external finance to African countries still leaves much to be desired, despite the efforts made in recent years by countries like mine to ensure a climate conducive to foreign investment. We therefore urge a change of heart on the part of our development partners, as this will be mutually beneficial. We also call on the United Nations system to mobilize its machinery fully so that lingering African economic problems may be addressed effectively. Today, Africa faces daunting environmental problems too. Desertification, drought, soil and marine erosion and shortage of fresh water are new difficulties confronting the continent. Two fifths of Africa’s land mass has turned into desert. African countries continue to make efforts to arrest this threat to our livelihood. However, we do not have sufficient resources to combat the scourge. We therefore urge the speedy conclusion of an international convention, complete with a funding mechanism, to combat drought and desertification. In the aftermath of the cold war, appreciable progress has been made in the field of disarmament. It is comforting to note that, to a greater extent than during any other period in recent history, significant efforts have been made by States to achieve openness and transparency with regard to security issues. The unilateral decision of the nuclear- weapon States to halt nuclear testing was universally applauded. Needless to say, therefore, we were disappointed at the breach of the moratorium that occurred a few days ago. We appeal once again to all nuclear-weapon States to refrain from resuming nuclear testing and, thereby, enhance the prospects for the non-proliferation Treaty review and extension Conference in 1995, which will be crucial to efforts to halt nuclear proliferation. Since the creation of the United Nations 48 years ago, the world in which the Organization exists has undergone many changes. These changes are reflected in its membership, which, since 1945, has almost quadrupled. The distribution of power and influence in the world has changed. The institutions of the United Nations cannot and should not be immune to the changes. Indeed, in order to maintain its relevance, the United Nations must reflect the changes in its environment. We renew our call for a serious review of some of the institutions of the Organization - particularly the Security Council. We have always stressed Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 5 the need to expand the membership of the Council by the admission of additional permanent members so that all regions of the world would be represented. It is our hope that negotiations on this crucial issue will be advanced during this session of the General Assembly. Notwithstanding the several positive developments of the past few years, the world still faces many challenges. In addition to the continued disruption of the peace and stability of many States by raging internal conflicts, there are problems that require urgent action. The spread of poverty and the increasing imbalance between the developing and the developed countries are two of the more spectacular of these problems. We are convinced that correction of this unacceptable situation is an attainable objective. However, the solution requires a commitment by all States to accept and vigorously practise the concept of international cooperation. My country remains an active partner in this cooperative endeavour to make our world safer and more prosperous. As we look forward to the celebration, in two years’ time, of the fiftieth anniversary of the birth of the United Nations, there is in the air much optimism about the future of the Organization. The new world order, if it is to fulfil its promise, must be constructed on the solid foundation of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. Thus, our Organization is bound to play a central role in sustaining a world of the sovereign equality of States; a world of respect for fundamental human rights; a world of global interdependence and of cooperation for development. Let all Member States demonstrate the determination to ensure that our world body justifies the expectations of humanity. It is with immense pride that I congratulate you, Sir, on behalf of the Government and the people of Trinidad and Tobago, on your unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. Your election to this important position is a tribute to the active and constructive role played by Guyana in international affairs over the years. It is also a tribute to your own personal integrity and diplomatic acumen. As a fellow representative of a member State of the Caribbean Community, I am confident that you will bring to the deliberations ahead the necessary measure of impartiality and astuteness that will be indispensable in reconciling the differing views on the many complex issues before us. My delegation joins in welcoming the six newest Members admitted into this family of nations in 1993: Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, Monaco, the Slovak Republic and The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. These new Members, all of which are relatively small, can draw some inspiration from the election to the presidency of the General Assembly of a representative from Guyana, the smallest developing country in terms of population, ever to assume that position. For indeed, small States must continue to be afforded every opportunity to be full and active contributors to the collective search for peace, security and economic and social advancement for all. All States, particularly the more vulnerable among us, can derive much hope and encouragement from the developments of September 1993, which set the course for a new relationship between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization and improved prospects for peace in the Middle East. The historic exchange of letters of recognition between Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Chairman Yasser Arafat, and the subsequent signing of the Palestinian-Israeli agreement, which extends limited interim self-government to the Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and in Jericho in the West Bank, constitute a momentous development in the turbulent and violent history of the region. Who among us could have anticipated that, in the midst of current growing tensions and conflicts worldwide, such sworn enemies in the perennial theatre of conflict in the Middle East would have conceded so much in the pursuit of a better future? In today’s troubled times, these bold partners in peace have renewed the faith of many the world over in the capacity of diplomacy, political will and enlightened self-interest to overcome decades of hatred, mistrust and fear. We all recognize the tremendous difficulties and challenges ahead. Trinidad and Tobago wishes these leaders well and urges active United Nations involvement in assisting all parties concerned in a smooth transition from a state of belligerence to one of cooperation and peaceful co-existence. Given the centrality of the Palestinian question to the conflict in the Middle East, all parties need to work indefatigably to translate this initial success into a comprehensive and durable peace for the region. A similar concerted response on the part of the United Nations and the international community will be imperative in assisting the people of South Africa in their transition to a united, democratic, non-racial South Africa. After more than 45 years of anguished attention to the despair, suffering and injustice in that country, the provision of token measures of assistance would be unacceptable. If the world is to give any credence to the United Nations new thrust towards post-conflict peace-building, a tangible commitment to the success of the transition in South Africa needs to be made. We therefore join the call for an enhanced United Nations presence in South Africa, a presence that is urgently needed prior to the elections of April 1994. Trinidad and Tobago is taking the necessary steps to implement the decision taken on 8 October by the Assembly to lift economic sanctions against South Africa (resolution 48/1). It is our hope that the international community will respond positively and generously to this historic decision; and that it will quickly lead to the provision of ample financial and technical assistance, as well as to appropriate investments, that will allow a new non-racial Government to begin redressing the grave inequalities in all aspects of life in South Africa. We also hope that, in time, the advancement of greater economic and social equity in South Africa will mitigate, and eventually resolve, other problems that are the legacy of apartheid, including the rampant and widespread violence which threatens the process of transformation in the country. Over the years the Government and people of Trinidad and Tobago have faithfully monitored the progress of the South African people on their arduous journey to this critical point in their history. We have adhered assiduously to the various sanctions and other restrictive measures adopted against South Africa by the United Nations. Within our limited means we have also extended a helping hand to the victims of apartheid. Trinidad and Tobago has shared in the anguish of South Africans in their long struggle against the racist system of apartheid. We will also rejoice with them in their victory as we anxiously await the dawn of a free, just, non-racial and prosperous society in South Africa. Here at the United Nations let us seek to emulate the courage and statesmanship recently demonstrated by the major political actors in the Middle East and South Africa. We too must seize the opportunities for peace and seek to employ fully the machinery at our disposal in the active pursuit of a better future. Amid the growing anxieties and insecurities pervading many societies, member States have a collective responsibility to the millions around the globe who continue to repose much faith and hope in this Organization and its ability to address successfully the myriad political, economic, environmental and social problems now confronting us all. Trinidad and Tobago therefore joins in celebrating a reinvigorated United Nations, which is seeking to have a more meaningful impact on the lives of the world’s peoples. Trinidad and Tobago applauds the heightened involvement of the United Nations in the effort to restore democracy to Haiti and to secure the safe return of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to the helm of a legitimate constitutional government. The United Nations, with its active involvement in the organization of the 1990 elections in Haiti, facilitated the free expression by the Haitian people of their unfulfilled dreams and yearnings for freedom and a decent standard of life. It is therefore only fitting that this Organization, with the consent of the legitimate government of Haiti, should provide maximum support to efforts to guarantee a peaceful return to democracy and national reconciliation in that country, without which those dreams would not be realized. Trinidad and Tobago is concerned at the serious deterioration in the situation in Haiti since the welcome signing in July of this year of the Governors Island Agreement and the New York Pact. We deplore the flagrant violations of human rights and the blood-letting, which must be stopped. We express the hope that international efforts to establish a new police force in Haiti and to professionalize its armed forces will lead to greater guarantees of life and liberty in Haiti. My delegation takes this opportunity to commend the Special Envoy for Haiti, Mr. Dante Caputo, as well as the able staff of the international Civilian Mission in Haiti for their invaluable contribution towards resolving the crisis. Developments in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Somalia are among the more worrisome of those in which the United Nations has been involved, particularly in view of the Organization’s inability to stem the tide of violence and suffering. United Nations interventions in these areas are also increasingly being regarded as test cases for the new United Nations of the post-cold-war era. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, the horror and savagery of the persistent attacks on innocent civilians, particularly on the Muslim population, have elicited entirely inadequate responses from the international community. Notwithstanding the efforts of the United Nations Protection Force and the various international and non-governmental humanitarian organizations, thousands continue to starve, are expelled from their homes and regions, or perish at the hands of perpetrators of genocide and 'ethnic cleansing'. Yet, despite threats of punishment on the part of the Security Council, these and other atrocities are committed with impunity, while violent attempts to dismember the sovereign State of Bosnia and Herzegovina persist. The United Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 3 Nations can ill afford to fail Bosnia and Herzegovina, for that failure will have serious repercussions in the region and beyond, as well as repercussions for the Organization. We have also witnessed alarming developments in Somalia. In the early stages of United Nations involvement in the country it was faced with a unique combination of factors, including massive starvation and famine, widespread violence, the ready availability among the populace of weaponry of varying sophistication, and a total absence of any centralized authority. Today, with the assistance of the United Nations and other organizations, Somalis of good will can be proud of the successes achieved in breaking the backbone of the devastating famine and in making significant, though limited, strides towards the restoration of civil government and political reconciliation. It is impossible, however, to be oblivious to the major military engagements in the Somali capital of Mogadishu, which have led to tragic loss of life and have seriously imperilled the United Nations operation in that limited area. Trinidad and Tobago deplores the vicious attacks on the peace-keeping forces of the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II), which could ultimately derail efforts to restore peace and security to the country and frustrate the attainment by the Somali people of their goals and aspirations. We also support the call for urgent steps to be taken to ensure the safety and security of the tens of thousands of men and women who are engaged in these difficult and dangerous United Nations peace-keeping operations around the world. The extent of human suffering and instability now being experienced as a consequence of general economic stagnation is as disconcerting and disheartening as that visited upon us by war and strife. Many communities are in the midst of economic and social crisis. Poverty, unemployment and crime are increasingly threatening the very fabric of societies and are clamouring for the concerted attention of the international community. The United Nations must heed this call since, as stated by the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali: 'social peace is as important as strategic or political peace'. (A/47//277, para. 59) This issue is of utmost importance to Trinidad and Tobago, which has not been spared the ravaging effects of a decline in economic activity. The price of the single product which represents the mainstay of our economy, and which accounts for more than 40 per cent of government revenue and over 80 per cent of foreign exchange earnings, has been in steady decline. This reality, and the structural adjustment policies which have had to be implemented in support of long-term development, have resulted in serious dislocations in the short term. The ranks of the unemployed have grown to approximately 20 per cent and there is an increasing need to provide safety nets for the more vulnerable in this society at a time when government revenue continues to fall. Further, Trinidad and Tobago’s very capacity to provide sufficient social services to those not in a position to make the burdensome sacrifices required of the general population has also been severely hampered by onerous debt-servicing payments. These challenges which we are experiencing in Trinidad and Tobago are widely shared by other developing countries. The same spirit of cooperation and activism which now characterizes the United Nations approach to political and security questions must also impel the international community to address economic and social questions with an equal sense of urgency. The United Nations agenda for development, which the Secretary-General has been mandated to prepare, must be given priority attention in the year ahead. In this context, and with the aim of forging a new partnership in the quest for solutions to global economic problems, it may be opportune to consider the convening of a world economic summit. Trinidad and Tobago is of the view that the United Nations agenda for development should not be restricted to providing guidelines for future action by the United Nations in the economic and social sectors. It should also include recommendations for strengthening the capacity of this Organization to enhance international cooperation in these fields and to promote the advancement of developing countries. At its forty-seventh session the General Assembly reaffirmed that development is a shared responsibility. If our collective war on poverty, disease, unemployment and other challenges to development is to succeed, it must also be undertaken on the basis of a true partnership, a partnership involving individuals, States, regional and international organizations and non-governmental entities, for we must engender a sense of inclusion among all of society’s economic and social actors, while giving due recognition to their respective roles and responsibilities. However, Trinidad and Tobago also shares the perspective of the Secretary-General, as stated in his 1993 report on the work of the Organization, that 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session 'States and their sovereignty are increasingly recognized as indispensable building-blocks of international order and problem-solving.' (A/48/1, para. 13) While all credible entities should be allowed to contribute to their greatest potential towards our shared objectives, States must not be deprived of the proper tools of governance and the opportunity to utilize them effectively on the basis of considered national strategies and priorities. The concept of partnership must apply equally to the area of development finance and to trade. As regards the latter, Trinidad and Tobago has steered the steady course of trade liberalization but, like many other developing nations, has encountered persistent restrictions in the markets of the industrialized countries. It is hoped that the formation of mega-trading blocs will not compound these difficulties further. We witnessed the application of the principle of global partnership in the convening of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development and the adoption of Agenda 21 in Rio de Janeiro in June 1992. To date the first important steps have been taken towards the implementation of the comprehensive programme of activities for sustainable development contained in Agenda 21. The 1994 Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island States presents the next important opportunity for the international community to demonstrate the continued political will to fulfil the commitments undertaken at the Earth Summit in 1992. For small island nations like Trinidad and Tobago, this Global Conference, to be held in Barbados in April of next year, is critical to our efforts to forge, with the assistance of the international community, appropriate strategies for the implementation of Agenda 21, as it pertains to our specific situation. We strongly believe that small States should not be penalized for their limited capacity to inflict major damage on the global environment. Positive recognition should instead be given to their greater propensity for attracting a disproportionate share of environmental damage. Trinidad and Tobago hopes that adequate concessional funds will be provided for the sustainable-development activities of the small island developing States, as an important complement to initiatives taken at the national and regional levels. The urgency that developing countries, such as my own, attach to the elaboration of the proposed agenda for development signals the importance we attach to achieving a proper balance in the level of resources devoted to political and security questions and those allocated to economic and social programmes. The World Conference on Population and Development in 1994, the Fourth World Conference on Women in 1995 and the preparations for these Conferences, will also contribute significantly to a strengthened economic and social agenda within the United Nations. In addition, it is our hope that substantive preparations for the 1995 World Summit for Social Development will reinforce the importance of focusing on the ultimate objective of our development policies and programmes: the well-being and advancement of people. Trinidad and Tobago intends to follow closely the high-level plenary discussions to be held on international cooperation in the fight against drug abuse and illicit drug- trafficking. Our country has fallen victim to the increased transit of illegal drugs through its territory. As is often the case, increased levels of illicit trafficking have led to widespread drug abuse and an accompanying rise in other crimes. We note that this problem continues to plague a growing number of nations and therefore urge that higher priority be given to the United Nations programmes designed to combat this menace. The United Nations has not been provided with the financial resources needed to implement its legislative mandates. We have now exhausted some of the funds from which relief was frequently obtained in past years, resulting in a serious threat to the daily operations of the Organization. However, while it will be readily agreed that any organization must be provided with the resources it needs to carry out its functions, it must also be admitted that there is a growing imbalance between the demands being made upon the United Nations and the ability of a growing number of States to meet the cost of these demands. This is particularly the case with the peace-keeping budget, which in 1993 is expected to be almost three times the amount of the regular budget. The United Nations is now in a critical period of adjustment and reorientation. Trinidad and Tobago concurs with the view that there must be improvements in the administrative and operational performance of the United Nations in all its activities. Transparency and accountability must be the watchwords of the Organization. As we approach our fiftieth anniversary, we the States Members of the United Nations must remain steadfast in our support for the fundamental purposes and principles which have promoted order and security in the world community. We must also meet the challenges and grasp the opportunities presented by the altered global environment. Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 5 Let us forge ahead, confident in our ability to work together and to succeed in advancing the cause of peace and development. I should like to pay tribute to the wisdom of the Assembly in electing Ambassador Insanally to preside over this session, thus highlighting the outstanding role of his country, the Republic of Guyana, and beyond it that of Latin America in international relations. I also wish to congratulate the members of the Bureau and to extend to the outgoing President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, our warm congratulations on the excellent work done during his mandate. I should also like to reaffirm the full confidence of Côte d’Ivoire in the Secretary-General , Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. President Houphouët-Boigny, who has met him several times this year, greatly appreciates his impartiality and ability and his great devotion to his duties to the international community. Finally, my delegation congratulates and welcomes the States admitted since the last session to our Organization, which is thus moving ever closer to its objective of universality. The substantial transformations that have taken place in the world since 1989 have given rise to profound changes in international relations. All the points of reference that allowed us to analyse these relations with certitude have disappeared. The new atmosphere of confidence and the spirit of understanding, and at times of solidarity, that prevail in relations between States and peoples give grounds for hope and the rapid advent of a new international order that will be more stable, more just and more able to meet the aspirations of peoples for shared happiness in a world that hungers for bread and thirsts for truth. Today’s world is moving towards a convergence around certain values, including the primacy of respect for human rights, the imperative need for democracy, development and disarmament and the leading role of law in international relations. Such development can only give rise to great hopes by opening up the possibility of correcting past mistakes, sharing the benefits of progress with all and ensuring the fullness of peace. With the beginning of real disarmament and the recent signing of the Convention banning chemical weapons, the relationship between war and peace is today undergoing a clear qualitative change. Unfortunately, however, we must recognize that the international situation is far from satisfying our hopes for justice and lasting peace. Indeed, the collapse of the bipolar world seems, paradoxically, to have opened the door for new threats to international peace and security. The accumulation of poorly bandaged wounds, blind ambitions and feelings of rivalry and hatred built up over decades has re-emerged in various regions of the world in the form of extremely devastating and brutal fratricidal conflicts. Thus, Europe, whose level of socio-economic development did not prevent it from destroying itself twice in less than thirty years, is today still in the grip of a terrible conflict in the former Yugoslavia. That anachronistic and indescribably barbarous war has justified the creation, for the first time within the United Nations system, of an international penal tribunal, under Security Council resolution 827 (1993). So too, Africa, pushed aside by the disappearance of the bipolar world, has been torn by numerous internal conflicts with unfortunate consequences for the entire continent, which needs, rather, stability and peace within African States, between African States and between Africa and the rest of the world in order to deal with the imperative needs of its development and economic integration. The situation in Somalia continues to be of great concern, despite the presence of the United Nations peace- keeping forces, for the spectre of anarchy, intolerance in all its forms and violence continues to hover over that country. We hope that the tireless and commendable efforts of the international community to re-establish peace in that country will, within the allotted time, lead to a positive conclusion and the reconciliation of all its sons and daughters. We also hope to see very soon a resolution of the conflict in Liberia. Recent developments in that brotherly and neighbourly country, which led to the conclusion of the Cotonou Agreement on 25 July 1993, tend to make us more optimistic about the rapid restoration of peace. Côte d’Ivoire has always wished fervently to see the re-establishment of peace in Liberia and has, in addition, acted along these lines, as the Yamassoukro Accords attest. We are gratified by the formation in that country of a transitional government in the form of a State council entrusted with the organization of general elections. We welcome the firm determination of the political elements in Liberia to work for the ultimate collapse of the wall of hatred and enmity between Liberian brothers and thus to lay the foundation for a future of peace and prosperity for all. In this context it is urgent that the international community commit itself further to finding the necessary means for the rapid deployment of new contingents to reinforce the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Military Observer Group (ECOMOG) in Liberia to promote the effective implementation of the provisions of the Cotonou Agreement, particularly with regard to the entry into force of the Council of State, disarmament and the cantonment of factions. It is equally urgent that the international community come to the assistance, within the framework of Chapter VIII of the Charter, of States or regional organizations, participating in peace-keeping efforts in Liberia. It is also necessary that the question of the delivery of humanitarian assistance be rapidly resolved to allow for the regular supply of those regions of Liberia where famine is raging in order to prevent the incursions of armed bands in search of food that attack border villages and hamlets. Here we should like to congratulate all the non- governmental organizations that are making every effort, with courage, tenacity and dedication, to save human lives in that strife-torn country. It is also fitting to welcome the conclusion of the International Conference for the Protection of War Victims held at Geneva from 3 August to 2 September this year, organized by the Swiss Government and the International Committee of the Red Cross. That Conference allowed for a reaffirmation of the provisions of the major treaties of international humanitarian law aimed at the protection of populations during armed conflicts and for sensitizing public opinion concerning the valid bases of those provisions and the plight of civilian victims. Concerning Angola, progress made at the outset in the application of the Bicesse peace agreements in May 1991 now needs to be maintained, and efforts must be made and encouraged, both in the Security Council and in African forums, for the achievement of a just and lasting peace. Côte d’Ivoire knows only two paths for the settlement of conflicts: resort to force or resort to negotiation, that is to say, dialogue. Recent events in the international arena have consecrated the value of dialogue, which has always been advocated by President Félix Houphouët-Boigny, for the peaceful settlement of all conflicts. They clearly indicate how dialogue, conducted by responsible individuals, can, regardless of the nature of the conflict, serve as an extremely useful instrument for peace. In South Africa, the recent developments in the political situation are most encouraging, despite the uncertainties of the moment resulting from the escalation of violence. For this reason we welcome with satisfaction the joint statement of the political parties of South Africa concerning their intention to organize free and democratic elections in April 1994. We also welcome the establishment of an executive transition council that, for the first time in three centuries of white domination, after the first multiracial elections will involve the black majority in political matters. 30 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session We send out an urgent appeal to those elements opposed to democratic changes in South Africa to refrain from acts likely to jeopardize the sensitive negotiation process, which would delay South Africa’s return to the family of nations. We welcome the new spirit inspiring the South African leaders, particularly Mr. De Klerk and Mr. Mandela, a spirit that led to the historic request made by the African National Congress (ANC) to the international community to lift the economic and diplomatic sanctions slapped on South Africa. We also welcome the agreement reached between the South African and Namibian Governments concerning the transfer of the port of Walvis Bay and the surrounding islands to the jurisdiction of the Namibian Government. In the Middle East we can finally discern, after so many years of war and built-up hatred, the prospect of a settlement to the Arab-Israeli conflict. The mutual recognition of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and the signing in Washington on 13 September of the historic agreement on Gaza and Jericho convince us that the process begun in the Middle East is now irreversible, despite the obstacles that might arise on the road to peace. This is the moment to hail the courage, lucidity and self-abnegation of the high Israeli and Palestinian officials who have risen above circumstances and resolutely chosen peace. Their ardour in working for peace after such a lengthy period of war has been recognized and saluted by the international community. It is quite fitting that the members of the jury for the Houphouët-Boigny Peace Prize, established by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, unanimously awarded the Prize for 1993 to those illustrious leaders of Israel and Palestine. As for the situation in the Gulf, where peace is still precarious, we reiterate our unswerving support for the full implementation of all resolutions on this conflict, particularly Security Council resolution 687 (1991) of 3 April 1991, as well as resolution 833 (1993). We call on the parties concerned to respect these provisions. We believe that this resolution is a major asset in assuring security and stability in the region. In Asia, we welcome the outcome of the conflict in Cambodia, where the United Nations undertook one of the most ambitious and complex peace-keeping operations it had ever conducted. We congratulate the members of the United Nations Secretariat and the States that supplied various contingents for the success of this operation, which allows world public opinion fully to appreciate this other activity of the United Nations which is too often ignored. If the conflicts born of the cold war are now beginning to find solutions, it is none the less clear that we have entered upon a period of uncertainty, questioning and instability, with the re-emergence of a number of secondary conflicts that had been effectively frozen or repressed during the cold war and that are essentially of ethnic, tribal or religious origin, as illustrated by the wrenching events in Nagorny-Karabakh, Abkhazia, and the former Yugoslavia. It is becoming clear as well that in today’s world there are fewer and fewer identifiable enemies and more and more problems that are very difficult to identify. The United Nations remains the indispensable recourse for confronting these conflicts. Here, we solemnly wish to state our full support for the proposals of the Secretary- General contained in 'An Agenda for Peace'. The strengthening of preventive action by the United Nations must prompt us to pursue the process of restructuring and revitalization of its bodies to allow it to cope with these new challenges. Given the dominant role of the Security Council in peace-keeping and international security, the question of equitable representation in that body should allow for a lengthy reflection so as to find a solution acceptable to all - in this case, the expansion of the Security Council to accord with the growth in the number of our Organization’s Members and in the complexity of the problems submitted to it. Such an expansion should be based on rigorous and objective criteria which we need to define together, bearing in mind the imperative need for effectiveness in the taking and implementation of Security Council decisions. The United Nations, as a reflection of universal values, cannot stand outside the trend towards democratization which is sweeping across the world. The World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna last June, was of pivotal importance, allowing for a reaffirmation of human rights. If we can rightly be gratified by the fact that this Conference recognized the right to development as a fundamental human right to the disastrous economic situation in numerous regions of the world, and particularly in Africa, should remind us here of the need for a general awareness of the fact that human rights cannot flourish in a context of poverty and misery. In looking back over the economic situation, we note that global economic activity in 1992 was characterized by a slow recovery, growing by only 1.1 per cent. This weak recovery is primarily the result of a moderate growth in the global production of the industrialized countries, as well as a noticeable drop in the total production of those countries which formerly had planned economies. Unfortunately, these trends continued in 1993, and thus we are seeing a rise in unemployment and the emergence of serious social tensions throughout the world. These not very optimistic elements observed in the industrialized countries can only have negative consequences for other countries, particularly those of the developing world, among which the African countries remain the most vulnerable. We can therefore hardly be surprised that in the last United Nations Development Programme report on human development in 173 countries, 41 of the 53 African countries are among the 50 last countries in the classification. These pessimistic conclusions were reaffirmed in the reports of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. We are aware of the causes of this serious recession. Aside from the drop in economic activities in numerous industrialized countries, those causes are the collapse of commodity prices - for minerals, mining and agriculture - and the subsequent exacerbation of the foreign-debt burden on our economies, which in turn limits our investment capability. Additional causes that should be noted are the general inadequacies in economic management as described in the World Bank study entitled 'The African Capacity- Building Initiative'. All these factors taken together have led to the present crisis in our countries, manifested above all by a drastic drop in economic growth and an intolerable rise in unemployment, particularly among our young people - the driving force of our countries. The image this brief sketch of the African economic and social climate projects is hardly encouraging. In the face of such a situation, we believe that prospects for seeing the advocated solutions succeed lie primarily in a consistent approach to them. Our States have had the political courage to embark upon deep-rooted economic reforms and our peoples have progressively become aware of the need for the adjustment effort. Thus in Côte d’Ivoire, for several years now, we have been implementing a set of measures of economic policy aimed at creating the conditions for economic recovery. The stabilization phase of this process has primarily tended towards putting our public finances on a sounder footing, which is basic to the revival of our economy and its integration into a larger collective within the region and throughout the continent. The extension of the democratic process in Africa is evident. But it is also clear that there can be no democracy without economic development, nor genuine sustainable development without democracy. One of the primary conditions of this development for our countries is just remuneration in primary commodities - mineral, mining and agricultural. Statistics show that Africa represents only 2 per cent of the value of world trade, and that inter-African trade represents only 5 per cent of the value of the region’s total external trade. These data remind us once again of the economic urgency for Africa to achieve genuine economic integration within the continent. In West Africa, this exercise has already begun, in particular within the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), whose treaty has just been revised, and above all within the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), with the upcoming establishment of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU). From our point of view, such an exercise in structuring and harmonizing the institutional and legal framework of economic integration should be carried out and should rapidly be extended to all regions of Africa in order to pave the way for the building of the African Common Market, which we all so wish to see. It is also appropriate to note the great hopes we place on the establishment of the African Import-Export Bank, whose primary objectives will be to increase the level of African exports and of inter-African trade. We should also note the significant progress made in laying the groundwork for an expanded cooperation between our States in several areas, such as those of business law, the insurance industry, and the establishment of a body for regional statistics. We wish here particularly to emphasize the extremely important role played in the area of financing by the African Development Bank in implementing the objectives of integration in Africa. We must hail the will this institution demonstrates in its efforts to establish positive correlations between actions implemented within the framework of structural adjustment programmes and the objectives of regional economic integration. This step by the African Development Bank affects the central elements of the development strategies of African countries. 32 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session It goes without saying that such integration can be implemented only in an environment which is one of peace, stability and security. We therefore welcomed the creation, within the OAU and ECOWAS, of machinery for the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts. We must recognize that our efforts at regional integration will remain futile as long as the global economic environment remains unfavourable and as long as our partners in the developed countries lack the necessary political will resolutely to tackle our countries’ problems in this interdependent world of solidarity. At a time when the marginalization of Africa is increasing, we welcome the positive initiative of the Government of Japan to hold, several days from now in Tokyo, the International Conference on African Development, which will allow the developed countries to better grasp the specific problems of Africa. We must acknowledge, however, that any assistance offered by the international community will be only a small contribution, given the magnitude of the development needs of the African continent. This assistance will be effective only if consistent and lasting solutions are found to our problems within the framework of an international cooperation even further based on interdependence and solidarity, in particular in the areas of international trade, foreign debt, the environment, the war on drugs, and the important question of raw materials, to avoid confining our countries to the exclusive role of purveyors of raw materials and allow them also, through the transformation of these products, to become consumers in trade relations. More specifically, the Rio Conference, by adopting Agenda 21, reached a consensus on the planetary level concerning the need for immediate and bold international cooperation in the area of sustainable development and the environment. In applying Agenda 21, Côte d’Ivoire, for its part, has established regional environmental committees to draw up its white book on the environment, which will help it zero in on the objectives laid down in the Agenda. In this context, the elaboration of an international convention on the struggle against desertification is of critical importance for Africa, and we continue to place our hopes in the work of the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee on that convention. Ultimately, given the importance and complexity of the areas affecting the question of the environment, it is indispensable for the international community to openly support the development efforts of the African countries by granting them adequate financial resources and by helping them strengthen their scientific and technical capacities. Concerning the question of drugs and its financial ramifications, the gravity of these issues requires that the international community give them serious thought. The most recent studies of this phenomenon indicate that Africa has become one of the major centres for this illegal traffic. At the same time, we note that local consumption of hard drugs, in particular heroin and cocaine, are notably increasing in numerous African countries. This represents, therefore, a global scourge against which individual States are doomed from the outset, for the ravages of drugs spare no continent and no country, regardless of how powerful they may be. Africa is the weak link from which the international drug trade profits. Thus, given the extreme vulnerability and the precarious nature of the means available to the African continent to combat this danger, the international community should supply - specifically through the United Nations Drug Control Programme, with which my country is fruitfully cooperating - the needed financial resources. Since the end of the bipolar war, history has speeded up. We are the privileged witnesses of political events of the highest importance, events that will shape international relations along the lines of a rapprochement among nations and will therefore contribute to the strengthening of peace and global security, essential foundations for the building of a more just world order and one of greater solidarity. However, despite the dynamics of peace, which promise better tomorrows, we must admit that the ideas of peace and security can no longer be limited solely to the political field, for the truth is that peace and security can be genuine only if economic development and social progress are ensured for all. The effective globalization of the economy as well as the ever-increasing interdependence of nations today requires also an acceleration of history on the level of international economic relations, for the world must become aware of the fact that there can be no lasting peace, no universal prosperity, if the greatest part of humankind is on the sidelines of economic development and social well-being. In such a context, therefore, the North-South dialogue must be reactivated with the goal of seeing that further means are established to eradicate underdevelopment and poverty, which today represent the greatest threat of our era. For peace does not coexist well with poverty, as President Felix Houphouët-Boigny often says. The capability of the international community to grasp this danger and to find rapid and lasting solutions will determine our joint survival. Mr. President, let me start by congratulating you on your election to this high office. I am sure that under your leadership this year’s General Assembly will be particularly successful and effective. Today is the first time that a representative of the Czech Republic has had the honour to address the United Nations General Assembly as part of the general debate. The Czech Republic is indeed a new State. Still, the division of Czechoslovakia is nothing to be happy about. It is always better for equal communities to unite than to separate. However, once we determined that the continued existence of Czechoslovakia could not be assured by quiet and peaceful means, we strove to separate peacefully. While in other parts of the world similar separations are frequently accompanied by terror and violence, in our country not a single window pane was broken. This experience makes us believe that good will and common sense can lead to peaceful settlements, even of problems traditionally accompanied by violence. The Czech Republic is currently undergoing profound political and economic changes. On the political side, we are constructing a democratic regime in what used to be the communist world. The Government has proven to be a stable one. Meanwhile, we emphasize human rights, and our robust press freedom as well as our human-rights record have been recognized even by very finicky non-partisan international organizations. On the economic side, the Czech Republic has also chalked up certain successes. Privatization of property that was formerly State-owned is continuing apace. Prices are being freed so that they can find their natural, market-driven level. Meanwhile, we have managed to maintain tight monetary policies, keep inflation and unemployment at rather modest levels, and hold to a balanced budget. We live within our means. In this context, let me emphasize one thing. We are managing the process of economic transformation with our own efforts and our own resources. We do not ask for direct financial assistance. We do not seek to siphon off scarce development resources from countries whose situation Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993 13 is much worse than ours. We tell our friends from developed countries, 'We seek trade not aid from you. Open your markets to us, not your pocketbooks.' Actually, open markets would benefit all of us, whether our economies are developed or developing, settled or in transition. This is why we are convinced that the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade would finally benefit us all. In addition to the transition of our domestic political system and the transformation of our economic system, we have also modified our foreign policy. One of our foreign policy priorities concerns Slovakia. Over the last months, the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic have been learning how to live together as two independent countries, rather than as two regions of the same country. We have concluded a series of agreements and treaties, and have become used to having an international border between us - a border, I stress, which is peaceful. We are assuming our natural place in Europe. My country has recently been accepted as a member of the Council of Europe, which my President is about to address in a day or two. Just two days ago in Luxembourg I signed a Europe Agreement with the European Economic Community. Also unmistakable is the transatlantic dimension of our diplomacy, as exemplified by our activities within the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) and the North Atlantic Council for Cooperation (NACC), and by our interest in joining the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Our relations with the developing world have also been changing. On the one hand, there is a long history of friendly relations with many countries which we are now trying to put on a new and more balanced footing. On the other hand, we are seeking cooperation with a number of important countries which until recently had been ignored for political reasons. Thousands of physicians and technicians from the developing world who have been trained in our universities act today as so many goodwill ambassadors for us. I am sure that in a short time we will be able to provide appropriate economic assistance to needy regions of the world, preferably through multilateral channels. Our foreign policy is that of a small country and reflects that country’s position in Europe and in the world. It is, however, an independent foreign policy which is not beholden to anyone and which does not blindly copy the foreign policy of any other country. The end of the cold war era is connected with the fall of European communism, and its consequences have not yet been fully grasped. While the danger of a world nuclear catastrophe has significantly abated, conflicts provoked by political, ethnic, religious, social and economic disputes have flared up. Meanwhile, rays of hope have appeared in regions where we perhaps did not expect them. I have in mind the prospects for a peaceful settlement in the Middle East, the shaping of a democratic process in the Republic of South Africa and last, but not least, the success of the United Nations in Cambodia. In recent days we have been following with great concern developments in the Russian Federation. We had hoped that Russia’s problems would be settled peacefully, but the anti-reformist opposition initiated violence. Free and democratic elections are the only solution to the situation. Elections will determine whether those who waved the Russian flag in Moscow or those who waved the communist red flag should guide Russia’s future. Post-cold-war conflicts have shaken many of the values, principles and certainties with which we have been living. Nowhere have these values been questioned as radically and as viciously as in the countries of the former Yugoslavia during the several wars that have taken place there in recent years. Wars in the former Yugoslavia, the Caucasus and elsewhere have made us aware of the need to ask old questions anew, to re-examine concepts that have been basic to international politics since the Second World War. These questions concern, for example, self-determination; the role of internal borders as new States emerge; non-interference in internal affairs; international recognition of new States and its timing; and probably others. We will need to scrutinize them far more daringly and rigorously and with far greater imagination. Here, I think, is where some of the greatest challenges for the United Nations will arise in the immediate future. This is treacherous ground, but it might offer one possible vehicle in the search for guidance in the times ahead. Today, however, the fighting in Bosnia and Herzegovina seems to be resulting in a division of that country along ethnic lines. We find the enforced coincidence of statehood with ethnicity odious. We cherish the principle of a civic society in which citizens enjoy equal rights regardless of their ethnic background, mother tongue or religious creed. By contrast, we feel that ethnic, not to mention religious, purity is a concept from another age, irrelevant in the modern world. We regard as inadmissible any violent changes of frontiers as well as 'ethnic cleansing' 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session accompanied by massive and flagrant violations of human rights. One need not stress how important for my country - particularly when it was not free - was adherence to human rights, including their codification by the United Nations. Individual, universally valid human rights and their observance are inseparably linked to democracy and prosperity. This year’s World Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna was an important turning-point. In our opinion, a more effective use of the means spent on the protection of human rights, the concentration of activities into one body, and the establishment of the office of a high commissioner for human rights would be steps in the right direction. The Czech Republic is proud of its share in the work of the United Nations. Let me mention some of our contributions. Currently we have military observers in Mozambique and in the former Yugoslavia. Two more teams are to be deployed in Georgia and in Liberia. Others have helped keep the peace in Angola and in Somalia. We have an infantry battalion stationed in Croatia under the command of the United Nations Protection Force. Our civilian observers monitored Haiti’s elections. Our military participated in the liberation of Kuwait. Our specialists are working for the United Nations Special Commission. A large group of security personnel is about to join the United Nations guard contingent in Iraq. Our officers also served for 40 years on the armistice line in Korea as members of the Neutral Nations Supervisory Commission.T h i s demonstrates our tradition of service to the international community, a tradition of shouldering our fair share of the international burden. Along different lines, we have participated for 30 years in the work of the United Nations decolonization Committee. And as I look around this Hall, I realize that there is not a single country among the 130 or so which have been admitted after the founding of the United Nations that we would not have helped assume its seat here. As members of the Assembly know, the Czech Republic is running in elections for one of the non-- permanent seats on the Security Council. We are running on our record - our record of service and the record of our experience. On this basis I ask members for their support in the forthcoming elections. As many have already mentioned in the general debate, the world is different than it was 50 years ago. Consequently, the United Nations and its Security Council have reached a turning-point. Still, it is the considered opinion of my Government that, on the whole, the Security Council now serves us well. In the past few years, it has ceased to be a mere side-show in world politics. Indeed, it has frequently come to occupy centre stage. As a result, the Council and the United Nations as a whole are striving to meet the rising expectations the world is pinning on them. Whatever changes we suggest, we must proceed responsibly in efforts to reform the Council, in the spirit of mutual understanding and consensus. The Security Council must adapt to the new political, economic, social and security realities of the world. Some countries have become important members of the international community. An expansion of the Security Council must above all respect principles of effectiveness and responsibility for implementing its own decisions. A just geographical representation is equally important. However, some changes should be made today. There is a certain sense of frustration among non-members of the Security Council, which is steadily increasing the number of its informal meetings behind closed doors. We need greater transparency. We need more communication. We need a better balance between the Council and the General Assembly. In this respect, distributing the monthly agenda of the Security Council to Members is a welcome first step. Inviting the chairmen of regional groups for briefings is also helpful. I am sure that the Council will find further measures along these lines that could be implemented immediately. If the Czech Republic is elected, my Permanent Mission will try to identify other such measures. The credibility of the United Nations hangs on, inter alia, the performance of some 80,000 military and civilian members of United Nations forces in 17 peace-keeping operations all over the world. Crisis management now includes not only the classical separation of adversaries but also the protection of humanitarian convoys, the monitoring of elections and the observance of human rights. Peace- keepers are sent more often to countries where there are no functioning Governments and where agreements are worth only the paper they are written on. Thus, Blue Helmets are increasingly becoming the targets of uncontrolled armed groups. Even as we hold this general debate, members of peace-keeping forces are dying in clashes with warlords. The Czech Republic welcomes the intensifying discussion of the Secretary-General’s 'An Agenda for Peace'. The resolution adopted at the forty-seventh session Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993 15 of the General Assembly is a first step, however small, in the right direction. However, much more intensive cooperation not only among Member States but also between Member States and the United Nations Secretariat is needed in order to create an effective mechanism of functioning peace-keeping. The work of our Organization must correspond to the changing character of peace-keeping. One interesting idea is the proposal to create a working group under the auspices of the Security Council that would review these issues and prepare proposals and recommendations. The considerable number of regional and domestic conflicts is a part of the global security picture. Cooperation between the United Nations and regional institutions is another useful instrument for solving them. The Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) is one organization that plays an important role in the Euro-Asian area. The first formal step towards cooperation between the United Nations and the CSCE was resolution 47/10, adopted at the last session of the United Nations General Assembly. Not by accident, the cooperation and coordination of these two organizations was formalized during Czechoslovakia’s presidency of the CSCE. The limited resources of both organizations force us to try to coordinate and complement their operations and missions. Guided by our own vital interests, we have been striving to develop closer cooperation and interaction with organizations capable of giving effective security guarantees. This, however, does not mean we want passively to let others look after our security. On the contrary, we wish to be active participants in this two-way process. This effort involves, for example, the following: first, our constructive contribution, as a country with an advanced nuclear industry, towards the strengthening of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and its extension beyond 1995; secondly, the adoption of obligations to reduce the risks of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery, particularly through joining the Missile Technology Control Regime and the so-called Australia Group; and thirdly, the early ratification and thorough implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons. A financial crisis is threatening our Organization. The financial discipline of Member States is but one prerequisite for improving the situation. Equally important is the need to make more effective use of available resources and to strengthen the control of Member States in using them. We need to make better use of existing control mechanisms. We favour the creation of a strong, meaningful post of an inspector general. The United Nations system also pays great attention to the problems of social development, and a lot of good work has been done since development programmes and specialized agencies were established. The Czech Republic considers the problems of economic and social development to be one of the priorities for international policy-making, as these issues directly influence other current burning issues, such as local and ethnic wars, drugs, poverty and undernourishment in some regions of the world. However, despite the numerous successes of specialized agencies, there is considerable space for further improvement of their performance and efficiency. We think there is room for improvement in, inter alia, focusing more carefully on specific targets; eliminating overlap in some activities; utilizing available resources more effectively; reducing bureaucracy and enhancing flexibility; and developing greater cooperation among agencies. Environmental issues are also high on our agenda, as parts of our country are in the most environmentally devastated areas of the world. The situation is not only taking its toll on people’s health but is also undermining the economy of the country as a whole. Sustainable development is more than a new-fangled catchword for us: in our country, it means finding the right balance between environmental concerns and aspirations of development. The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) was an important step forward in tackling this problem in all its dimensions. All UNCED-related decisions adopted at the forty-seventh session of the United Nations General Assembly are very important. The Czech Republic will take part in their implementation, even if not all of them relate directly to its national interests. We welcome the creation of the Commission on Sustainable Development. The mandate of the Commission, its programme of work and the experience it has accumulated even during the short period of its existence indicate its budding importance. The Czech Republic, as a member of the Commission, is seriously involved in its work. Central and Eastern parts of Europe border on a zone of instability. We have gained priceless experience in solving problems resulting from the disintegration of the totalitarian world, even as we perceive the world through the eyes of a stable European democracy. This dual vision can help us identify risks and seek their solutions. We feel we 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session have something to contribute, and we are prepared to shoulder our share of responsibility for world affairs. This is one of the reasons why the Czech Republic submitted its candidacy as a non-permanent member of the Security Council. We believe we will be able effectively to use our experience and our perception of the world, and we hope that you will all support us. Allow me to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Insanally on his election to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly. Given his talent and experience, I am confident that he will guide this session to the successful completion of the noble mission entrusted to it by the Charter of the United Nations. I would also like to express my appreciation and thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Ganev, for the contribution he made to accomplishing the tasks of the last session. I wish to take this opportunity to extend my warm welcome and congratulations to the six States that have been admitted to membership of the United Nations over the past year. I stand before the Assembly as the Foreign Minister of a small, land-locked, newly independent country of 3.5 million under complete blockade, with no energy resources, still not recovered from the devastating earthquake of 1988, flooded by hundred of thousands of refugees fleeing the conflict between Nagorny-Karabakh and Azerbaijan, and under constant provocation by Azerbaijan to be drawn into that conflict. I am also the Foreign Minister of the only democracy in the region, an island of stability in a sea of political chaos and turmoil, a country with close to 30 registered political parties, a free press and freedom of conscience and religion, and with laws guaranteeing civil and political rights and freedoms. The Government of Armenia has also made headway towards establishing a market economy and has taken several significant steps to integrate its economy into the global economy. Armenia has moved swiftly in many areas of reform. Most agricultural land and homes and many small enterprises have already been privatized, and a tax programme, a pricing policy and legislative reform to create the legal framework for a free-market economy are effectively under way. Nevertheless, substantial work will need to be done if these advances are to contribute effectively to a successful transition. It is encouraging to see that the United Nations has recognized that full integration of the economies in transition into the world economy will not only help those economies but also have a positive impact on world trade, economic growth and development, and is prepared to support the process of bringing about economic reform and restructuring through its special bodies and specialized agencies. I wish to take this opportunity to convey my Government’s deep gratitude to the Secretary-General for establishing the United Nations - United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) interim office in Armenia. As a result of adverse natural and geopolitical circumstances, Armenia is currently in a state of economic and social crisis. We see the importance of short-term assistance in these times of great need, but at the same time are fully aware that it is the pursuit of long-term goals that will bring Armenia to function at full capacity as a member of the international community. We are convinced that the presence of United Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 7 Nations specialized agencies in Armenia such as the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the World Food Programme (WFP), the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA), providing technical and advisory assistance and coordination would enhance the durability of the transition that is well under way. As we and other nations grapple with problems unique to each, the collapse of regimes and empires continues to fuel violent conflicts throughout the world. But there is an apparent change in the pattern of international conflicts. Very few wars are fought between nation States any more. The rest are struggles for self-determination turned into bloody conflict and civil war in one and the same nation State. These movements need a forum in which to lodge their claims, identify and understand their rights, negotiate with government authorities, establish just administration of their affairs, and peacefully work out realistic political and territorial arrangements for the future. Now more than ever, it is incumbent upon the United Nations to revisit its provision of non-intervention in matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of Member States, and to define more stringently the extent of the impact of a conflict on the peace and security of other nations. Having in clear view the essential role the United Nations can play in enhancing peacemaking efforts throughout the world, we concur with recent proposals in academic circles that the United Nations transform the near-moribund Trusteeship Council into a modern clearing- house for self-determination. Under the proposed system, a 'trust territory' would be that part of a Member State voluntarily placed into trusteeship by the Government of that State for the purpose of resolving a self-determination claim under United Nations supervision without prejudicing the final status of the territory. We believe that the trusteeship system could save lives and prevent the escalation of a self-determination struggle to a devastating civil war, or worse, to a regional conflict involving other countries. The conflict over Nagorny-Karabakh has claimed the lives of more than 10,000 people and has caused close to a million innocent people to be uprooted from their homes during the past five years. This conflict continues to threaten the security and stability of the whole region. The international community has yet to come to grips with the root cause of the conflict and devise appropriate measures to find a peaceful solution. Armenia’s position on the Nagorny-Karabakh conflict has been clear and consistent since day one. The conflict is between the people of Nagorny-Karabakh, who are striving for their self-determination, and the Azerbaijani Government, which is refusing to address the rights and security concerns of the people of Nagorny-Karabakh. As an interested party, Armenia has advocated an unconditional cease-fire and has fully supported all the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) initiatives. The Government of Armenia sees no alternative to the peaceful settlement of the Karabakh conflict, than that which can be reached within the framework of the CSCE Minsk Conference. The recent developments of the peace process are promising. Nagorny-Karabakh has at long last been recognized as a party to the conflict and direct talks between the leadership of Nagorny-Karabakh and Azerbaijani authorities, mediated by the Russian Federation, have brought about a cease-fire, which has continued to hold for more than a month now and is unprecedented in the five-year history of this bloody conflict. On 28 September during its meeting in Paris, the Minsk Group produced the 'Adjusted timetable of urgent steps to implement Security Council resolutions 822 (1993) and 853 (1993)', to which Armenia has given its agreement, and is hopeful that a similar position will be adopted by the main parties to the conflict, Azerbaijan and Nagorny-Karabakh. There is now a genuine opportunity for peace. Therefore, the convening of the Minsk Conference must not be delayed. Once peace is established, legal questions, first and foremost among which is the issue of the status of Nagorny-Karabakh, can be negotiated. The clear position of the Government of Armenia is to accept and be gratified by any solution agreed upon between Nagorny-Karabakh and Azerbaijan at the Minsk Conference. The CSCE has an explicit security role in the new world order, consistent with the provisions of Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter. Last May, the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Chairman of the CSCE Council agreed on a framework for cooperation and coordination between the United Nations Secretariat and the CSCE, namely through the regular exchange of information in the fields of early warning, conflict prevention and the promotion of democratic values and human rights. The CSCE is also striving to obtain United Nations observer status, an initiative which Armenia fully supports. 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The successful cooperation between the United Nations and the CSCE over the Nagorny-Karabakh conflict can serve as a case study in how to reconcile, practically, the conflicting claims of regionalism and universalism. Such cooperation will enhance the role of regional organizations in conflict prevention, peace-keeping and the peaceful settlement of disputes. Armenia appreciates the Secretary-General’s report 'An Agenda for Peace' which embodies the notions of peace-keeping, peacemaking and post-conflict peace-- building. History has taught us, however, that development is intrinsic to peace, and that the two can no longer be thought of as separate processes. Starvation, poverty and poor living conditions in many parts of the world loom as serious threats to stability and peace. The United Nations in its commitment to secure peace for all the Earth’s inhabitants must place development high among its priorities. Indeed, it must establish economic and social development as guiding principles for the Organization’s activities. Armenia fully supports the Secretary-General’s initiative for an agenda for development and looks forward to contributing to this important milestone towards world peace. Armenia also gives its full support to the convocation of the 1995 World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen. Today, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction poses another grave threat to both global and regional security and stability. Armenia supports the indefinite extension of the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) beyond 1995. The United Nations should work to ensure universality and strict compliance with the Convention on the prohibition of chemical weapons. Development and human rights are also mutually inclusive values. There can be no genuine development unless systems of thought and government are based on respect for the full spectrum of the rights of individuals. It is auspicious that this year coincides with the forty-fifth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The spirit of the Declaration and the Vienna World Conference on Human Rights held last June will undoubtedly deepen the understanding of the significance of human rights for stability, freedom, peace, progress and justice. It is my Government’s strong conviction that the adoption and implementation of all human rights principles by nation States will create solid ground for unity and harmony throughout a world which is being transformed and is searching for new constants. For more effective implementation of the principles of human rights we feel it is imperative to establish the post of high commissioner for human rights and a permanent international criminal court where cases of gross violations of human rights and other crimes against humanity are submitted and prosecuted. In 1995, the United Nations will celebrate its fiftieth anniversary. In the past 50 years, the Organization has grown and has witnessed historic events, in many of which it has played a considerable role. As the Organization has entered a period in which it is being called upon to take an increasingly active guiding role in a changing world, it too must be prepared to respond effectively to these changes. Armenia supports the call for restructuring the Security Council that has been placed before the United Nations by its Member States. Because the international community is looking to the Security Council to take a more dynamic role in the maintenance of international peace, it is necessary that the Security Council increase its membership in order that it may be able to address the issues before it in a more balanced and equitable way. Improving the United Nations administrative performance must also become a top priority at this time. We welcome the current initiatives of the Secretary-General to streamline the Organization’s administrative and management structures and procedures to meet the demands that are now being placed upon the Organization. As the world seems to have grown accustomed to the dreadful routine of tragic news coming from various regional hotbeds, it is inspiring to reflect on some of the more positive reverberations of the end of the cold war, which can be epitomized by the historic accord between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel signed recently. It is my privilege to salute the leaders of Israel and the PLO for taking this courageous step. No less significant are the processes currently in motion in South Africa. Armenia joins the other Member States in supporting the negotiating process there, and believes that lifting economic sanctions at this time could encourage the people of South Africa to take up the task of building a truly free and democratic country. In the United Nations, the end of the cold war continues to translate into ever closer cooperation between its Members. In 1992, as in 1991, despite the large volume and the diversified nature of the issues examined in the Security Council, none of the members of the Council exercised its right to veto. There is a growing harmony of Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 9 interests among nations that is creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation, which are the prerequisites for the realization of the goals envisioned by the founders of the United Nations 48 years ago in San Francisco. Indeed, for the first time since its inception, the United Nations has been given the opportunity to become what it was intended to be: a collective security system, with a Charter providing for special forms of cooperation between sovereign States, designed to ensure peace and prosperity throughout the world. Let me extend to you, Sir, the warm greetings of my Government and the people of Solomon Islands. We congratulate you on your election as President of the General Assembly at this forty- eighth session. Your experience, diplomatic skills and leadership assure us of a successful and fruitful session. I also join in the tributes paid to your distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, for the excellent manner in which he presided over the affairs of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. We join, too, in acknowledging and commending the report (A/48/1) of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, His Excellency Mr. Boutros-Boutros Ghali, on the work of the Organization. The report is a comprehensive catalogue of the achievements of the United Nations, its strengths and weaknesses, the threats and opportunities the Organization faces and the challenges it has before it. All these point to one common truth: there is an undeniable disparity between idealism and reality, between the mounting responsibilities of the Organization and its capacity to achieve pragmatic, focused and specific goals. The gap between promotion of the ideals of the Charter and realization of them continues to widen. Over the last three weeks, we have heard Member States renewing their support for, and commitment to, this body. It is clear that the Organization is calling out for our attention. It needs us all, just as much as we need it; perhaps it now needs us more than ever before to strengthen 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session it and enhance its performance in its delivery of services and goods to our many peoples around the globe. Mr. President, your opening statement 22 days ago concluded with the visionary challenge, 'We the peoples - united for a better world' (A/48/PV.1). In the spirit of a family of nations, the United Nations will be celebrating this theme at its fiftieth anniversary in 1995. While Solomon Islands shares this vision, it counsels against extravagance, waste and mere symbolistic ceremonials which do not reflect long-term substantive benefits. To mark the occasion with serious reflection, education and communication, careful planning and a wider consultation programme at all levels of the international community will be essential. Awareness programmes and activities aimed at promoting the principle of unity in diversity should be a key to strength and wealth, both for nations and for the global community. A goal which can be promoted during the fiftieth-anniversary celebrations is that of world citizenship, or citizens of planet Earth. The basis for this should be very simple: everyone living on this planet has a responsibility for its sustainable growth. Everyone must be aware of, and feel concerned at, the possibility of our destroying the planet. Individuals make up communities. Communities make up nations. Nations make up the global community. The global community lives on this planet. Citizens of Planet Earth, or world citizenship, is a unifying vision of a peaceful, prosperous global society. This emerges from a sense of responsibility and the acceptance of the oneness of humanity. To embrace this vision of world citizenship into the twenty-first century, leaders and Governments must change their attitudes to take on the greatest challenge facing the world community - releasing the enormous financial, technical, human and moral resources required for the sustainable development of our planet. Can we collectively face this challenge in order to implement the various components of Agenda 21? The answer lies in the hands of the people and the nations of the world. How can we make this theme a reality - a reality not only for us at this time but also for future generations on this planet? I was heartened to hear the President of the United States, Mr. Bill Clinton, say these words on the first day of the general debate: 'The United States intends to remain engaged and to lead.' (A/48/PV.4, p. 8) He also went on to say: '... we must and will serve as a fulcrum for change and a pivot point for peace.' (ibid.) The Solomon Islands is currently working with the United Nations Development Programme on a pilot programme called 'Children of Planet Earth' (COPE). COPE is an environmental educational-awareness programme aimed at primary-school children. It will be incorporated into the school curriculum as a module compulsory for all children. There will be no pass or fail grade, but any child who completes the module will get a United Nations badge or a certificate. The module will focus on the environment and on sustainable growth, and national, regional and international perspectives will be built into it. The Solomon Islands strongly believes that education with regard to the environment is important and deserves priority investment. The target group is the children, because they will be the leaders of tomorrow. Two weeks ago, His Excellency Shimon Peres, Israeli Foreign Minister, described war and peace in this way: 'In war, the old bury the young, and in peace, the young bury the old.' I thought this was quite revealing. It tells of a reality, a reality which has written a new chapter with a change of heart. The handshake between Palestine Liberation Organization leader Mr. Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Mr. Rabin on Capitol Hill symbolized a major milestone in Middle East history. The Solomon Islands welcomes this great advancement in human relations between these two nations. It is hoped that the process of creating forgiveness and trust will pave the way for lasting peace in the Middle East. I applaud the countries that have pledged financial assistance or assistance in kind to Palestine. The forty-eighth session of the General Assembly opened at the dawn of a new era in South African history. African National Congress leader Mr. Nelson Mandela, renowned for his struggle against apartheid, made a moving statement at this very rostrum requesting the lifting of economic sanctions against South Africa. To see Mr. Mandela and President De Klerk moving towards South Africa’s first non-racial elections is an immense and promising change. At last, both leaders have decided to travel in the same bus of democracy. We too join the rest Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993 7 of the world in welcoming this first historic step towards majority rule in South Africa. The parameters for the global agenda of the United Nations General Assembly have evolved slowly over the years. However, not only have agenda items changed from time to time, but they have increased in number as well. The issues before the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly fall into the following broad categories: first, making and keeping peace; second, arms controls and disarmament; third, economics and development; fourth, global resource management; fifth, human rights and other social issues; sixth, international legal issues; and seventh, financing and administration of the United Nations. Each of these broad headings receives a thorough survey and analysis at every session of the General Assembly from both the developed and the developing parts of the globe. Some speakers focus specifically on certain issues, such as making and keeping peace, or arms control and disarmament; others draw the General Assembly’s attention to such matters as economic development, global- resources management, human rights and other social issues. The debate so far has been interesting. A quick overview of what has been said so far from this rostrum reveals a global picture that is both bright and gloomy. One truth, articulated by almost every speaker in the area of world peace and security is that the threat of conflicts between States has not diminished, even after the super-Power rivalry has been eroded. Senator Gareth Evans, the Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs, captured the question of world peace and security in a more imperative way when he addressed this Assembly at its 5th meeting, on 27 September. He referred to the resurgence of ethno-nationalism, which often takes a violent form, giving ethnic groups a claim to minority human rights protection as well as a claim to self-determination. Speaking on behalf of the European Communities, Mr. Willy Claes, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Belgium, patrolled the major trouble spots of the world in a memorandum attached to his statement. The Solomon Islands appreciates the efforts of the European Communities in resolving regional conflicts throughout the world and welcomes its commitment to world peace and security. The Balkan crisis has become a cryptic jigsaw puzzle. Human suffering continues. Peacemakers and peace-keepers have tried, and are still trying, to find a solution. The Solomon Islands deplores the atrocities committed and appeals to the nations with ways and means to bring peace to this region. As peace is being given a chance in Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and the South Pacific regions, so may it be given a chance in the Balkan region. In his address to the General Assembly on 28 September, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation referred to the Bosnian conflict and remarked: '... the key to the settlement of many conflicts has not yet been found.' (Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eight Session, Plenary Meetings, 6th Meeting, p. 15) He also said: 'In any case, it is surely time to think of establishing closer contacts between the United Nations and the world’s leading religions.' (ibid., p. 15) It appears that there is a missing dimension to the approaches employed in conflict resolution. As we consider the growing number of problems confronting our world, we cannot escape the feeling that the solutions will not simply be political, economic or social. In many cases, the problems are so complex and so deep-seated that we need superhuman help. A new prescription for true peace must include the development of the spiritual and pastoral well-being of all peoples around the world. To this important extent, my Government recognizes, as its first principle, 'the sovereignty of God as the basis of righteousness, justice and dignity in the development of the Solomon Islands and its people.' We realize that neither the individual nor society can achieve full potential without the help of Almighty God. If God is sovereign in the affairs of our world, would we not be wise to bring Him into the planning process as well as give Him a place in the resolution of conflicts, whether national, regional or global? The question of New Caledonia, in the South Pacific, has been on the agenda of the United Nations for some time - but not for much longer, I hope. Solomon Islands joins its colleagues in the South Pacific region in endorsing the recent report on New Caledonia of the Ministerial Committee of the South Pacific Forum. As a member of 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session that Committee, I hereby humbly express our appreciation and gratitude for the cooperation and support of the French and territorial authorities in facilitating the recent visit of Ministers to the Territory. My Government also reaffirms its strong support for the Committee’s recommendations and renews its firm support for the aspirations and goals of the people of New Caledonia, including the Kanak community. We note the progress of the Matignon Accords, and, while sensitive to the varying and conflicting interpretations and expectations, we urge all parties to maintain their commitment to the Matignon process and to the promotion of economic, political and social development in New Caledonia. The United Nations is a strong supporter of peace. This noble world body has, to date, supported the reunification of the two Germanys and of the two Koreas. In this context, reunification means only one thing - the uniting of people. Unification means peace and coexistence. Conflicts in areas around the world should be resolved through dialogue. Thus, we believe that the United Nations mechanism that was used in the case of Germany and in the case of the two Koreas should be applied to the situation involving the Republic of China and the People’s Republic of China. Solomon Islands recognizes the need for reunification of the two Chinas through good will and in good faith. We call on both to hold talks, on equal terms, on the basis of this important United Nations principle. But the process can be successful only if this world body considers the exceptional situation of the Republic of China on Taiwan in the international context, based on the principle of universality of membership and in accordance with the established model of parallel representation of divided countries at the United Nations. Solomon Islands fully recognizes and strongly supports the wish of the people of the Republic of China to rejoin the United Nations. As a small, friendly nation with a population of only about 300,000, Solomon Islands firmly believes that the desire of the 21 million people of the Republic of China in Taiwan for their own representation in this world body is reasonable and justified. We are sure that the international community would benefit from the positive contribution that the Republic of China is capable of making to this Organization. Our own country has benefited, in the past 10 years, from the economic development and technological progress that the people of the Republic of China have secured through achieving for their country such a high position in the league of the industrialized nations. Solomon Islands therefore supports the call from other Member States for the establishment of an ad hoc committee to examine the question of the Republic of China rejoining the United Nations. The mere existence of weapons of mass destruction poses a big threat to global peace and security. However, even more worrying is the potential proliferation of nuclear, chemical, biological and ballistic missiles - the danger of their falling into the wrong hands. We applaud the countries that have taken positive steps towards the elimination of these weapons. We also welcome the Secretary-General’s report on new dimensions of arms regulation and disarmament in the post-cold-war era. We believe in the integration of arms-regulation efforts into the broader structure of international peace and security, the globalization of arms control and of the disarmament process and the revitalization of arms control. We strongly propose that the arms-control and disarmament agenda clearly reflect the realities of the post-cold-war era. This is the challenge for the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Turning to nuclear testing in our region, I must say that our continuing desire and concern is to ensure that the South Pacific region remains a nuclear-free zone and a zone free of all types of radioactive waste. Solomon Islands therefore maintains its support for further suspension of nuclear testing in our region. We warmly welcome the decisions of the United States, Russia and France to extend their testing moratoriums. In this vein, owing to recent developments, we call upon China and the United Kingdom seriously to consider declaring similar moratoriums. Solomon Islands is gravely concerned about the dumping of radioactive and other waste at sea. We therefore urge the States parties to the London Dumping Convention of 1972, when they adopt amendments in November this year, to continue their active support for a total ban on such dumping. The shipment of plutonium, with the danger that it poses to the fragile marine ecosystem of the South Pacific, is a matter of major concern to the Governments of the region. The highest international safety and security standards must be adhered to. Any nation engaging in this business must satisfactorily address all possible contingencies. There is a clear message in statements issued by States members of the Group of 77. It points to the increasing connection between environmental concerns and developmental issues, to the delicate balance between the environment and development, between population and Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993 9 development, and between good government and development. Member countries of the South Pacific Forum were well represented at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in June 1992. A principal outcome of the Rio Conference is Agenda 21 - an action plan for the 1990s and the twenty-first century. It sets forth strategies and integrated-programme measures to halt and reverse the effects of environmental degradation and to promote environmentally sound and sustainable development in all countries. Once again Solomon Islands reaffirms its strong commitment to sustainable development. We believe that sound environmental practices constitute an integral part of the development process. Thus, all development activities pursued must be both economically and ecologically sound. The collective voice of small island developing States is heard through the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) which share unique circumstances, vulnerabilities and limitations. These include their small size and relative geographic remoteness, a narrow range of resources, severe population stress, sometimes minimal renewable fresh water resources, and high degrees of endemism. These pressures and limitations underscore the need for careful and sustainable management of resources to sustain future generations. This point was highlighted in our country’s statement last year. Solomon Islands, like its other South Pacific neighbours, continues to rely heavily, and in some cases totally, on the sea, the land, the rivers, the forests and the air around us for its livelihood and survival. Solomon Islands therefore attaches great importance to environmental issues and accords high priority to collective efforts in the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development follow-up activities and the implementation of Agenda 21, including other, associated principles and conventions. Solomon Islands is a party to the Port Vila Declaration on Population and Sustainable Development. We therefore continue to support preparations for the forthcoming two major Conferences in 1994 - the Barbados Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and the Cairo World Conference on Population and Development. Solomon Islands is one of the few countries in the South Pacific that now has a national environment management strategy endorsed by the Government. That strategy is now in the implementation phase, in which priority areas for action at the national level have been identified. Human-induced climate change and its subsequent effect of sea-level rise is perhaps the most intractable threat to human well-being and the survival of many species on Earth. The South Pacific is no exception. Solomon Islands is a signatory of the Framework Convention on Climate Change and will soon complete the necessary requirements for its ratification. The formalities for the ratification of the Montreal Protocol are under way. We warmly welcome the speedy action of the United Nations in establishing a Commission on Sustainable Development and, in particular, we welcome the acceptance of the South Pacific Forum secretariat as a special representative to the Commission and the South Pacific Regional Environment Programme (SPREP) as an observer in the Commission. Solomon Islands applauds the initiative taken by the Government of Papua New Guinea in putting forward, through the United Nations system, the agenda item on opportunity and participation. The adverse economic changes in recent years have created difficult circumstances for many small countries. There is a need to identify options in order to make possible participation by Governments and peoples of developing countries on an equal footing. Solomon Islands welcomes the proposal in the Papua New Guinea initiative for the establishment of a panel of experts to study and recommend ways of increasing opportunity and participation for developing countries. Speaking about Papua New Guinea, I should like to convey Solomon Islands’ profound appreciation to the United Nations for the goodwill mission it sent last year to discuss the problems we had encountered at the border between Solomon Islands and Papua New Guinea. I am happy to report that the new Solomon Islands Government, through its six-point initiative, is working constructively with its neighbour, Papua New Guinea, to find a lasting peaceful solution to the problems at our border. Proper management and good fishing practices are essential for the sustainable use of marine living resources. The major income earner of Solomon Islands is fisheries. Solomon Islands supports the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Preparations for its ratification are being considered. The Solomon Islands Government strongly supports the work of the Forum Fisheries Agency (FFA) and appeals to distant-water fishing nations to cooperate with the management and conservation measures stipulated by that Agency. 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The new Government of Solomon Islands has just officially launched its blueprint document entitled, 'Statement of Policies'. The Government’s philosophy of where and how to steer the country over the next four years is laid out in this document. The Government is embarking on a major programme of economic and social reforms aimed at attaining sustainable development. The ministries responsible are currently discussing and putting together a programme of structural adjustment. The programme emphasizes the sustainable management of natural resources, public-sector reforms and the promotion of private-sector development. It devotes particular attention to the sizes and costs of institutions, and outlines proposals for the redeployment of resources to areas of production and need. The preparation of this programme is expected to be completed by November 1993. While this exercise is considered to be a long-term viable undertaking, it is necessary to seek external assistance. The Government of Solomon Islands is fully committed to this long-overdue reform, but appeals to international financial institutions and donors to provide financial assistance and advice. On human rights, the Solomon Islands Government fully supports the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action which were the outcome of the World Conference on Human Rights held from 14 to 25 June 1993. Fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual are listed in chapter II, sections 3 to 19 of our national Constitution. We condemn any violation of human rights anywhere in the world. We also join the rest of the world in the promotion of human rights and support those who have spoken in favour of the establishment of a post of high commissioner for human rights. Such a post would indeed be a worthwhile investment. Solomon Islands also salutes the work and courage of those countries that contribute troops and humanitarian assistance to trouble-spots all over the world. We pray for the souls of those who have died in the field. We strongly deplore the actions of those who have committed atrocities against peace-keepers, Red Cross workers and associated personnel. Solomon Islands therefore strongly supports New Zealand’s initiative in requesting the inscription on the General Assembly’s agenda of the critical item on the safety of personnel in United Nations peace-keeping operations. The United Nations Charter has now been physically reduced to a pocket-sized booklet, but the demands the nations of the world place on this global Organization outstrip the limits of its capabilities and the resources at its disposal. Perhaps this is a positive sign - a justification of the need for its continuing existence. A few more flags have been added at the United Nations this year. We warmly welcome the new Members of the United Nations family and congratulate their Governments and peoples on taking this courageous step. In 1945 the founders of the United Nations saw the need to set up this body. Today, we are challenged in no uncertain terms to ensure that the work that was begun 48 years ago continues, to keep the Organization alive, relevant, meaningful and cost effective. It is the only hope for world peace and security and for the promotion of democracy, development and global-resource management. Member States request the Organization to be accountable, and so we Member States too must return to it our individual due responsibilities. May the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations bring a new dawn to human relations between all peoples around the world. At the outset I should like warmly to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the current session of the General Assembly. I am convinced that given your proven talent and extensive experience, and with the cooperation of all delegations, you will steer our session to full success. I also wish to express my sincere thanks to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for his remarkable accomplishments during the last session. I would like to take this opportunity to extend a warm welcome and congratulations to the new Members which have been admitted to the United Nations this year. The world has moved into a transitional period towards multipolarity since the disintegration of the bipolar structure. It had been hoped that the end of the cold war would bring peace and prosperity to the world. Indeed, the prospects of avoiding another world war and ensuring a lasting peace have improved. However, contradictions that had lain dormant during the cold war have begun to emerge, and manifestations of hegemonism and power politics in international relations are on the rise. Peace and development, so ardently aspired to by mankind, still face grave challenges. The relative stability Europe once enjoyed has been upset. Many countries are plagued by severe economic slumps or by political upheaval. Some regions are torn by ethnic or religious feuds exacerbated by territorial disputes, leading to intermittent conflicts and armed clashes. A regional war is raging at the southern end of the Eurasian land mass. All this can only have a negative impact on Europe and on the world at large. In the meantime, a number of developed countries have developed a 'post-cold-war syndrome'. Some have sunk into the longest recession since the Second World War. In the new setting, internal contradictions have sharpened, political scandals are rife, racism has reared its ugly head, trade protectionism is on the rise, and xenophobic violence is spreading. Public disaffection has been manifest, and the entrenched political establishment has been shaken. This trend has adversely affected the stability of the countries concerned and complicated international relations. The new international environment has led to an even more dire plight for many developing countries. Increasing foreign intervention has heightened various internal factors of instability, thus compounding their difficulties. Their rights to independence, subsistence and development have been neither duly respected nor safeguarded. Therefore, interference from the outside should cease, and the international community should give top priority to helping those countries achieve political stability and overcome economic difficulties. Lasting world peace and stability will remain elusive if the developing countries are still beset by persistent political unrest and if the North-South gap continues to widen. There is no denying the fact that peace and development remain the overriding issues of our time. To preserve peace and accelerate development has become the pressing demand of the people of all countries, but especially of those in the developing countries. The world we live in is as diversified as ever. There are now more than 180 independent sovereign States, which differ not only in social systems but also in stages of development. Moreover, they have widely diverse ideologies, cultural traditions, ethnic identities and religious faiths. We should recognize and respect those differences and diversities, and treat each other as equal members of the international community. We should promote interchanges in the spirit of seeking common ground while setting aside differences. We should oppose any attempt to impose a particular model on large numbers of countries, as diverse as they are. We believe that there can be genuine peace, international harmony and common development among States only when international relations strictly conform to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and are based on the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence and other accepted norms of international conduct. Increased economic and cultural interchanges between States have deepened their interdependence. It is absolutely necessary that States open up to each other; enhance exchanges, mutual understanding and cooperation; and share the benefit of complementarity. But all this will be possible only on the basis of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit. In order to attain the overall objective of peace and development, the Chinese Government has on many occasions called for the establishment of a new international political and economic order of peace, stability, justice and rationality based on the Five Principles of Peaceful Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 19 Coexistence and on the recognition of the diversity of the world and of the differences among States. Under the new order, mutual respect and cooperation between States on an equal footing will replace hegemonism and power politics; peace talks, dialogue and consultations will replace the use or threat of force; and equality, mutual benefit and accommodation of each other’s needs will replace trade protectionism and unequal exchanges. The Chinese Government is ready to cooperate extensively with all other countries and will continue to make unremitting efforts for the establishment of such a new order, and for peace and development of the world. The report 'An Agenda for Peace' (A/47/277) submitted by the Secretary-General contains many important, thought-provokinq recommendations and ideas that deserve careful consideration. We commend the Secretary-General for his efforts therein. As a permanent member of the Security Council, China has always supported the positive endeavours of the United Nations in preserving world peace and stability, promoting global development and resolving international disputes. We support the further enhancement and strengthening of the United Nations constructive role in preventive diplomacy, in peacemaking and peace-keeping on the basis of the purposes and principles of the Charter. As the frequency and scope of United Nations peace-keeping operations is growing, we deem it important and relevant to stress such basic principles of the Charter as respect for the sovereignty of, and non-interference in, the internal affairs of Member States. Those principles must be strictly observed at all times when undertaking preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping operations or post-conflict peace-building. Prior consent and pledges of cooperation by the parties must be obtained, and strict impartiality should prevail in all peace-keeping missions. Only in this way can United Nations preventive diplomacy and peace-keeping operations fulfil the underlying purposes of the Charter and achieve the desired positive result. The peaceful settlement of international disputes is an important principle of the Charter, one which we deem to be the essence of preventive diplomacy. Everything should be done to bring the opposing parties to the negotiating table before the outbreak of conflicts, so that they can start consultations to achieve a peaceful settlement. All disputes between States, regional conflicts or even internal conflicts, however complex they may be, should be amenable to a political solution, and nothing should be done to aggravate the situation. Not long ago, the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of Israel signed an agreement on mutual recognition and on the question of self-government for Palestinians. Although just a beginning, the move was a major breakthrough in the settlement of the Middle East question, which has dragged on for nearly half a century. This agreement was the result of efforts by the international community and by both Palestine and Israel to settle an international dispute by peaceful means. We sincerely welcome and wish to express our congratulations at this development. We can see from this that as long as a glimmer of hope remains, one must not give up the pursuit of a peaceful settlement. Needless to say, one should adopt a very serious attitude towards, and firmly oppose, any act of aggression that tramples on the sovereignty of another country, such as larger States bullying smaller ones or the strong lording it over the weak in the international arena. We disapprove of the indiscriminate use of sanctions or force in the name of the United Nations. We also believe that humanitarian missions must not be transformed into military operations and that a war cannot be stopped by expanding it. It must be noted that in a world troubled by recurrent regional conflicts and interwoven contradictions, the United Nations alone cannot hope to resolve all international disputes. It has the duty to undertake this task and maintain international peace and security. But regional organizations should also be taken into account and encouraged, as provided in Chapter VIII of the Charter, to assume greater responsibility and play a more active role in this regard. In view of the proliferation of United Nations peace-keeping operations and the concomitant demands on the Organization and Member States in terms of manpower, finance and material resources, we deem it essential that the United Nations act within the limits of its means and enhance the cost-effectiveness of such operations. Peace and development are inseparable. Economic development cannot get off the ground without the prerequisites of peace and stability. On the other hand, unless there is sound economic development, there can hardly be secure or enduring peace and stability. We maintain that the United Nations should meet the demands of the developing countries for social and economic advancement and should give this very high priority. This is the way to make the United Nations an Organization that all the countries of the world will support and count on. This is also the way to enhance further the role and prestige of the United Nations. Proceeding from this consideration, 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session we in China have stepped up preparations for the fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, scheduled for 1995. We also give vigorous support to the convening of the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen the same year. It must be pointed out that unless the international community helps the developing countries break loose quickly from poverty and backwardness, there can be no sustained growth or prosperity for all. Hence, we call upon the developed countries to do more to curb trade protectionism, contribute more funds for development and environmental protection, cut back debt burden, increase official development assistance, reduce restrictions on technology transfer and open their markets wider so as to create a favourable environment for the economic recovery and revitalization of the developing countries. This will prove a boon to the developed countries themselves. At a time when the world economy has become increasingly interrelated, the revitalization of the developing countries will be a boost to the world and will spur to the economic recovery and growth of the developed countries. Since the founding of the United Nations, tremendous changes have taken place in the world and in the Organization itself. United Nations membership has increased from the original 51 to 184 now, the majority being developing countries. The Chinese Government is of the view that, in keeping with developments, the United Nations should be restructured, and the composition of the Security Council could be appropriately enlarged to enable the Organization better to respond to the changes in the world, meet the concerns and wishes of the membership and enhance its own role in international affairs. Reform of the Security Council should enable it better to discharge its mandate in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter. It is the collective will and common aspiration of the membership that in the new circumstances the United Nations should be better equipped to address major international issues vigorously and effectively and in a fair and balanced manner. Therefore, the reform of the Security Council and other United Nations organs should take due account of the principle of equitable geographical distribution and should accommodate the interests of the developing countries which make up the overwhelming majority of the membership. Since any reform would affect the interests of all Member States and involve a revision of the Charter, views from all quarters must be heard. The reform plan should undergo extensive discussions and consultations by the membership and should be generally acceptable to all. The Chinese Government has stated on many occasions that China stands for the non-proliferation of all weapons of mass destruction. At the same time we hold that the ultimate objective of mankind should be the complete prohibition and thorough destruction of those weapons. Now that the Conventions banning biological and chemical weapons have been concluded, we deem it high time that the complete prohibition and thorough destruction of nuclear weapons were put on the agenda. The international community has expressed concern over the issue of a nuclear-test ban. The Chinese Government has always stood for a total test ban within the framework of the complete prohibition and thorough destruction of nuclear weapons. We support an early start to negotiations for a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty and will work in common with other countries towards a comprehensive nuclear-test ban at an early date. China has always exercised great restraint in nuclear testing. The number of our tests is the smallest among all nuclear Powers. While a nuclear test ban is necessary, to undertake not to use nuclear weapons at all is far more crucial, because this will not only make their testing, development, production or deployment devoid of any meaning, but will give great impetus to nuclear disarmament, which will contribute tremendously to world peace and security. If, however, complete prohibition and thorough destruction of nuclear weapons cannot be achieved soon enough, then let the nuclear Powers reach an agreement not to be the first to use nuclear weapons and not to use them against non-nuclear-weapon States or nuclear-free zones. This is entirely feasible and should be done as soon as possible. This will put nuclear Powers to the test to see whether they are genuinely willing to treat non-nuclearweapon States as equals. China long ago unilaterally undertook not to be the first to use nuclear weapons at any time or under any circumstances, and not to use or threaten to use them against any nuclear-free zone or non-nuclear-weapon State. We call upon all the other nuclear Powers to make the same pledge and conclude an international convention to this effect as soon as possible. Now there are international arrangements and conventions that are designed to control arms transfers and ban certain types of weapons of mass destruction. Such conventions are aimed at maintaining international and regional peace, security and stability. The arrangements designed to control transfers of missile technology should also take into account such elements as the arbitrary use of missiles for attacks on other countries. Otherwise, such an arrangement will become a means by which certain Powers Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 21 can maintain military superiority or play power politics. That is morally unjustifiable. We oppose the all-too-frequent arbitrary use of sanctions by one country to bring pressure to bear on another under the pretext of controlling arms transfers while engaging in massive arms sales of one’s own which jeopardize the sovereignty and security of the country concerned. We also denounce the hegemonic conduct of a self-styled 'world cop' that tramples upon international law and norms of international relations by endangering another country’s navigational safety and normal trading under the pretext of enforcing the ban on chemical weapons and in disregard of the provisions of the relevant international conventions. Thanks to the policy of reform and opening to the world, China’s economy has expanded considerably over the past 15 years and is now in high gear. Our gross national product rose 12.8 per cent last year, and the current year’s growth rate will again be in double digits. Our foreign trade and economic cooperation have been expanding rapidly. Total trade volume in 1992 was a 5.2-fold increase over 1978, the year before the start of the reform and opening-up, and represents an annual growth rate of 13.9 per cent. Investments from overseas have flowed in rapidly. Nearly 50,000 overseas-funded projects involving $58 billion were approved in 1992. The momentum has continued into the current year. High-speed growth has helped basically solve the problem of feeding and clothing a population of over 1.1 billion and put China on the road towards prosperity. It has also boosted economic exchanges and cooperation with other countries. This is good for both China and the world. But we have encountered some problems as our economy has picked up speed. These problems will be resolved by accelerating and deepening our reform. We have taken a number of measures to strengthen macro-control and readjust the economic structure to ensure healthy, rapid and steady economic growth. We are fully capable of attaining our objective. We are full of confidence in the future of our development programme. It is an objective reality that China has indeed achieved impressive economic success. But it does not tally with the facts to exaggerate our economic strength. Given China’s vast land area, huge population and uneven economic development in different parts of the country, our per capita gross national product is still quite low. Ours is still a developing country. It will require several generations working very hard for many decades before we can attain the level of an average developed country. At this juncture, I would like to draw attention to assertions recently bruited about on the international scene: that China’s economic success would entail a military build-up, or that China would move to 'fill up the vacuum', thus constituting a threat, and so on and so forth. This is utterly groundless. A China with a burgeoning economy is an important factor contributing to the economic well-being of Asia and the world at large. The Chinese people had long suffered under imperialist aggression, and it regained independence only after horrible sacrifices in countless grim struggles spanning more than a century. Nothing can make us forget the episodes of our history when our country was subjected to foreign aggression, dismemberment and enslavement. Our ancient sage Confucius, that great thinker and statesman, admonished: 'Do not do unto others what you would not like others to do unto you'. Even when China becomes more developed, we will never engage in aggression or expansionism; nor will we ever seek hegemony. This is a pledge which has been enshrined in our Constitution and which has become part of our consistent and firm basic State policy. It has been borne out by facts that China is a staunch force for world peace and stability. Our limited defence capability is solely for self-defence purposes. Many of our military industrial plants have been converted to civilian production. Our military expenditures are the lowest among the major countries. We have neither troops nor military bases on foreign territory. We are immersed in economic construction. Therefore, we need an international environment of enduring peace as well as long-term amicable relations with our neighbours. We are ready to cultivate and strengthen similar relationships with all other countries on the basis of the five principles of peaceful coexistence. No matter how the wind may change its direction on the world scene, China will unswervingly play its part in preserving world peace and promoting common prosperity and development. For me this is a very special occasion, for it is the first time I address, on behalf of my father, the Sovereign Prince of Monaco, and on behalf of my country, this prestigious world Assembly of the States Members of the United Nations. I wish to tell members of the tremendous joy of all Monégasques and inhabitants of the Principality of Monaco when my country joined this great world Organization. I should like to take the opportunity once again to thank the members of the Security Council and of the General Assembly for their favourable consideration of Monaco’s application for membership of the Organization. I wish the Assembly every success in its work. A number of its agenda items are of particularly vital historic and political significance. The decisions we take will undoubtedly have far-reaching and long-term consequences for the future of the world community. I wish also, to congratulate you, Sir, very sincerely and warmly on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. My congratulations also go to the members of the General Committee. I have no doubt that your skill and lengthy experience will enable our work to proceed under the best possible conditions. Like all countries that put their trust in international law and cooperation, the Principality of Monaco, in its relations with other countries, has always relied on respect for international norms and documents. Its Princes have always been fully aware of the fact that the maintenance of peace necessarily entails respect for the sovereignty of States and the development of friendly relations among peoples. Prince Albert I of Monaco, when he created the Peace Institute at the end of the last century, was even then inspired by that philosophy, which led to the founding, in 1919, of the League of Nations and, in 1945, of the United Nations. On 5 February 1934 Prince Albert’s successor - Prince Louis II, who was profoundly touched by the hardship and suffering caused by the First World War - set up the Medical-Legal Commission of Monaco, whose sober reflection and work which continue today, gave inspiration to the drawing up of the 1949 Geneva Conventions of the International Red Cross. My country’s commitment to peace is therefore a tradition of more than 100 years - a tradition observed by its Princes, whose dynasty will shortly celebrate its 700th anniversary. It is also a political aspiration that has only grown in strength with the passage of time. It will always be adhered to with both conviction and determination in the General Assembly of the United Nations. In this spirit, I should like to refer in particular to a resolution of the International Olympic Committee, of which I am a member, which unanimously recommends observance of a long-standing tradition of the Olympic movement - the principle of the Olympic truce. The Government of Monaco supports this initiative, which was signed and endorsed by the National Committees of 184 countries and was officially addressed to our Secretary-General on 9 February this year. An international year of sport and the Olympic spirit would undoubtedly afford an opportunity to launch this project. Perhaps it is by constantly repeating certain initiatives of this nature - albeit modest ones - that we shall be able gradually to create the just and lasting peace to which we all so deeply aspire. Did we not, a few days ago, receive from the southern shores of the Mediterranean news giving us immense hope of peace? Though it may be tenuous, we are at one with those who inspired it and with those who are today endeavouring to make it a success. It is our earnest wish that they will succeed. Peace is not just the silence of guns. Indeed, there can be no doubt that the establishment of genuine peace can flow only from greater respect for justice, human rights and fundamental freedoms. For this very reason, the work and the conclusions of the Vienna Conference on human rights warrants our very close scrutiny. Finally, echoing a wish expressed by my father, Prince Rainier III, when he addressed the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, I should like to emphasize that the Government of Monaco has set for itself the priority of protecting our environment, both natural and cultural, so that it may provide a healthy, enriching and balanced life for all. The Principality has undertaken major efforts to combat, in particular, all types of pollution that attack and contaminate the Mediterranean. My country is more than ever resolved to encourage all initiatives in this area, including the establishment, on its own soil, of institutions dealing with coordination and the 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session adoption of a General Assembly resolution that would proclaim 1998 the international year of the seas and oceans. I should like, in conclusion, to reiterate that the Principality of Monaco - in full respect for the rule of law in domestic affairs and for treaties and law in the international order; having neither armed forces nor military arsenals; and bearing no enmity to anyone at all - is fully prepared to assist the Organization in all its actions, undertaken sometimes with great difficulty, aimed at maintaining and rebuilding peace. Mr. President, please accept Latvia’s congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. The people of Latvia wish you a successful term as leader of this body. Latvia wishes to pay its respects to those nation States which have recently been admitted to the United Nations and looks forward to cooperation with them. It has been an eventful year for Latvia. On 18 November 1993, Latvia will celebrate the seventy-fifth anniversary of the declaration of independence of Latvia in 1918. Our seventy-fifth year of statehood has been marked by the election and the convening of our Parliament, the Saeima. The convening of the Saeima was an especially solemn occasion in that it meant the full restoration of parliamentary democracy and the Constitution of 1922. Moreover, the convening of the Saeima completed a three-year restoration process that included the re-establishment of our de facto independence in August 1991 and our admission to the United Nations. The re-establishment of Latvia’s independence and the restoration of its Constitution, following a half century of suspension, is testimony to the power of democracy, the endurance of the human will and the supremacy of international law. To understand the processes currently under way in Latvia and in our region, it is helpful to note some aspects of recent history. According to a secret protocol to the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact of 1939, signed by Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union, Latvia was relegated to the Soviet Union’s sphere of influence, an act which cleared the way for the Soviet Union’s illegal occupation of Latvia in 1940. Even though the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact and its secret protocols were, under international law, void at their signing, Latvia was forcibly annexed by the Soviet Union shortly after the occupation. Although Latvia lost its sovereignty and independence de facto, its status as a State continued de jure. Latvia’s de jure status continued to be recognized by many States, and this position was echoed in their declarations throughout the fifty-year period of Latvia’s occupation. The continuing identity of the State of Latvia was preserved by the application of the principle that illegal acts cannot validly change an existing legal situation - ex injuria non oritus jus. Consequently, when it re-established its independence in l991 Latvia was quickly able to renew diplomatic relations with those States with which it had had such relations prior to its occupation in 1940. In addition, Latvia continues to adhere to certain bilateral and multilateral agreements to which it became party between 1918 and 1940. I have stressed the matter of Latvia’s continuous identity between 1918 and 1991 in order to emphasize that Latvia is not a newly independent State. This fact is important because the de jure continuity of Latvian statehood has legal, political and economic consequences for Latvia, in particular with respect to our relations with the Russian Federation. The key to stable and friendly relations between our two States, in both the political and economic spheres, is recognition by both parties that Latvia was illegally and forcibly occupied and annexed in 1940 by the Soviet Union. I should like to express Latvia’s support for the various efforts by the Secretary-General and the Member States to promote the maintenance of international peace and security, in particular, efforts that were initiated by the report of the Secretary-General entitled 'An Agenda for Peace'. Recognizing the pragmatic and forward-looking approach of the proposals contained in the Secretary-General’s report, preventive diplomacy in particular, we must also consider proposals that will similarly address other responsibilities of the United Nations, including the enhancement of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the promotion of sustainable development. Latvia’s experience with regard to the utilization of preventive diplomacy may be useful in developing such proposals. I should like to emphasize that Latvia has utilized preventive diplomacy to the maximum extent possible. Latvia has initiated or welcomed United Nations and regionally sponsored efforts in fact-finding and confidencebuilding in connection with the issues facing Latvia and our region. Among these efforts is our recent agreement with the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe to establish a presence in Riga, our capital. These efforts have resulted in an increased understanding of the situation in Latvia, providing the United Nations, Member States and regional organizations with the knowledge and perspective to respond adequately to our problems. The Secretary-General, Member States and regional organizations have been involved, in cooperation with Latvia, in applying these measures to the most important and urgent matter now confronted by Latvia - namely, the continued illegal presence of the military forces of the former Soviet Union on Latvian territory. Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 7 For over two years, Latvia has sought the removal of the former Soviet Union’s military forces from its territory, through bilateral negotiations with the Russian Federation and with the assistance of the international community. Yet these forces, now under the control of our large neighbour, the Russian Federation, are still stationed on our territory. Last year the General Assembly addressed this issue under the agenda item entitled 'Complete withdrawal of foreign military forces from the territories of the Baltic States'. In adopting resolution 47/21 by consensus, the General Assembly called upon the Baltic States and the Russian Federation 'to conclude without delay appropriate agreements, including timetables, for the early, orderly and complete withdrawal of foreign military forces from the territories of Estonia and Latvia'. (resolution 47/21, para. 2) The Russian Federation, in joining in the consensus for the adoption of resolution 47/21, affirmed its obligation to withdraw its military forces from the Baltic States, which it had earlier assumed as a participating State of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe at the Helsinki meeting in July 1992. A fact-finding mission headed by Tommy Koh, Ambassador-at-Large of Singapore, recently returned from Latvia and the Baltic States to report to the Secretary-General on the implementation of resolution 47/21. We thank the Secretary-General for his efforts at ensuring the implementation of this resolution. We also wish to thank Mr. Stoyan Ganev, President of the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session, for accepting our invitation to visit Latvia in July 1993 and witnessing the situation in Latvia at first hand. I hope that, in addition to reviewing the situation regarding foreign military forces, Mr. Ganev gained insight into Latvia’s process of renewal. Before I report to the Assembly on the present situation regarding the issue of the foreign military forces on the territory of Latvia, I should like to express Latvia’s support for the ongoing democratic processes in the Russian Federation, at whose head is the lawfully elected President of the Russian Federation, Boris Yeltsin. I hope that the political and economic reform process in the Russian Federation will continue and that political forces there will solve their problems using peaceful and democratic means. At critical moments in the past, democratic forces in the Russian Federation have demonstrated their ability to act decisively to keep the Russian Federation on the road to democracy. I am convinced that this will also be the case in these, for Russia, difficult and complicated times. Since February 1992, State delegations of Latvia and the Russian Federation have held eight sessions of negotiations on the subject of troop withdrawal from Latvia. These negotiations resulted in various agreements, which govern technical matters during withdrawal. Unfortunately, we have failed to secure agreement on the important question of a withdrawal timetable. Latvia has consistently demanded that withdrawal be completed by the end of 1993, two and a half years after Latvia regained its independence. The delegation of the Russian Federation has offered final withdrawal dates ranging from 1994 until 1999, without ever submitting a concrete timetable or systematic plan for withdrawal. The problem of the final withdrawal date is compounded by the demands of the Russian Federation to maintain three bases in Latvia: the radar station in Skrunda, the cosmic intelligence centre in Ventspils and the naval base in Liepaja. We have repeatedly stated, and the international community, including the Russian Federation, has concurred, that withdrawal should be early and complete; furthermore, we cannot permit our soil to be used for purposes that may be directed against third countries. A second principal issue on which the Russian Federation has held up its withdrawal from Latvia is its demand for extraordinary social benefits for pensioned officers of the former Soviet Union and the Russian Federation who are residing in Latvia. For years, the officer corps of the occupying army was granted favourable access to apartments, medical care and other social services. Demands for continuation of such privileges are not only unacceptable to Latvia, but unjust to all its residents; we shall not permit these demands to delay the withdrawal process. At the beginning of the negotiations between our two States, in February 1992, agreement was reached on certain matters. Among these was the requirement that both parties refrain from uncoordinated, unilateral actions during the period of withdrawal. The time since then has been marked by such incidents as the military forces of the Russian Federation conducting unauthorized troop movements on the ground, unauthorized naval movements through Latvia’s ports and unauthorized air sorties in Latvian skies. Contrary to agreement, fresh recruits have secretly entered Latvia to replace departing troops. In the light of the continued presence of these forces, foreign investment in Latvia, which is necessary for the development of our small country, has been discouraged. In 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session addition, the military forces of the Russian Federation have done substantial damage to Latvia’s environment. Latvia seeks an assurance that its sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity will be respected and that a threat to international peace and security will not arise from its territory. I hope that the negotiations with the Russian Federation, which began yesterday, on 28 September 1993, will be pragmatic in nature and will soon lead to an agreement providing for the complete withdrawal of foreign military forces from the territory of Latvia. Such an agreement would have the potential to open a new chapter in the relationship between our two States, a chapter containing neither suspicion nor animosity. We could then even foresee a time when our societies and children would be free of the prejudices of the past. Latvia welcomes the complete withdrawal of the military forces of the Russian Federation from Lithuania, which is a step toward improving the security of the Baltic region. As I have stated, it is important to recognize that Latvia was illegally occupied and annexed, and that a principal consequence of these events is the significantly altered demographic situation there. This situation must be taken into account if one is to understand the internal situation in Latvia. In 1940, 75 per cent of Latvia’s inhabitants were ethnic Latvians but today they constitute only 52 per cent of Latvia’s population. During the Soviet occupation, hundreds of thousands of persons were deported to Siberia, and many thousands were arrested and executed. During the Second World War tens of thousands died, were sent to Nazi Germany for forced labour, or were forced to emigrate to the West in order to escape the Red Terror. In sum, during the occupation, the pre-war population of Latvia was reduced by one third. Among the victims who suffered this fate were the Livs, one of the indigenous peoples of Latvia, who at present number only a few dozen. During the post-war years, the deportation and massive involuntary emigration of Latvians from their native land was paralleled by a heavy influx of residents of the Soviet Union. In 1945, newly arrived Soviet military personnel were immediately allocated approximately 25 per cent of all the apartments in Riga, the capital of Latvia. Many of these apartments had earlier been vacated by Latvian families which had been deported to Siberia or which had been forced to flee to the West. In addition to the introduction into Latvia of active and retired military personnel, the Soviet regime, using offers of various privileges, enticed civilian labourers and managers from the Soviet Union to migrate to Latvia. The pace of population transfer increased dramatically after 1959, when Soviet leaders initiated a policy of colonization for Latvia by undertaking a heavy industrialization drive there. During the next 30 years the total population of Latvia increased by 27 per cent. While the indigenous population grew at a rate of 7.6 per cent, population growth in the migrant community was 58.5 per cent, with the result that mechanical growth exceeded natural growth by close to a factor of eight. I should like to stress that no other country has lost, as a result of occupation and colonialism, such a large part of its indigenous population during modern times. In no other modern-day country has the indigenous population nearly become a minority in its own country, as has happened in Latvia. We believe that the restoration of our independence has given us the opportunity to improve our demographic situation. If we can reach a point where Latvians feel secure about their future, we will then have the freedom to invest more of our resources in finding solutions to global problems. The change in the demographic situation of Latvia during the Soviet occupation cannot be conveyed by numbers alone. Latvians were subjected to discrimination, in particular with respect to the use of the Latvian language and professional development. Command of the Russian language became necessary in both the educational system and many workplaces, while use of the Latvian language was eliminated in many spheres. Further, the policy of the Soviet authorities was to prevent access by Latvians to professions in various governmental and strategic fields. With a view to ensuring the survival of the Latvian people, it has become necessary for Latvia to develop a law on citizenship which will safeguard the national identity of its indigenous population. Concurrently, Latvia will uphold its obligations under international human rights law. Latvia has already determined its present body of citizens through a process of resident registration. In 1991, along with the restoration of its sovereignty and independence, Latvia restored citizenship to those persons from whom it had been taken in 1940; this was done regardless of their national, religious or ethnic backgrounds, and citizenship was granted to their descendants as well. Pursuant to Latvia’s Constitution, it is this body of persons which participated in the June 1993 parliamentary elections. Latvia’s present body of citizens includes approximately Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 9 400,000 non-ethnic Latvians, or approximately 25 per cent of the electorate - a figure that reflects the non-ethnic Latvian composition of the electorate prior to the occupation in 1940. Latvia’s democratically elected Parliament, the Saeima, will in the near future adopt a citizenship law which will set the requirements, in accordance with international law, for obtaining Latvian citizenship for residents of Latvia who arrived after 1940. Persons transferred into Latvia during the Soviet occupation exercise freely all rights granted by international human rights instruments. According to experts of the Council of Europe, the protection afforded by Latvia’s legislation is comparable to that provided by the constitutional instruments of most States members of the Council of Europe and guaranteed collectively by the Council of Europe, in particular through the European Convention on Human Rights. Historical minorities of Latvia such as Russians, Belarussians, Poles, Jews and others have their own schools and active national cultural societies, which help to maintain each group’s national identity. A peaceful, legal and pragmatic restoration process has begun in Latvia. Numerous appraisals by the international community have affirmed that this process is in fact peaceful and is being conducted within the confines of international law. Latvia has no reason to hide its internal situation and has thus welcomed numerous examinations of its human rights record. On behalf of Latvia, I should like to thank the Secretary-General and the States Members of the United Nations for the fact-finding mission, headed by the present Assistant Secretary-General for Human Rights, Mr. Ibrahima Fall, which visited Latvia in October 1992. I should like to quote from the Mission’s conclusions: 'Latvia is going through a transitional period following the reestablishment of independence. During this period the Latvian Government is endeavouring to redress certain historical inequities and injustices perpetrated during Soviet rule from 1940 to 1991. 'This has given rise to anxiety among the non-ethnic Latvians about their future status and role in the country. It is this sense of insecurity rather than any gross violation of human rights that is most characteristic of the situation prevailing in Latvia today. 'The information received and examined by the Mission does not reveal gross and systematic violations of human rights in Latvia. Individual violations which have been reported are limited and not related to discriminatory policy as such and they should and can be remedied at the appropriate level. On the positive side, it should be emphasized that no instances of violence, no mass dismissals from employment, exclusion from educational establishments, evictions from apartments, or expulsions were reported.' (A/47/748, paras. 21-23) The report of the United Nations human rights fact-finding mission to Latvia is similar to reports submitted by the Council of Europe, the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe and the European Court of Human Rights. Despite these numerous affirmations that human rights are not being violated in Latvia, it has become the object of political attacks - the Russian Federation constantly accuses Latvia of human rights violations. Latvia has expended great efforts and resources to refute these unsubstantiated allegations. In addition, resources of international organizations, including the United Nations, have been expended. I shall now address the grave financial crisis that faces the United Nations and has forced the Secretary-General to take drastic measures to economize. Latvia believes that a solution to the crisis that is acceptable to all Member States and based on the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations must be found. Latvia wishes to bring to the attention of the General Assembly an ad hoc decision which was made for reasons of financial and political expediency, but which will in fact contribute to the financial crisis. I am referring to the decision taken by the General Assembly in December 1992 to determine, inter alia, the assessment rates of 15 Member States, including Latvia, according to an ad hoc method rather than the standard method for determining capacity to pay. The December 1992 decision is not in accordance with the Charter principle of sovereign equality because the two different methods for determining assessments result in unequal financial obligations for different Member States. Notwithstanding the fact that Latvia and the other two Baltic States are not successors to the former Soviet Union, they have been made to assume excessive financial obligations of the former Soviet Union and even to accept a portion of its contribution to the Working Capital Fund. 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Latvia is now entering its third year as a State Member of the United Nations. We expect to increase our involvement in the work of the United Nations and other international organizations, participating in the search for solutions to global problems. At the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna, we addressed two problem areas where we should be able to make contributions: the rights of minorities and the rights of foreigners. Latvia reiterates the offer it made at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro to host an international conference in its resort city of Jurmala to examine possibilities for redirecting resources from armaments towards rehabilitating the environment. Latvia supports the establishment of the post of United Nations high commissioner for human rights. We also urge an increase in the percentage of the regular budget allocated to the Centre for Human Rights in Geneva. The position of Latvia regarding non-governmental organizations is that they play a valuable role on the international stage, especially in the area of human rights. Their access to the United Nations human-rights system should be increased. With respect to the debate on restructuring the Security Council, Latvia supports increasing the number of members of the Security Council. Such reform must ensure that the Council is adequately balanced between large and small States. Latvia supports the efforts aimed at rationalizing the structure and the agenda of the General Assembly. Latvia welcomes the positive processes under way in the Middle East, South Africa, Cambodia and Haiti. We hope that, with the efforts of the United Nations and other international organizations, peace will prevail in the former Yugoslavia, Georgia, Somalia and elsewhere where blood is still being spilt. Latvia has a history of participation in international affairs, including its term as Presiding Member of the Council of the League of Nations. In order to mark our historic contribution to international relations, and to celebrate the seventy-fifth anniversary of the signing of our declaration of independence, Latvia has undertaken the task of restoring a hall at the United Nations Office in Geneva. This hall, located in the Palais des Nations, and adorned with amber collected from the shores of the Baltic Sea, was decorated and endowed by the Government and the people of Latvia in 1938 as a donation to the League of Nations. May the return of that hall at the Palais des Nations to its original splendour symbolize the victory of justice constituted by the return of Latvia to full membership in the international community. It is my belief that the restoration of our independence will enable Latvia, a small State, to play a greater role in securing peace and democracy in the world. I am convinced that together we can leave our children a better world with more security, more faith and more freedom. It is with satisfaction that my delegation and I would like to congratulate His Excellency Ambassador Samuel Insanally, on his election as President of the forty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly. I wish him success in discharging his duties. My delegation is available and ready to cooperate with him in the task of ensuring a successful conclusion to this session’s deliberations. To His Excellency Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria we extend our congratulations on the wonderful work he did as President of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I should like to take this opportunity to address my special appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, the Secretary-General of our Organization, for his unflinching dedication in the search for solutions to the many problems that affect humankind. I wish to reiterate our gratitude and appreciation for his personal commitment and dedication to the cause of peace and stability in my country. To the new Member States which have just joined this great United Nations family we express our congratulations and our readiness to work with them to fulfil the objectives enshrined in the Charter of the Organization. When I last addressed the Assembly, in 1990, I had the opportunity to say that my Government had begun direct negotiations with RENAMO with a view to putting an end to the long war of destruction and destabilization. For my Government the dialogue had as it main objective - besides ending the war - to restore peace, normalize life and promote understanding among all citizens of Mozambique. These conditions are essential if the process of national reconstruction is to gain root and prosper. It is worth indicating here that, for reasons alien to the Government, the dialogue with RENAMO was complex and too long. We wish to express our appreciation and thanks to the international community for its unwavering support, which helped us to conclude the negotiations successfully and sign the General Peace Agreement in Rome on 4 October 1992. For Mozambique the signing of the General Peace Agreement represents an important step in the life of its people. With it, hopes for the Mozambicans to rebuild their country in a peaceful and harmonious environment were renewed. The fact that almost one year has elapsed without any major breach of the cease-fire is reason for joy. We are witnessing the revival of economic and social activity in the country. The refugees have begun to return. Displaced people are resettling in their areas of origin or in other areas of their choice. The reconstruction of roads, bridges, schools and health centres is under way in spite of the shortage of financial and material resources with which the country is confronted. The flow of people and goods is increasing as the roads are reopening to traffic. We are witnessing a normal movement of people all over the country, except in RENAMO-occupied areas. There is a growing interest on the part of foreigners in seeking investment opportunities in Mozambique. 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The challenges ahead of us are enormous. The war of destabilization that ravaged the country for more than 16 years has caused economic and social damage amounting to about $20 billion. As a direct consequence of this war, 6 million people were displaced or became refugees in neighbouring countries; more than 500,000 children became orphans and an equal number were traumatized. In addition to this, 3000 primary schools and about 1000 health centres were destroyed in rural areas. Together with this, power lines, sugar plants, tea factories - among others - bridges and mines were destroyed. Many agricultural and industrial activities of primary importance were paralysed, thus reducing considerably our capacity to export. Unemployment was aggravated. These are the problems we are endeavouring to solve as we proceed with the implementation of the General Peace Agreement. The demobilization of forces and their economic and social reintegration require a tremendous effort on our part. As can be seen, these challenges cannot be met successfully without the support of the Assembly. The Government of Mozambique has approved a national reconstruction plan the main objective of which is to reactivate the economic and social life of the population so that people may go from a situation in which they survive on emergency aid to one of rehabilitation and sustained development. Thus, the aim of the plan is to put an end to the structural poverty of the population by giving it the means it needs to relaunch productive activity and to become self-sufficient. We believe that in the medium term this plan will contribute to a rapid expansion of essential services in rural areas as well as to that of overall economic and social activity in the country in general. On humanitarian assistance, it is worth noting that with the support of the United Nations we drew up a consolidated programme for action in the repatriation process, demobilization of military units, supply of emergency aid, re-establishment of essential services, and institutional capacity-building in the country. Humanitarian assistance will be required for some years to come until the whole process of resettlement of the population is completed. In spite of these challenges the Government has proceeded with the implementation of the economic recovery programme, with the assistance of the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the European Economic Community (EEC) and other partners. After a decline in the gross domestic product last year we expect a slight growth of about 4 per cent this year thanks to peace and the good climatic conditions we are enjoying in the country. We are convinced that the success of present efforts and of the large national reconstruction plan will, to a great extent, depend on the creative spirit, determination and hard work of all Mozambicans. On the other hand, the success of this same project will also depend on the generous support of the international community. We appeal to our partners to provide timely assistance, inasmuch as the delays we are observing in delivering assistance already committed have, in many cases, been partly responsible for the weak performance of the economy, particularly in the industrial sector. We would like to take this opportunity to recognize and express our thanks to the United Nations, and to all those countries that have contributed funds, resources and personnel to the United Nations Operation in Mozambique (UNOMOZ). We equally thank them and the many non- governmental organizations that have been operating in the country for their assistance in successfully meeting these challenges. We have spoken about encouraging developments in Mozambique. However, we regret to say that the other face of the situation in the country is a source of serious concern. After the international community succeeded in catching up with the initial delay in setting up the UNOMOZ operation, RENAMO found new pretexts to further protract and delay the implementation of the Peace Agreement. In its dilatory manoeuvres RENAMO is moving from precondition to precondition, though many of the preconditions have nothing to do with the General Peace Agreement or are a blatant breach of it. From the very inception, RENAMO delayed sending personnel to fill its positions in the commissions for the implementation of the General Peace Agreement. At present, RENAMO is stating reservations concerning Security Council resolution 863 (1993) on Mozambique, to which my Government fully subscribes. As members know, that resolution calls, among other things, for urgent implementation, without further preconditions, of the process of assembly and demobilization of forces and of beginning the training of the new army. On the consultations for the adoption of the draft electoral law, RENAMO is raising difficulties that can hardly be understood, particularly with respect to the composition of the National Electoral Commission. The organization and holding of multiparty elections is a Government responsibility. The Government cannot excuse Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 7 itself from that responsibility at a moment when the Mozambicans and the international community as a whole are anxiously waiting to see the free and fair multiparty elections that are to be held not later than October 1994. We cannot postpone the elections indefinitely. RENAMO must be made to understand this. The Government will continue to engage in consultations, and will spare no effort to make sure that the elections are held at the proper time. The overview we have just presented compels us to make some observations on the situation in Angola and South Africa, given the affinities of the regional situation as a whole. We are deeply concerned over the resumption of hostilities in Angola because they not only represent a serious threat to peace and to the future of the country but also threaten to perpetuate tension and instability in the whole region of southern Africa. We continue to believe that compliance with the Bicesse Accords, respect for the election results and the unconditional implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions constitute a valid platform in the efforts towards a lasting peace in Angola. We are hopeful that dialogue will prevail in the search for the best solutions to the conflict in Angola. Within that context, my Government fully subscribes to Security Council resolution 864 (1993). Strict observance of the spirit and letter of that resolution by UNITA is a fundamental condition for an end to the protracted and devastating war which is responsible for the great suffering of the Angolan people today. We also believe that compliance with that resolution will certainly lead to humanitarian assistance being channelled to the people in greatest need. I would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm my Government’s readiness to cooperate with the United Nations in the implementation of that resolution. We have followed with great interest the talks within the framework of the Multiparty Negotiating Forum in South Africa. We would like to commend the decision taken by that organ, specifically regarding the creation of the Transitional Executive Council soon to be established as a decisive step in preparing for the first multiracial elections in the country’s history. The end of the apartheid system and the formation of a democratically elected Government will greatly contribute to peace and stability in the region, thus enhancing the prospects for even more prosperous economic cooperation within the context of the Southern African Development Community (SADC). The peoples of southern Africa have high hopes for that organization of regional economic integration as a special forum for harmonizing their economic and social development programmes. The region possesses enormous economic potential yet to be explored, and continues to call for investment in order to become a viable, more competitive economic partner in the international arena. On the Middle East, we welcome the signing of the agreement between the Israeli Government and the Palestine Liberation Organization in Washington on 13 September 1993. This agreement constitutes a historic and important landmark on the road to the solution of the issues in the Middle East conflict. The question of East Timor, whose people shared with Mozambique a common colonial history, remains unresolved. We encourage the ongoing dialogue between Portugal and Indonesia under the auspices of the Secretary- General, aimed at finding a solution that will safeguard the right of the Maubère people to self-determination. We are also convinced that, through dialogue, the other conflicts still prevailing in Africa and other continents will come to satisfactory solutions. The world economy continues to be characterized by stagnant growth with an increasing disparity in development levels. Various factors on the international scene led to this state of affairs. External debt constitutes one of the main obstacles to the economic growth of developing countries. The external debt burden is aggravated by the deteriorating prices of basic export goods and by weak foreign investment in productive areas which could have a positive impact on the balance of payments and on domestic savings. We believe, therefore, that the international community should pay special attention to the external debt of the developing countries and take necessary, adequate measures aimed at finding a definitive solution to this crisis. Moreover, we have noted a decline in financial assistance to the developing countries; such assistance is being diverted to other countries, in Europe, at the very time when we are experiencing a reduction in the flow of official development assistance. This affects the economies of low- income countries. Notwithstanding the enormous efforts undertaken in the structural-adjustment process during the last decade, the economic and social situation in Africa remains very serious. The real economic growth rate in African countries remains far behind the population growth rates. Per capita income 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session and other development factors continue to decrease, and remain among the lowest in the world. If the alarming economic situation I have described is not addressed by the international community, and reversed, the peace dividends resulting from the end of the cold war and from the progress of the democratic process world wide will not benefit all the peoples of the world. It is in this context that we support the efforts to produce a solid consensus on a development agenda to the benefit during this session of the General Assembly. We also believe that a speedy conclusion of the Uruguay Round of negotiations would contribute to a solution of the problems relating to international trade that affect the world economy. With regard to environment, the Republic of Mozambique has established a National Commission for Environment to look after issues in this area. The implementation of 'Agenda 21' in Mozambique has a legal basis within the Republic’s Constitution, which contains provisions relating to the management of natural resources and environment in general. The National Commission for Environment is at present working on harmonizing measures aimed at integrating environmental aspects into economic and social programmes, and it is also producing a National Plan for Environment Management, whose main objective is the promotion of the country’s sustained development. In order to fulfil international obligations in this regard, Mozambique is making the necessary preparations to adhere to the main international Conventions and other agreements on environment. A brief appreciation of the international situation shows that the era of bipolarity has given way to the beginning of an era characterized by dialogue in international cooperation, particularly in joint efforts to face the problems affecting peace, international security and economic and social development. Solving the problems we face today requires the promotion of cooperative relations, based on interdependence, complementarity and mutual benefit between nations. In various parts of the world significant steps have been taken bearing testimony to the prevailing political will for, and commitment to, political, economic and social democratization. However, these efforts are faced with social problems deriving from the institutional and economic fragility of the States involved. It is therefore imperative that the international community take cognizance of these difficulties and adopt measures in support of those efforts. The new challenges we are facing today lead us to believe even more in the United Nations as the most privileged forum for harmonizing the global interests of all peoples of the world, with the aim of fostering an international environment in conformity with the noble principles and objectives enshrined in its Charter. In conclusion, I should like to highlight the importance of peace-keeping and humanitarian assistance in the world, and especially in my own country. In this regard I appeal to Member States to redirect their efforts and resources in order to strengthen further the United Nations. To this end, we should like to appeal to all Member States to channel material and financial resources to the United Nations so that its role as the guardian of international peace and security may continue to be strengthened. First of all, Sir, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Angola and on my own behalf, I congratulate Ambassador Insanally 48 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session warmly on his unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I am convinced that his proven experience and dedication to the noble ideals of our Organization constitute a secure guarantee of the success of this session. To Mr. Stoyan Ganev, his predecessor, I should like to express my sincere gratitude for his exemplary and unselfish manner of directing the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. The results we obtained during that session are undeniable testimony to his valiant contribution in the search for just and lasting solutions to the grave problems with which we are confronted. We are very pleased to welcome the new Members of our Organization. Their admission confirms the universal vocation of the United Nations at a time when its actions are felt all over the world. To the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, I also want to express my Government’s satisfaction at the devotion and energy he has shown during the first year of his difficult mandate, whose principal objective was the constant search for adequate solutions to the problems that afflict all mankind. We would not be wrong to say that under his leadership concrete and decisive steps have already been taken towards the resolution of certain issues that seemed too difficult to resolve. In this context we salute his efforts, within the framework of the restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations system, to give the system a new vitality in the fulfilment of its mission. We also support the mechanisms established for the prevention of conflict, as explained in the report entitled 'An Agenda for Peace', whose sub-title includes the words 'Preventive diplomacy'. My Government continues to support such initiatives and commends the United Nations for the General Assembly’s unanimous adoption of resolution 47/120 B at its forty- seventh session on 20 September 1993. Therefore, the restructuring and revitalization of our Organization should include reform of the Security Council so that it can respond to the realities of today’s world. We understand that restructuring the Security Council - specifically its enlargement - so that it can permit equitable representation of all the regions of the globe is aimed at guaranteeing greater representativeness, credibility and efficiency. We think that the time has come for the defence of peace and international security to be the responsibility of all States. Significant and far-reaching achievements have occurred and are still occurring in international relations, after the end of the East-West confrontation and the cold war. These events are taking place in spite of the proliferation of armed conflicts that put at risk the hope for peace and stability, conditions that are indispensable for the promotion of mutually advantageous international cooperation. With the signing of the peace accords in Washington between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and the Government of Israel, a new era has opened up for the peace process in the Middle East. My Government commends the signing of these accords and hopes that the international community will continue to work for the rights of all the people of that region, in particular so that the opportunity for the Palestinian people to live in peace and freedom will be an irreversible reality. Regarding South Africa, it was with great satisfaction that we heard, in the speech by Mr. Nelson Mandela in this Hall on 24 September 1993, the announcement of the organization of free and democratic elections in April 1994 and the call for the lifting of the sanctions. We also commend the creation of the Transitional Executive Council, which will put an end to three centuries of white minority domination. From this rostrum, my Government would like to add its voice in support of all the initiatives that aim for a peaceful and negotiated solution in South Africa for the peaceful transition of power to the black majority. In this context, my Government hopes that the international community will remain vigilant in order to deter any attempt by extremist groups to derail the present democratic process, which will culminate in the establishment of the right to one man, one vote, in South Africa. While there has been encouraging progress with regard to the conflicts in the Middle East and apartheid, it is unfortunate that the same is not true in relation to other conflicts, such as those in East Timor, the former Yugoslavia, some States of the former Soviet Union, Somalia, Liberia and my own country. As a matter of fact, these conflicts and civil wars continue daily to kill thousands of human beings and to impede the social and economic development of the countries involved. We should like the international community, and the United Nations in particular, to give more attention to the resolution of these conflicts, on the basis of international justice and legality. I should like to express our solidarity with, and encouragement to, the Government of Mozambique and our Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 49 Mozambican brothers and sisters, so that they may, with determination and patience, continue on the paths that will lead that country to a lasting and peaceful solution within the framework of the accords signed in Rome, whose implementation should be scrupulously observed by all interested parties, under the supervision of the United Nations. We welcome the positive signs which resulted from the recent meeting regarding East Timor between the Ministers of Foreign Trade of Portugal and Indonesia, under the auspices of the Secretary-General. We hope that this profitable dialogue will lead to a just solution that takes into account the aspirations of the Maubere people in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and of the Security Council. With regard to Western Sahara, my Government supports the holding of the referendum on self-determination for this Territory under the terms of the resolutions of the Organization of African Unity and of the United Nations. My Government also hopes that the existing obstacles will be overcome as soon as possible. There have lately been startling changes in the world economic situation. This applies especially to third world countries, particularly in Africa. In this regard, while we witness almost linear economic growth in the developed countries, a substantial decrease has been recorded in the less developed countries. The indebtedness and the debt servicing of the less developed countries, together with the great decrease in the prices of raw materials and the recession in the industrialized countries, constitute the principal obstacle to their development and to their full participation in the world economy. In summary, it may be said that the socio-economic situation of the developing countries - in particular, the countries of Africa - is alarming and requires the assistance of international financial institutions. Nevertheless, we are opposed to the doctrine that has been termed the états en échec - the failed States - according to which these countries are not able to resolve their problems by themselves and, therefore, need new 'tutors'. It seems to us important that certain political situations that are a legacy of the past be revised with a view to reaching agreement and reducing the great barriers that exist and the mechanisms that jeopardize real cooperation for the economic, technical and scientific advancement of the developing countries. In this context, we propose a restructuring of the mechanism of international management for economic development and cooperation. My Government shares the opinion that a successful outcome to the forthcoming world conferences on economic and social development and on population is of great importance to the international community so that there may be, at the highest level, an open and frank dialogue with a view to finding the most equitable solutions to the most diverse and burning issues concerning mankind: poverty, hunger and malnutrition - in a word, 'underdevelopment' - that grip a great part of our planet. I should like to refer also to the importance that my Government attaches to environmental issues and the attention that it pays to implementation of the recommendations and decisions of the Rio Conference of 1992. In this context, the Government of Angola has established the post of Secretary of State for the Environment, whose purpose is to apply the recommendations and decisions of the Rio Conference. In addition, an inter-ministerial commission, with an essentially consultative role, has been set up to study and follow closely projects related to the activities of the United Nations Economic and Social Council’s Commission on Sustainable Development. The promotion of and universal respect for human rights remain the prerequisites for the strengthening of international peace and security. The Republic of Angola actively participated in the World Conference on Human Rights, which was held in Vienna, and supported the consensus view. Nevertheless, Angola continues to believe that, in the broad sense, human rights are universal. We believe that there must be no selectivity in the observance of human rights. Nowhere should human rights serve as a pretext for interference in the internal affairs of sovereign States Members of the United Nations. The world and the United Nations have witnessed the evolution of the political situation in my country in recent years - in particular, since 1988. To make possible a better understanding of the phenomena that have contributed to the dramatic situation in Angola, allow me to provide a brief historical overview. 50 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The Angolan Government is ever-conscious of the intrinsic link between peace and socio-economic development, not just for Angola but for all of southern Africa. My Government took the initiative of presenting a peace programme to the then Secretary-General of the United Nations. This programme contained the principles that culminated in the signing of the Accords in New York in December 1988. We recall that these accords provided for the withdrawal of Cuban soldiers from Angola and their return to Cuba, as well as for the withdrawal of the apartheid forces from Angolan territory and the implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978) concerning the independence of Namibia. At that time the international community greeted with satisfaction the New York Accords, which opened a new era in the relations between States in that region. With regard to the internal conflict in Angola, the Government was aware of the fact that only domestic peace, achieved through dialogue and political mediation, would make possible the creation of a favourable framework for a solution of the conflict. Apart from its own efforts, the Government showed that it was sensitive to African initiatives that sought to contribute to the restoration of peace in Angola. Thus it was that, in the framework of the Government’s internal peace plan, we arrived in Gbadolite in June 1989. Unfortunately, the Accords lasted only a short time because UNITA’s friends and allies wanted a different solution. The failure of the Accords was due essentially to bad faith on the part of the head of UNITA. In spite of this failure, the Angolan Government continued to commit itself to economic and political reforms, as well as to a negotiated solution of the conflict. It continued to promote genuine national reconciliation, whose fundamental purpose was to put an end to the conflict with UNITA. After New York and Gbadolite, peace negotiations continued - the Portuguese Government mediating - and the Bicesse Accords were signed on 31 May 1991. After a period of 18 months, during which the Angolan people lived in relative peace, the country’s first multi-party elections were held on 29 and 30 September 1992. As the Assembly is aware, the United Nations considered these elections to be to be free and fair. UNITA was not satisfied with the defeat that the Angolan people had inflicted on it through the ballot-box, and once again showed its Fascist character. It did not hesitate to take up arms again to take power by force. It resumed its previous role as a militarist organization incapable of conforming to democratic rules. Jonas Savimbi’s military option plunged our country into a civil war that has caused incalculable loss of human lives, the destruction of social and economic infrastructure and the displacement of millions of citizens, with such consequences as hunger, poverty, sickness and lack of proper clothing. As we stated in the Security Council on 15 September 1993, the situation in Angola is exceptionally tragic and requires special attention from the international community. Daily, thousands of people die as a direct or indirect consequence of the war. Children, elderly people and women are direct victims of these acts of war. We can declare, without fear of contradiction, that the critical economic and political situation in Angola today bears no similarity whatever to the situation in Somalia, Bosnia, Cambodia or any of the republics of the former Soviet Union. It is our profound hope that peace will be restored to those regions. The international community seems insensitive to our tragedy. It is as if the Angolan people were paying the price for playing the democratic game. Indeed, how are we to understand the curtain of silence that envelops my country? A poor loser will not hesitate to defy the international community with impunity unless it punishes him once and for all. How can one explain that UNITA still maintains offices in certain democratic countries and that some of its officials are still received with great pomp by officials who do not hide their aversion to totalitarianism and are the most ardent defenders of human rights? On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Angola and of its martyred people, who are dying daily by the thousands, I appeal to the United Nations and the international community from this rostrum to help my people and compel the UNITA leader, Jonas Savimbi, once and for all to abandon his military adventurism and respect the will of the Angolan people, as freely expressed at the ballot boxes in September 1992. Speaking to the Security Council last week during its consideration of the evolving situation in Angola, we asked ourselves how long that great organ, responsible for international peace and security, would permit the leader of UNITA to perpetrate with impunity heinous massacres that Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 51 shock the human conscience. These acts discredit and dishonour the United Nations itself and the Security Council, whose resolutions have been purely and simply ignored. We would like to remind this Assembly that since the beginning of the war in Angola in October 1992 the Security Council has adopted 10 resolutions condemning UNITA and demanding that it abandon the military option and resume dialogue aimed at restoring peace. Yet UNITA has met neither demand. Worse yet, in reaction to Security Council resolution 864 (1993) of 15 September 1993, which provides for the imposition of sanctions, UNITA leader Jonas Savimbi attempted once again to dupe international public opinion and the Security Council by declaring a false cease-fire and stipulating conditions at variance with the spirit and letter of the Bicesse Accords, the Abidjan Protocol and the electoral results. The truth, however, is quite different. Not only was the unilateral cease-fire declared by UNITA not respected, but we witnessed an increase in military operations throughout our national territory. As a result, fighting in Kuito and other regions has recently intensified in a desperate UNITA attempt to reoccupy new areas and consolidate its position. Moreover, by making new proposals outside the negotiating framework, Savimbi revealed his obvious intention to ignore the resolutions of the Security Council and seize power for himself at any cost, including the death of hundreds of thousands more Angolans. Savimbi does not want peace without power. Savimbi only wishes to gain time. Obviously, the Government of Angola cannot accept the policy of fait accompli that UNITA wishes to implement by proposing a cease-fire in situ. We believe that there is no good will on UNITA’s part and that it does not wish to establish dialogue to put a definitive end to the war. This armed party is plotting a dangerous manoeuvre with the aim of shirking its obligation to fulfil the Bicesse Accords and the resolutions of the Security Council. The United Nations has a great responsibility in the Angolan process and must not be complacent as regards UNITA. It is important that the prestige of this Organization in the peaceful settlement of the conflict not be jeopardized or challenged by the irreverence of the leader of a rebel political organization. The Government of Angola, the United Nations and the troika of observers of the Angolan peace process have all fallen victim in succession to UNITA’s bad faith over the past 12 months, a bad faith that has characterized the behaviour of Mr. Savimbi in every meeting held since the Namibe, Addis Ababa and Abidjan meetings. In Abidjan the Angolan Government bent over backwards to be flexible. In spite of the involvement of the United Nations Secretary-General’s Special Representative and of the leaders of the delegations of the observer States, UNITA did not sign the Protocol of Understanding which was negotiated and agreed upon to lead to the establishment of a complete cease-fire in Angola. We would like to point out that President Houphouët-Boigny and his Minister of Foreign Affairs have done their best in the search for a just solution to the Angolan conflict. These efforts have not been successful, due solely to the obstinacy of Mr. Savimbi, who says 'Yes' one day and 'No' the next. We therefore consider that it is crucial that the international community identify the transgressor and move vigorously against him in Angola in an act of justice towards our people and Government, so that our hopes for the establishment of democracy will not be frustrated in the midst of the transitional process currently taking place throughout the world. We want a lasting peace based on viable conditions for reconciling all Angolans. In that context, my Government proposed, on 22 September 1993, the following conditions to resolve the post-electoral crisis caused by UNITA. First, UNITA must withdraw its military forces from the areas they occupied illegally following the multi-party elections held on 29 and 30 September 1992, and must then observe the cease-fire under the terms of Security Council 851 (1993) of 15 July 1993. Secondly, after the declaration of a cease-fire, humanitarian assistance should be implemented and the urgent evacuation of the wounded, sick, interested persons and foreigners accomplished. Thirdly, UNITA must accept fully and unequivocally the validity of the Bicesse Accords and the results of the election held in September 1992. Fourthly, UNITA must respect the legislation produced by the instruments of sovereignty established by the elections. The Angolan Government reiterates its willingness to resume negotiations as soon as the conditions for those negotiations have been established. 52 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session In my statement to the Security Council on 15 September 1993 I alerted its members to the crimes committed by UNITA against defenceless civilian populations. These crimes range from the cold-blooded murder of medical personnel and hospital patients, and the hunting down and physical elimination of journalists, family members of Government officials and UNITA dissidents to the bombardment of cities by long-range guns and missiles. I also had the opportunity to discuss the situation prevailing in some regions of Angola, where, as in Kuito, the population has had to eat the flesh of human corpses in order to survive. UNITA has encircled Kuito for more than eight months and does not allow humanitarian assistance to be distributed to the population or allow foreigners to leave the areas in which they found themselves when the war resumed. In Somalia, one warlord, General Mohammed Aidid, has been labelled an undesirable person by the United Nations. An international arrest warrant was issued for that Somali leader. Several days ago the General Assembly elected a group of international jurists whose mandate is to judge those accused of war crimes allegedly committed in the former Yugoslavia. And what is to be said of Jonas Savimbi? Are the crimes that are being committed in Angola under Mr. Savimbi’s order not worse than those which the United Nations has attributed to General Aidid or the crimes that it intends to judge in the former Yugoslavia? The murder of medical personnel and patients in hospitals; the hunting down and execution of journalists; family members of Government leaders and dissidents from UNITA, Jonas Savimbi’s organization; the incineration of political adversaries in huge bonfires; the indiscriminate bombardment of cities with long-range guns and missiles; and UNITA’s ties with the forces of apartheid - what does all this mean? Are these not crimes against humanity? The sanctions that the Security Council decreed and which entered into force on 25 September constitute proof of the commitment of the international community to the Angolan conflict. We hope that these signs will be honoured by Mr. Savimbi and his allies so that dialogue can be resumed as soon as possible, on the basis of the Bicesse Accords, the Abidjan Protocol and on fulfilment of paragraphs 6 and 12 of Security Council resolution 851 (1993). In conclusion, I should like once again, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Angola, to express our profound gratitude for the wide range of support the international community has provided to alleviate the suffering of our people. We hope this assistance will continue in an even more substantial way. We wish to pay here a special debt of gratitude to the humanitarian organizations and in particular the World Food Programme, which, in spite of UNITA’s irresponsible and criminal actions, has continued its operations, risking the lives of its own personnel. We express also our gratitude to the countries that in diverse ways have given humanitarian assistance to the people, who still are in need of it now. Once again, I wish the President every success in the work of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly and hope that its results will contribute to the strengthening of international peace and cooperation. I am extremely pleased to bring warm and cordial greetings from the Government and people of Saint Kitts and Nevis. It is indeed with a profound sense of pleasure and honour that I address this, the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. First, I should like to express my sincere congratulations and appreciation to the outgoing President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the very proficient and skilful manner in which he handled last year’s deliberations. I hasten to extend to you, Sir, our new President, a very hearty welcome. Your presence in the Chair is a source of great joy and pride to all of us from the Caribbean. I know that you will bring your vast experience and great skill to bear on these proceedings. I wish to assure you of my country’s continued support and willing cooperation. I should also like to commend most highly our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose commitment to the furtherance of the cause of peace, equality, freedom and democracy world wide stands out as a testament to hope and prosperity in a time of conflict and social chaos. Last week the world was shocked by the tragedy of the earthquake which caused such extensive loss of life in India. I extend condolences to the Government and people of India on behalf of the Government and people of Saint Kitts and Nevis. I know that the world community will continue to respond in appropriate measure with timely assistance. My Government regrets the startling and violent events that have been occurring in Russia over the past few days, and we express the hope that peace will quickly return and that democracy will indeed come to the people of Russia. On 19 September my country, Saint Kitts and Nevis, celebrated the tenth anniversary of our independence. On 23 September it was 10 years since I had in this Hall announced our nation to the world, indicating the principles that would guide our participation in world affairs and the objectives that we would pursue. The principles enunciated then are timeless and unchanging, and I can only ask the Assembly to revisit them with me as I quote: 'The rights and freedoms embodied in the Constitution of Saint Kitts and Nevis reflect our commitment to the sanctity of human life, and of human dignity, the rights of the individual, and the non-violent pursuit of happiness.' (A/38/PV.3, p. 41) At that time the East and the West stood precariously balanced on the brink of the total nuclear annihilation of the human species. Today the world breathes a collective sigh of relief as the process of reducing nuclear armaments is genuinely proceeding. Initially Saint Kitts and Nevis refused to sign the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Our position was a principled one, because while we supported the objective of stemming the spread of nuclear weapons among countries, we felt that in practical terms it would be meaningless unless those countries with the largest stockpiles of nuclear weapons made meaningful reductions in their arsenals. Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 21 Saint Kitts and Nevis has now signed the Treaty. I call on all countries with nuclear weapons or the capacity to make them to join in the global effort for the complete elimination of nuclear weapons. Our attention is focused now on conventional conflicts in various arenas. The fighting and the attendant atrocities reported from the theatre of conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina represent a serious affront to every principle of human sanctity and human dignity that we share within this body of nations. The United Nations is endeavouring to fulfil a humanitarian mission, but we must redouble our efforts to bring an end to the fighting. We cannot but express our condemnation and abhorrence at the atrocity of 'ethnic cleansing' being attempted in that theatre of conflict. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis appeals to all the parties involved in this brutal conflict to heed the call of the international community to broker a peaceful settlement and to respect the efforts of the United Nations to implement effective programmes aimed at ending the civil war and at providing humanitarian assistance to those victims caught in the crossfire. My Government commends the efforts of the United Nations in delivering humanitarian assistance to the people of Somalia who face the threat of disease, hunger, starvation and imminent death. At the same time, my Government deplores the barbarous attacks on United Nations personnel deployed in Somalia by forces loyal to Somali factions. We would also like to add our voice in protest against the killing of 23 Pakistani peace-keeping soldiers, and others subsequently. Although we would wish to see the perpetrators punished, it is our hope that the United Nations will remain faithful to its original mandate to keep the peace and feed the hungry. My country looks forward to an early end and a permanent solution that will permit the process of development to be resumed. We sincerely hope that this crisis does not threaten the prospects for peace in the Horn of Africa. Elsewhere in Africa hope has come alive. I refer in particular to the developments in South Africa. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis welcomes the announcement of the prospects of non-racial and multi-party elections scheduled to take place in South Africa in April l994. The Caribbean has always been unambiguous and emphatic in its condemnation of apartheid. There is no doubt that our commitment and our principled stand has contributed to the inevitable dismantling of the unjust system of apartheid. We are at the threshold of a new South Africa which offers to its people an unprecedented opportunity to write a new chapter in the history of South Africa whereby the eradication of apartheid could lead to the creation of a new, united, non-racial and democratic society. We are extremely encouraged by the progress in the negotiations taking place between the Government of F. W. de Klerk, Nelson Mandela of the African National Congress (ANC), and members of other political parties in South Africa. While there are still major difficulties, we call upon all parties to seize this opportunity to bring peace and freedom to all South Africans. However, Member Governments must maintain their vigilance until the Transitional Executive Council has been established, with the proper terms of reference clearly outlined and defined, to allow for the integration and active participation of all races within the developmental and governmental process of that country. But Saint Kitts and Nevis supports Nelson Mandela’s call for the removal of sanctions at this time. The involvement and influence of the United Nations in conflict resolution have been outstanding in recent times. In this regard, my delegation wishes to applaud the timely efforts of the United Nations and the Organization of American States (OAS) to bring the relevant parties in the Haitian crisis to the negotiating table. My Government welcomes the Governors Island Agreement brokered by the United Nations, which resulted in talks between President Jean-Bertrand Aristide and the military high command in Haiti. The appointment and installation of Prime Minister Malval, who was chosen by President Aristide, was a significant achievement. The international community must provide support and security to ensure the safe return of President Aristide, following which a major development offensive, with institution-building, must be mounted and sustained. Haiti must be given the same high priority as is accorded to other areas of conflict or poverty in the world. Changes in international affairs are taking place with a startling rapidity and suddenness that could not possibly have been predicted. Who would have expected the surprising but very welcome rapprochement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), which now offers a genuine prospect for peace in the Middle East? The peace prospect is obviously very fragile, but we must all support it and give it every opportunity to prosper. The realities of the present world situation call not for a hardening of traditional attitudes, but for a genuine search for solutions, 22 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session even if they require unprecedented approaches and compromises. Also in relation to that region, we welcome the finalization of the demarcation of the boundary between Kuwait and Iraq, which was accomplished by the Iraq- Kuwait Boundary Demarcation Commission on 20 May 1993. We also welcome the adoption by the Security Council of its resolution 833 (1993), in which it guaranteed the inviolability of the boundary between the two States. We expect that this guarantee will serve as a deterrent against future conflict between Kuwait and Iraq, and also enhance stability and security in the region. Iraq is called upon to respect the terms of Security Council resolution 833 (1993) and other relevant Security Council resolutions. Who would have predicted the fall of the Berlin Wall and the reunification of East and West Germany? Who would have predicted the breakup of the Soviet Union and the subsequent United Nations membership of a large number of new sovereign States? The United Nations has been in the midst of it all. We have welcomed the membership of North and South Korea, ideological differences notwithstanding. And we support their efforts towards reunification. It is clear that membership in the United Nations is neither a deterrent to reunification, as we saw in the case of Germany, nor to fragmentation, as we saw in the case of the Soviet Union. Whatever the aspirations of a country’s people, as determined by that people, these can be accommodated within the framework and forum of the United Nations, which is more effective as an organ operating by a process of inclusion than one operating by a process of exclusion. In that context, my Government calls on the United Nations to begin the process that would eventually lead to the admission of the Republic of China on Taiwan into this Organization. The Republic of China on Taiwan has proved itself to be a country that espouses the principles inherent in the United Nations Charter, a country dedicated to peace, social tranquillity and economic development, not only for its people, but also for the peoples of other nations. I want to extend a warm welcome to those who have become Members of this august body and to congratulate them on seeking membership within this brotherhood of nations. Membership itself implies an acceptance of the United Nations Charter and a recognition of the importance of the Organization’s objectives. I want to assure these new Member States of my Government’s readiness to extend a willing hand of friendship and cooperation as we work together to further the cause of global peace and human development. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis fully subscribes to the policy of universality of membership. It is our strong belief that once a country satisfies the prerequisites for membership it should be allowed to join and to participate actively in the international fraternity of nations dedicated to upholding the principles of the Charter. It is timely, in the context of membership, to examine the issue of the planned restructuring of the United Nations. I would like to underscore the fact that the Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis is fully supportive of the movement towards restructuring the United Nations with a view to ensuring that such restructuring will lead to the creation of more efficient and effective organs that are responsive to the development needs of States Members of the Organization. This restructuring should include both the permanent and the non-permanent membership of the Security Council. As we seek to proceed with plans for the restructuring of the United Nations, the Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis wishes emphasis to be placed on ensuring that equitable geographic representation is seen to be encouraged, especially in respect of decision-making and in respect of positions within the Secretariat. For too long, countries like mine in the Caribbean have not been adequately represented within the United Nations Secretariat. I wish to suggest also that due consideration be given to the establishment of a United Nations office in the eastern Caribbean to serve the interests of the smaller island-States that comprise the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS). We have looked at the questions of membership and restructuring of the United Nations. It is important for us to review the question of the mission of the Organization. The Charter calls for the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples. Ten years after our independence, Saint Kitts and Nevis would like to remind the Assembly of the mission as we perceived it then: 'We seek the establishment of a new international economic order, for a redeployment of the world’s resources and for the implementation of mechanisms to increase the flow of assistance towards the world’s poor.' (A/38/PV.3, p. 42) We ask ourselves: to what extent are these objectives being realized? To what extent is the mission being fulfilled? The answers are gravely disappointing. The new Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 23 international economic order that seems to be emerging is one in which the developed and the more powerful countries are creating mega-sized trading and economic blocs, and seeking to establish rules designed to secure their own aggrandizement at the expense of small developing countries like ours in the Caribbean, which are being quietly but surely marginalized. We see the developed and powerful countries seeking to redeploy the world’s resources, as found in the biodiversity of our forests and the vastness of the ocean resources, for their own benefit, on the spurious ground that the technology is theirs and not ours. We see flows of direct assistance to developing countries drying up, and more so for the countries of the Caribbean. It would appear that the hope of seeing this mission fulfilled is less realizable now than it was 10 years ago. Some will say that the danger of nuclear war is diminished. Some will say that many conflicts are being resolved, even though new ones are springing up. And peace is being realized in many former areas of conflict. That is all true. The question remains, however: What sort of peace are we experiencing? Peace in Haiti is fragile; peace in the Middle East is uneasy; peace in Africa is unstable. I submit that the prospects for lasting peace would be immeasurably enhanced if we sought to achieve that peace through development. Peace and development have always been linked, but they are always portrayed as following parallel courses. My country contends that their paths must be merged and that we must achieve the one, peace, as a consequence of the other, development - development which must be sustainable and sustained. It is important that all sectors of our communities have the opportunity to participate in the process of development and to enjoy its benefits. In Saint Kitts and Nevis, we ensure as a matter of policy that women are empowered to be effective participants in development. Our Ministry of Women’s Affairs designs and implements programmes for training and mobilizing women in a variety of areas essential to the development of our country. This is an approach we recommend to all developing countries as part of the process of maximizing our human resources. My Government welcomes the call for a Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, scheduled to convene in Barbados in April 1994. We hope that this will result in tangible benefits for the small island developing economies of the Caribbean and in a recognition of our special characteristics and needs. There is developing in international affairs - in relation to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the European Common Market and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) - a 'one size fits all' mentality, or a 'one prescription for all countries approach'. These are obviously out of place in matters of development and human needs. The peculiarities and differences which prompted the adoption of special economic arrangements - the Caribbean Basin Initiative, the Trade and Investment Agreement between Canada and the Caribbean Community Countries (CARIBCAN) and the Lomé Convention - are still very present today, and are likely to remain so, because our islands are not going to become any larger. In fact, we suffer from serious coastal erosion, which can be properly addressed only if substantial financial assistance is forthcoming. I appeal to the Member nations of this august body to recognize also the fragility of our export commodities, such as sugar and bananas, as their producers represent the major employers, and they are significant sources of foreign exchange, for many Caribbean countries. Any loss, no matter how small, of the limited access which these products from the Caribbean enjoy could have catastrophic consequences for the economies and lives of the people in the Caribbean, and by extension could undermine the socio-political tranquillity of the region. I cannot overemphasize the vulnerability of the Caribbean’s ecosystem and the need for constant vigilance with respect to its protection and preservation. It is against this backdrop that my Government, along with other Governments of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), strongly condemns the transboundary movement of toxic waste and of nuclear and other hazardous materials through the Caribbean basin. We therefore call upon the industrialized countries to refrain from exporting their waste to or through the Caribbean region. We also deplore the dumping of ship-generated waste in our Caribbean waters, and call upon all ships’ operators to discontinue the practice. Those waters are indeed a significant part of our economic patrimony. The Rio Summit was a watershed for unprecedented partnership and international cooperation in the area of environmental protection. The approach that we as nations adopt on the environment should be modelled in such a way as to demonstrate our commitment to human development, environmental protection and sustainable growth. 24 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session I want to make a strong appeal to the industrialized countries and the multilateral agencies to be more rational and more sensitive to the developmental needs of the developing world, especially island communities, in their approach to dealing with the environment. Environmental concerns must be appropriately considered within the context of sustainable development. The peoples of the developing countries are entitled to an improved standard of life. The industrialized North, therefore, should not use a single policy on environment as a yardstick for assessing an individual country’s eligibility for developmental assistance. My Government firmly believes that our environment must be protected and preserved at all costs - not at the expense of our people’s standard of living, but rather to enhance their quality of life. The desirability of environmental protection must be appropriately balanced against the imperatives of human development. The problem of environmental degradation concerns a global common which we all share, and it is only through international collaboration and an adequate transfer of technical and financial assistance from developed to developing countries that we can begin to arrest and, hence, eventually solve this problem. While we attempt to harness our collective efforts to improve the standard of living of our citizens, we are faced with the increasing danger of drug trafficking and narco-terrorism. We can ill afford to relax our resolve. While we seek peace on other fronts we must continue to wage war relentlessly on the illicit drug trade and those who work so assiduously to bolster it. There is an urgent need for greater financial assistance and technical expertise to combat this problem. It is the children, the flower of our youth, the promise of our nations’ tomorrows, who are being destroyed today. At the historic children’s Summit in 1990, we set ourselves the task of creating a better world for children and of equipping them now to manage it in the future. The challenge is vast, involving their educational, health, physical, mental and psychological development, and we must make ourselves equal to the task. There can be no greater or more noble mission than to ensure that our youth from developing nations, small or large, as from developed nations, is given every opportunity to aspire to a better quality of life. We can better achieve this in a world of peace, and we can better realize and maintain that peace through development. I wish to convey my congratulations to Ambassador Insanally on his election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I wish him luck and success in his high office. Let me also thank the President of the previous General Assembly session, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for his effective guidance of its deliberations. I would also like to express my profound appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary- General of the United Nations, for all his dynamic work in leading this organization. A year has passed since I last had the honour to address the Assembly. As the last Minister of Foreign Affairs of the common State of Czechs and Slovaks, I asked representatives at the forty-seventh session for their understanding and support for the process of transformation taking place at that time in the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, and I reiterated the desire of the new successor States to be admitted to the international community of sovereign States on an equal basis. In addition to its membership in the United Nations, the Slovak Republic today is a member of 53 international organizations, including United Nations specialized agencies, the Council of Europe and the Conference on Security and 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). We declared our interest in the fastest possible integration, together with other countries of the Visegrad Four, in such effective Euro-Atlantic political, security and economic organizations as the European Community, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the Western European Union. Slovakia is building its statehood on civic principles based on respect for individual rights. The objective of the Slovak Republic as a multi-ethnic State is to create a functioning system of ethnic coexistence and guarantees of equal rights and opportunities for all. The President returned to the Chair. The tragedies of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of Georgia alert us to inconsiderate and irresponsible attempts to gain political capital from nationalistic sentiments. We are against steps, regardless of their motivation, that would ultimately lead to the creation of ethnically pure territories and States and that would question or endanger the peaceful coexistence of populations of different ethnic origins. We apply the existing international norms regulating such peaceful coexistence and we favour their further elaboration. We support the idea of adopting a generally binding document on the rights of persons belonging to national, ethnic and other minorities in the United Nations, the CSCE and the Council of Europe. We are convinced that such a document must equally respect the territorial integrity of States and the principle of inviolability of existing borders. Our economic policy aims to build a balanced and prosperous economy based on market principles. Thus far the reform measures have not brought the expected economic revival. The economic difficulties are aggravated by various internal and external factors, among others the conversion of the armaments industry. The 1990 decision on a far-reaching conversion led to the reduction of Slovakia’s military production to an unprecedented 9 per cent of the 1989 level. This political decision to close a whole major branch of Slovak industry without the necessary preparation for a real conversion, though highly moral, did not take into account its economic and social consequences. If we are to attain the necessary economic growth, we need access to the markets of developed nations, something which is increasingly complicated - all the more so because of the economic recession. We are convinced that protectionism is not a solution. We hope that negotiations on the further liberalization of world trade will be successful, in particular the negotiations of the current Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. We also feel encouraged by clear expressions of a political will to reform and remove export controls inherited from the cold war period that now unfairly burden legitimate commerce and unduly restrain growth and opportunities, as recently stated by President Clinton before this body. Incidentally, on this very day, Slovak representatives are signing an association agreement between the Slovak Republic and the European Community in Luxembourg. The association agreement, which we consider the first step in our efforts to gain full membership in the Community, also reflects the general direction of our foreign policy. It encourages further positive development in our country, and we believe that it will help us resolve some of the aforementioned economic problems. The international community is daily confronted with such tragedies as that in Bosnia and Herzegovina or Tajikistan, with countries at the crossroads, such as Russia today, but happily also with encouraging developments, such as those in the Middle East and in South Africa. It is only natural that the United Nations adapt itself to the increased tasks in its mission as the guardian of international peace and security. To manage the ever- increasing load of responsibilities more effectively, it is necessary to pay attention to early warning and preventive action at an early stage. Equally demanding our attention today is the phase of post-conflict peace-building and restoration as a basis for preventing the renewal of conflicts. Regarding the peace-keeping operations of the United Nations, common experience urges us to require improvements in their planning and execution. Every operation should have clearly defined political objectives, an unambiguous mandate, and an understanding of its possible and feasible scope and duration and of available means and support. When the Security Council sets up a new operation, it should define and ensure security and safety conditions and guarantees under which the operation is to be deployed. We support the idea of a universally binding legal instrument on the safety of peace-keeping operations personnel. Troop-contributing countries should also have the possibility, through some regular mechanism, of being constantly informed and consulted prior to and during the whole operation. Another means of enhancing the effectiveness of peace-keeping is increased cooperation between the United Nations and regional arrangements, such as the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. In the Euro-Atlantic area, we should also seek involvement in peace-keeping of Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 11 such organizations as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) or the Western European Union. All these organizations should be mandated in every specific case by the Security Council. Slovakia is among the countries that have been most severely afflicted by the sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We shall provide data on these losses shortly. We believe that the effort to secure effective economic assistance should not be limited to moral appeals to States and institutions. The economic situation of the countries depending on the Danube as their main waterway has been ever more aggravated by arbitrary acts of blockade and other violations of the respective United Nations resolutions and international conventions. We are convinced that such acts require a clear and resolute response. The decision of the Geneva Conference on Disarmament on a mandate for a comprehensive nuclear-test- ban treaty is a major move in itself. It also sends a signal to the whole non-proliferation regime. We support the universal and indefinite extension of the non-proliferation Treaty. We also hope that the question of the nuclear arsenal of the former Soviet Union will be satisfactorily and speedily resolved in the spirit of non-proliferation. Slovakia welcomes the establishment of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms, which we consider to be a first decisive step leading to increased global transparency and constraints in conventional weapons. We are ready to support moves towards enhanced transparency, as well as more detailed information on military holdings and procurement through national production, made under the banner of the United Nations, the Conference on Disarmament or the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. Wishing to ensure full continuity with the activities of Czechoslovakia - an original member of the Conference on Disarmament - and enjoying the support of the Eastern European regional group, the Slovak Republic applied for membership in the Conference on Disarmament. A window of opportunity for Slovakia to become a member was opened by the proposal to gradually enlarge the membership of the Conference. Those on the proposed list of 23 new members should in our opinion be admitted as soon as possible. The World Conference on Human Rights reaffirmed the universality of and respect for human rights and the need for their universal application. It also, appropriately, drew our attention to the vital interdependency of human rights and sustainable development, and their bearing on international peace and stability. We are prepared to support steps towards implementation of its recommendations. Slovakia therefore encourages the establishment of a post of United Nations high commissioner for human rights. Recent developments in many areas of the world where civilian populations are increasingly the targets in predominantly non-international conflicts impel us to demand that States and parties to conflicts strictly observe and enforce the rules and principles of international humanitarian law. We support efforts to bring those who are alleged to have committed war crimes to justice, inter alia through the establishment of an international criminal court. International humanitarian agencies and organizations, whose activities we highly esteem and support, can attest to another deplorable feature of today’s world: the misuse and even the rejection of humanitarian assistance for political reasons. Those conducting humanitarian operations are working under increasingly unsafe conditions. The international community should demand respect for human rights and humanitarian norms by the States and parties to conflicts. Neither should we completely ignore the fact that sanctions which are rightfully applied against those who have breached international peace and security have a direct bearing on the fate and even the lives of innocent civilians. In a true humanitarian spirit, we should at least try to address this aspect of sanctions as well. Furthermore, questions related to large-scale migration, refugees and displaced persons require our urgent attention. The international community should set forth appropriate rules and standards regulating large-scale population movements and seeking solutions for their root causes and consequences. We also feel responsible for the most vulnerable segments of the world population - the women, the children, the disabled and the aged. We are ready to take part in the international community’s efforts to seek means for addressing their needs and concerns. The Slovak Republic is greatly interested in reinforcing the role of the United Nations and enhancing its effectiveness and capacity for action. We wish to join the ranks of those States that support the implementation of the reform process of the United Nations in order to transform it into a more effective and economical organization. Its organizational structure should respond more adequately to current global realities. 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Slovakia is prepared to deliberate on proposals made by other members of the world community, including the proposal to restructure the Security Council, which should maintain its representativity and at the same time its transparent character. We are of the opinion that countries such as Germany and Japan should be invited to assume the responsibilities of permanent members of the Security Council. At the same time, the Slovak Republic observes that the number of States able to contribute - owing to their growing economic influence and role in world affairs - to the objectives of the United Nations is increasing. Any decision on the composition of the Security Council should be the result of a democratic discussion. An expansion of the Security Council must not jeopardize its effectiveness and operational capability. The General Assembly itself, in our opinion, should also play a more important role within the United Nations system. The reform of the Economic and Social Council should continue, with a view to avoiding duplication between the Council and General Assembly agendas. Cost reductions can also be made in the activities of the United Nations Secretariat. When this issue is considered, it should be borne in mind that the Secretariat executes its tasks in response to the requirements of the Member States. The reform of the United Nations should be carried out in the context of the financial situation of the Organization. We consider the change in the financing principles underlying the United Nations regular budget and the budget of peace-keeping operations to be one of the most significant aspects of this restructuring. The Member States should meet their financial obligations to the United Nations fully and in due time. We believe, however, that the rules for determining the contributions of Member States to the United Nations budget should be made more flexible in order to accommodate changes in the economies of individual Member States. The present economic reality, rather than history, should become the main and decisive criterion. Let me conclude by wishing the General Assembly every success in the demanding work that is ahead of it at this session. I wish to begin by congratulating Ambassador Insanally on his election to the high office of the presidency of the General Assembly. He can rest assured that the delegation of Finland will render him its full support in his challenging task. On behalf of my Government, I also wish to congratulate and extend a warm welcome to the new Members among us. Their participation in the work of the United Nations will further strengthen the Organization. Just a few years ago, in a promisingly changing political environment, high hopes were placed in the United Nations. Some of these hopes were fulfilled, others were not. Namibia’s independence process is a fine example of nation-building in which the United Nations played a crucial role. Eritrea is another. Let these be examples of wise and patient conciliation and conflict management. Yet another example is South Africa, where today we see irrevocable changes taking place, leading towards a non-racial and democratic society. I wish to express my Government’s admiration for the achievements of the parties in South Africa in their work for peace, cooperation and mutual respect. Finland has actively supported the shaping of a new South Africa and will continue to do so. We have in recent days witnessed yet another example of brave and visionary leadership which can overcome seemingly insuperable obstacles and lead peoples from a state of war and hatred towards reconciliation. I am referring to the peace accord between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. In this context I wish to pay a tribute to the Government of Norway for its role in bringing the two parties together. The United Nations must now stand ready to play its part in this important endeavour for peace. Finland, together with the other Nordic countries, was among the first to initiate an international support programme for this historic process. The United Nations also has to its credit other achievements in recent years. Among the most important have been the rebuttal of the aggression against Kuwait and the restoration of democracy in Cambodia. However, numerous other conflicts have proved very difficult to solve. War is raging in the former Yugoslavia and in Somalia, Angola, Abkhazia and Nagorny-Karabakh. Conflicts persist in Western Sahara and Cyprus. All these conflicts constitute formidable challenges to the international community and to the United Nations. From that balance sheet of success and failure an important question emerges: how can our Organization be best adapted, reformed and revitalized to face effectively not only the challenges of today but also those of tomorrow? Undoubtedly the United Nations is today a more viable institution than ever before. Nevertheless the many unsolved conflicts illustrate that the United Nations still has serious shortcomings. These stem primarily from the nature of the problems and challenges of the increasingly interdependent global society in which we live. It is now our responsibility to launch a process of reform of the United Nations. It must cover all of the Organization’s agencies, programmes and funds, in both the political and the development fields. It must be undertaken in an integrated manner, with a view to better adapting our instruments of cooperation to the needs of a profoundly changing world. Many crises seem political in nature but have their roots in social injustices and a lack of economic opportunities. The fulfilment of social needs and the promotion of economic development are necessary elements of sustained political stability. Some significant improvements have been made in this field, too, but their scope and importance are clearly dwarfed by the immensity of the challenges. Human development, human rights and the environment are cases in point. Thanks to the dynamic initiatives of our Secretary-General, a process of reform of the United Nations is under way. In addition, several Member States have introduced important proposals for reforming and restructuring our Organization. My own country, together with other Nordic countries, has actively participated in this process, particularly as regards peace-keeping and reform of the United Nations work in the economic and social sector and in the area of humanitarian assistance. World events have forced the United Nations and its Member States to re-examine closely the Organization’s capacity to maintain international peace and security. The Charter provisions as well as the structures and machinery created for this purpose reflect a world that was very different from the one we live in today. That is, of course, the reason for the great attention that has been accorded over the past year or two to what traditionally has been called peace-keeping. The concept of peace-keeping is, as a result of increasingly complex operations, going through a period of evolution. Related activities such as preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-building are the new tools for maintaining international peace and security. Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 27 The United Nations and its Member States must adjust to the rapid growth in and new approaches to peace- keeping operations. The President of the Security Council in his statement of May this year outlined the operational principles in accordance with which such operations should be conducted. My Government fully subscribes to these principles. The great increase in requests for peace-keeping troops, military observers and monitors makes it necessary, in my Government’s view, for the United Nations to adopt stricter and clearer criteria and procedures before launching such operations. The United Nations must not overextend itself; it cannot be present everywhere. Mandates for peace-keeping operations must be precise and clear. The necessary funding must be secured, and before launching any operations the Security Council must see to it that the required contingents are available. Recent experiences also prove that command structures must be clearly spelled out and subsequently fully adhered too. It is not sufficient for the Security Council to agree on resolutions setting up new operations; all the conditions for their implementation must also be at hand. We also face new challenges in disarmament and arms control. The nuclear arms race has stopped, but nuclear proliferation still constitutes a serious potential threat to international security and stability. It is vital to ensure that the Non-Proliferation Treaty regime works efficiently. In general, disarmament and arms regulation should be integrated into the broader agenda of international peace and security. This should be reflected both in the United Nations disarmament machinery and in the Geneva Conference on Disarmament. The review of the composition of the Conference on Disarmament would enhance this objective. We regret that no agreement on this issue has been reached so far. The Security Council is vested with the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. In carrying out its duties, the Council acts on behalf of the entire membership of the United Nations. Trust and confidence in the Council by all Member States is therefore a crucial factor, affecting its ability to engage in conflict resolution. It is only natural that a review be undertaken of the composition of the Security Council in order to make the Council better reflect today’s membership as well as the prevailing political realities. My Government has an open mind on this question. We are ready to accept a limited increase in the membership of the Council, provided that such a change will not affect negatively the capacity of the Council to perform its tasks. Moreover, there would seem to be a need to review the Council’s organization and methods of work. The aim should be to increase transparency and to provide non-members better opportunities to be heard when matters of immediate concern to them are considered by the Council. It would seem desirable - especially in negotiating the mandates and the financing of peace-keeping operations - to involve to a greater extent non-members of the Council also, as provided for by the Charter. Such involvement would be particularly called for in the case of those States that are potential contributors of troops and logistical support. Work on revitalizing the General Assembly and rationalizing its activities is also under way. Certain improvements have already been introduced. However, further efforts have to be made to ensure a more meaningful and responsible role for the Assembly. To enhance the Assembly’s standing and add weight to its resolutions it is, in our view, necessary to establish clear priorities. It is important to focus the work in the Assembly on these priorities and to reduce the number of items on its agenda. Indeed, time has come to consider even some radical methods to enhance the effectiveness of the Assembly. One might ask whether a full-fledged General Assembly session every year is really necessary and productive. Alternatively, a high-level political debate and meetings of the Main Committees might be held every other year. Moreover, the President and the Bureau of a session of the General Assembly could perhaps be designated well before the end of the preceding session. That would permit the officers of the General Assembly and the Secretariat better to prepare the work of the General Assembly. These and other ideas merit further consideration. The economic and social sectors of the United Nations, including the Economic and Social Council itself, are other areas where reforms are being actively discussed. The Nordic countries initiated a reform of the operational activities for development. Although there is virtual agreement on a number of reform issues, there are still details to be settled concerning the governance and financing of the development agencies of the United Nations. I hope that these much needed reforms can be agreed upon by the end of November so that the new structures can be put in place as early as 1994. During the discussions on the ongoing reforms it has become obvious that the extraordinary extent and rapidity of 28 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session economic and social change, as well as the challenges of the global environment, necessitate reforms that are even much more profound. We must now devote our efforts to a reorientation of the United Nations system in this new and daunting environment. We should, in particular, clarify our thinking about the institutional and structural linkages between work on peace and security and work on sustainable development. Likewise, we should establish the true priorities in the economic and social sectors as well as in the United Nations system’s relations with other international organizations. Such rethinking and reform cannot be carried out during one single session of the General Assembly. It will take a sustained effort over several years, which, in turn, presupposes a consensus on the basic outlines of a reform programme. The shaping of a consensus is our primary task. The agenda for development which the Secretary-General will present will no doubt have a catalytic effect in this respect, as could the upcoming important conferences on population, social development and gender issues. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations will, in my view, provide a suitable occasion for launching such an ambitious, fundamental and visionary reform programme. In order for the United Nations to function effectively it must have a solid executive branch, a Secretariat that has at its disposal sufficient human and financial resources. The Secretary-General has taken several steps to streamline the Secretariat and make it a more efficient tool for implementing the decisions of the Member States. But more needs to be done in order to permit the Secretariat to take initiatives and pursue its intellectual leadership role. At a time when resources are scarce and so many new tasks have been entrusted to the United Nations, it is clear that a pruning of activities and rationalization of working methods must be done. The cutting of unnecessary and obsolete programmes must continue. It is the task of the Member States to give guidance to the Secretary-General, but also to draw conclusions and take the necessary decisions. The United Nations should apply the same policy of austerity as national Governments in the prevailing economic circumstances. Perhaps the greatest concern for the United Nations today is the unwillingness of the great majority of Member States to pay their assessed contributions. My delegation has said time and again, and I will repeat it now: Payment of one’s dues is not an option. It is an obligation falling on every Member, big or small. Let it be our collective birthday present to the United Nations at the fiftieth anniversary to see to it that by then there is full compliance with the obligation concerning payment of contributions. Member States, in fulfilling their financial obligations towards the United Nations, have the right to expect full accountability for the resources placed at the disposal of the Organization. It is essential that the Organization exercise prudent economic management and constantly improve the internal control system. We therefore believe that ideas such as the creation of the post of an independent inspector general are well worth considering. The main objective must now be to restore the confidence of the Member States and the general public in our Organization. The United Nations cannot afford to have its public image and integrity tarnished by allegations of mismanagement. As the United Nations approaches its fiftieth anniversary, humanity is faced with formidable challenges. Meeting them will not be easy. And yet, the United Nations now has a better chance than ever to use its full potential and show leadership for the sake of a better future. 'We the peoples of the United Nations, ... united for a better world' has been chosen as the theme for the celebration of our fiftieth anniversary. Let us all together join in making this a reality. The year that has elapsed since the forty- seventh session of the General Assembly was noteworthy for the further growth in the authority and the effectiveness of the United Nations. It testifies, in our view, to the deep understanding that the members of the world community have about the need for close, constructive cooperation in the name of a better future. As I look around this Hall, in which, for the first time, a Head of State of a sovereign Tajikistan is speaking, the words of the great poet Saadi come to my mind: 'The sons of Man are but one body For the Creator made us all from but one beginning'. Now that I find myself here, in the centre for settling the problems of the whole world, I should first of all like to congratulate Mr. Samuel Insanally, the Permanent Representative of Guyana, on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly. Allow me to express the hope Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 5 that this session, under your skilful leadership, Mr. President, will achieve tangible, successful results for the good of all mankind. I should also like to draw attention to the excellent work done by Mr. Stoyan Ganev, President of the General Assembly at its last session; Mr. Ganev both energetically and effectively guided the deliberations on complex political problems. It is with great satisfaction that I greet Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the United Nations, and express to him our sincere gratitude for his tireless efforts to resolve the conflicts in various parts of the world, not excluding my own country. The Republic of Tajikistan is taking its first steps as a subject of international law. It is with deep satisfaction that I note that we have been granted an equal voice in the commonwealth of nations, and we are aware that this honourable right imposes significant duties on us. The two years of our independence, in addition to moments that are undoubtedly positive, have also entailed the harsh trials that my patient and peace-loving people are now going through. It is for the historians to study the root causes, the reasons for the situation in Tajikistan today. I think that my job is to point out just one thing: those whom we believe, on the basis of the law in force in the Republic of Tajikistan, to be guilty of unleashing civil war are guilty of grossly violating the very foundations of any modern society, namely the primacy of law. As in any civil war, in the civil war in Tajikistan there can be no victors. Our urgent task as a nation is to heal, as quickly as possible, the bloody wounds that it has inflicted on our country. The attention the community of nations is paying Tajikistan is understandable. Nor should we be surprised at the variety of opinions we hear when events in the Republic are being analysed. I should like to shed some necessary light on a number of issues. Now that we have set out on the path of independent development, we have run up against the enormous political and socio-economic problems of the transitional period. Our national economy was built up as just one small part of the enormous economic complex of the former USSR, and was basically a provider of raw materials. With the collapse of those economic ties, our Republic has come face to face with many almost insoluble problems. There has been a catastrophic drop in the standard of living, which could hardly fail to lead to an increase in social tension. The power struggle that developed at the same time and the attempts to seize power illegally, by force and undemocratically, have split society apart and led to a senseless, fratricidal war. The results of this we know: thousands of broken lives, thousands of dead and wounded, refugees and missing. Immeasurable political, social and economic harm has been done to the Republic. The internal instability has become the main reason for the economic and political chaos, the total legal confusion and the sharp drop in production. The future of our people - the future of Tajik statehood - has been put in jeopardy. The sixteenth session of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Tajikistan, which was held in these conditions, laid fundamentally new foundations for establishing peace and civil harmony in our country. The Supreme Council has decided in favour of solving all political, social and economic problems solely within the framework of the constitution. A number of important laws have been adopted that are designed to afford citizens social protection and to return them to their homes and peace-time jobs. In accordance with the Constitution, we have elected a leadership for the Supreme Council and formed a Government. Today our society and our people have become aware that the highest power in the State should be the law, and only the law. As the Head of State, I declare, from this rostrum, that we shall adhere to the fundamental principles of the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference and the Paris Charter and other international instruments for the defence of law. We are determined to carry out democratic transformations in our country and to acknowledge and respect philosophical, religious, ideological and political choice as an inalienable right of the individual. Working under the constant pressure of political and socio-economic problems, we have succeeded in a short time in removing the economic blockade from all the regions of the Republic and have begun rebuilding our destroyed national economy and instituting economic reforms in order gradually to introduce a free market. From the beginning of the restoration of our Republic, our Parliament has adhered to the principle of the primacy of law, and in so doing has passed a number of measures, while the Presidium of the Supreme Council has laid down 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session three special decrees on amnesty. Does not this show that we are acting to resolve through political means the problems that have accumulated in our country? We are prepared for dialogue with all the social forces in our country to achieve national reconciliation, civil harmony and stability in Tajikistan. We would like to cooperate constructively with forces of any political orientation acting within the framework of existing law and respecting generally accepted principles of democracy. I would like to inform the world community that Tajikistan is actively working to improve its election laws and to prepare a draft new Constitution in which maximum attention will be given to all problems related to guaranteeing and protecting inalienable human rights. In terms of settling our domestic political problems, we are seriously concerned over the attempts at regionalization of the internal conflict in Tajikistan, a conflict which is still going on in a number of areas along the Tajik-Afghan border. The outbreak of the conflict this summer brought dozens of deaths. Allow me briefly to tell the Assembly my view of the essential reasons for the tensions along and inside the border. Everyone knows that until recently Tajikistan had been systematically subjected to unprovoked acts of armed intervention from the territory of a neighbouring country. Naturally, we understand its internal difficulties related to establishing a centralized State administration. But facts cannot be denied, and we have now been faced with the need seriously to deal with the question of self-defence. We are not hatching any hostile plan with regard to Afghanistan. The measures which we have taken and are taken to strengthen the defence of our border - which is also a border of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) - do not go beyond what is laid down in Article 51 of the United Nations Charter and are fully in keeping with generally accepted norms of international relations. But this, of course, does not mean that that is the only way to solve the problem. And here we are encouraged by the notable speed-up in the negotiating process with the authorities in Kabul. We have achieved a number of positive agreements on a broad spectrum of questions, including normalizing the situation along the Tajik-Afghan border. We think that a permanent, substantive dialogue with the leadership of the Islamic State of Afghanistan will help us remove some other well-known irritants. It is most unfortunate that huge resources are still being spent to support destructive elements based on the territory of Afghanistan. Having gone there from Tajikistan, they are, with the help of extremist groups and the forces of international terrorism, hatching plans forcibly to change the State structure in our country. A legitimate question arises: is it not wiser to use these resources to build rather than to destroy? Another of our problems is that of the Tajik refugees in Afghanistan. There are many versions of how they ended up on the territory of Afghanistan, but that is not the main point, which is that they should return to their homeland as quickly as possible. We express our sincere thanks to the Administration of Afghanistan and to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, who are giving serious attention to those people. As of the middle of September, more than 35,000 Tajik refugees - more than half the total - had returned to their permanent homes from Afghanistan. We hope that the process of voluntary return will continue and that with the support of the authorities of Afghanistan and of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, we shall in the near future be able to put an end once and for all to this painful question. We have already completed our preparation for signing a trilateral agreement between Tajikistan, Afghanistan and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. We hope that the agreement will be signed as soon as possible. From this United Nations rostrum, I should like to say one more thing in this regard. We are firmly convinced that the support of the Administration of Afghanistan in efforts to restore peace to the Afghan land, which has suffered so much, would be in the interests not only of that country but of the region and of the entire world. There was a time when some States spent a great deal of resources on war in Afghanistan. In my view, the time has come to help restore a peaceful life there. A restless, unstable Afghanistan is a threat - and not only to Tajikistan. Regarding our participation in the CIS, I must emphasize that Tajikistan is in favour of strengthening the Commonwealth while observing full respect for the sovereignty and independence of its member States. In this context, I should like to point out the significance of two areas of our activities within the framework of the CIS, activities which are critically important for Tajikistan. I am talking about relations with Russia and with the Central Asian States. Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 7 Russia, as a permanent member of the Security Council, has undergone great trials in taking upon itself the maintenance of peace and stability in virtually all the space and territory of the former Soviet Union. Therefore, the peoples of the former Soviet Union, including Tajikistan, commend and welcome the peace-keeping efforts made by Russia. A positive role in stabilizing the situation in our country has been played by the brotherly support of Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan and the Kyrgyz Republic. Tajikistan also thanks the United States and all the other countries of Europe and Asia that extended the hand of assistance to us during terrible and dark days. We hope that Tajikistan will quickly be removed from the blacklist of conflict areas. In this respect, we count upon the tangible assistance of the world community in restoring our national economy, which has been destroyed by war and by natural disasters. A country which is rich in natural resources, which has an attraction in terms of its economic prospects, needs purposeful assistance in order to be reborn. Allow me to express the hope that that assistance and that support will naturally, in accordance with generally accepted principles in world practice, be given to my country. Tajikistan, which has gone through the horrors of a civil war, views with great concern the course of events in the hot spots of our planet. We know of the pain and suffering of the people of Somalia. We feel the full depth and senselessness of the tragedy of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia, the deadlocked events which have taken place in the Caucasus of the post-Soviet era. We also know firsthand how destructive is the force of local conflicts. That is why we make an urgent appeal to the world community to multiply its efforts to end, and to prevent, that type of conflict. We are firmly convinced that the force of arms, no matter how threatening and frightening they may be, cannot solve a single contentious issue. In this connection, we are seriously concerned by the uncontrolled and unsanctioned trade in arms in areas of intense instability. Essentially, what is happening is a massive arming of entire regions. Indeed, we can imagine how unbelievably difficult it is to take away from a population weapons that they have illegally obtained. On the basis of our own bitter experience, we loudly speak out about the danger of that fateful trend. Today, this destructive impact on our economy has been joined by another: the aspiration of a number of countries to acquire nuclear weapons or the technology to produce them. As a country which has the technology for mining and initially processing uranium, we categorically oppose the use of that priceless source of energy for non-peaceful purposes. We state our unconditional support for the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and we hope that the conference of the States parties to that Treaty, scheduled for 1995, will decide to extend it indefinitely. As the Assembly knows, the end of the cold war and bipolar confrontation gave rise to great hopes on the part of the peoples of the world. Unfortunately, events have not yet justified many of these hopes. None the less, there is one place in the world where notable political events have been observed. We are deeply satisfied with the historic agreements reached between the Palestine Liberation Organization and the State of Israel on mutual recognition. We welcome the decision of the United States of America to recognize the Palestine Liberation Organization, and we commend that great country for its role in supporting peace and stability on earth. The questions which the General Assembly will be discussing at its forty-eighth session show that there is now an onward rush towards the interdependence of nations. In Tajikistan we are convinced of this. We commend the peace-keeping and humanitarian efforts of the United Nations. We are especially proud of Tajikistan’s initiative to include institutions of the Commonwealth of Nations in the broad peace-keeping activities on the territory of our country; that initiative has not been ignored. The mandate for the presence in Tajikistan of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General, Mr. Ismat Kittani, has been extended. The Republic has fruitfully worked with the United Nations Observer Mission, the representative of the High Commissioner for Refugees, and the representatives of other international non-governmental organizations. Our special gratitude goes to the Security Council of the United Nations, which constantly monitors developments in the situation in and around Tajikistan. We sincerely hope that the efforts of the community of nations will be increasingly focused on ensuring the conditions for sustainable development. 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session We wholeheartedly support the principles and recommendations of Agenda 21. We feel that accomplishing that Agenda’s important goals, such as the transfer of technology and resources, will have a favourable impact on disaster areas such as the Aral Sea and areas of great poverty. In conclusion, I would like to assure the Assembly that my people, who have now embarked upon establishing their own statehood and have overcome considerable difficulties in so doing, look to the future with a feeling of great and, I hope, justified optimism. We will spare no effort, we shall use all our energy, in building a genuinely legal, democratic and enlightened State which will not fail to take a worthy place among the civilized countries of the world. It gives me great pleasure to see an eminent son of Guyana guiding this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Sri Lanka and Guyana have a long tradition of cooperation at the United Nations, in the Non-Aligned Movement and in the Commonwealth. Sri Lanka also expresses its appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, who presided over the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. Before I proceed, may I take this opportunity, on behalf of the Government and the people of Sri Lanka, to express our profound sorrow over the terrible tragedy that has struck the people of India in the wake of the devastating earthquake this week. I bring best wishes from His Excellency Dingiri Banda Wijetunga, President of Sri Lanka, and best wishes for the success of this session of the Assembly in its endeavours for world peace. Sri Lanka welcomes the new Member States admitted to the United Nations this year. We thank the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dedication and courageous leadership in meeting the challenges of peace and development that lie ahead. Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 37 It is four years since I last addressed the Assembly. Our hopes voiced at that time for the post-cold-war global order are now being realized, although there are problems of instability in the international arena. The current international political trend gives us fresh hope of relations being conducted between States in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Charter. Regarding Palestine, Sri Lanka has welcomed the mutual recognition between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel. We hope that the interim arrangements now being worked out will lead eventually to a comprehensive and durable settlement of the Palestinian problem in all its aspects. In South Africa, the Non-Aligned Movement’s resolute opposition to apartheid and its advocacy of a free, democratic and non-racial South Africa stands vindicated. As President Nelson Mandela described it last week, 'the countdown to democracy' in South Africa has begun. Cambodia, a founding member of the Non-Aligned Movement, is now free. We welcome this development and congratulate the United Nations on its role. These developments certainly give us encouragement and hope. But this does not mean that the world is now free from tension and disputes. The situation in Bosnia gives grounds for a vote of no-confidence on the political leadership of our times. It is a situation which has shocked the world. It is clear that the international community is still incapable of rising above narrow and parochial considerations. It is vital that an early solution be found which will meet the aspirations of all the parties concerned. We have watched with alarm the rising tide of racism in many countries, which violates the very foundations of their cherished goals and objectives. It is not relevant here to diagnose the causes, but these dangerous and ugly trends must be checked. This is not just a challenge to Governments alone. All men and women of good will must join together to fight this evil. The implementation of recent arms-limitation agreements and the shelving of plans to extend the arms race into outer space have enhanced the prospects for genuine disarmament. Since 1991 world defence spending has been set on a downward course. We must bring about a successful conclusion to the 1995 conference on the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). Sri Lanka is pleased at the recent successful conclusion of the Convention on chemical weapons. At the same time, genuine disarmament must also incorporate measures to reduce the flows of conventional arms. The uncontrolled movement of arms and explosives to extremist fringe groups threatens to destabilize small countries. In a similar context, Sri Lanka wishes to draw the Assembly’s attention to the initiative to enforce an international ban on the use of mines in warfare. The tragic consequences of mine warfare are visible in the thousands of amputees in many parts of the world and call for urgent international attention. Today it is widely recognized that security can no longer be reduced to military considerations alone. Security must take account of economic crises, poverty, hunger, mass migrations, international terrorism and environmental pollution. These developments require the revitalization of the United Nations. In 1995, the United Nations will celebrate its fiftieth anniversary. The founding principle of the United Nations - the sovereign equality of all States - remains valid today. The Secretary-General has emphasized this principle in his report 'An Agenda for Peace'. The principle of sovereign equality must be put into practice if the bold proposals in 'An Agenda for Peace' are to succeed. As the transition to a new global order continues, the United Nations will come under greater pressure to live up to its ideals. However, in order to command the widest possible support, the United Nations must operate on the basis of an acceptable set of guiding principles. With regard to national disputes, United Nations intervention must be considered only upon the request of the Member State concerned. Indigenous peace efforts must be encouraged and respected. Regionalism has received a new impetus. The United Nations should extend its fullest cooperation to these regional trends and initiatives. A lingering obstacle to regional unity is the question of border disputes. The Non-Aligned Movement has made useful proposals in this regard, including the suggestion by Sri Lanka that a border disputes commission be formed. Most recently, the Security Council itself had to lend its authority to resolve the border 38 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session dispute between Kuwait and Iraq, and we support all relevant Security Council resolutions in that regard. Let me now turn to South Asia, my own region, consisting of seven States and accounting for over 1 billion people. Some 12 years ago, I had the pleasure of inaugurating, in Colombo, the first meeting to launch the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). Since then, it has been a matter of constant satisfaction to note the steady development of regional cooperation in South Asia. Today, we had the pleasure of hearing the Prime Minister of Bangladesh, current Chairman of SAARC, under whose able leadership SAARC is moving forward. Last year, during the period of our chairmanship, Sri Lanka guided SAARC in several new directions. These included poverty alleviation, the establishment of the South Asian Preferential Trading Arrangement (SAPTA), the South Asia Development Fund and a Charter for Children. In Sri Lanka’s view, SAARC should now extend its horizon beyond economic and social cooperation. With a view to sharing our regional experience with the international community, Sri Lanka supports the subject of poverty alleviation as a major theme for consideration at the forthcoming World Social Summit. It is our firm conviction that structural adjustment programmes in developing countries must provide a safety net for the poorest of the poor until the fruits of economic growth are widely distributed throughout society. Yesterday, we commemorated the third anniversary of the World Summit for Children. Within SAARC, we have already set ourselves certain attainable mid-decade goals for meeting the basic needs of the children of South Asia. We welcome the World Conference on Women in Beijing as an opportunity to focus world attention on issues related to women and development. As an island nation, Sri Lanka has special interest in international endeavours to create a new legal regime of the oceans. In 1971, the declaration of the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace was proposed by Sri Lanka. The world scene has since changed and the time has now come to examine new, alternative approaches. Yet another regional initiative by Sri Lanka is the Indian Ocean Marine Affairs Conference (IOMAC), a cooperative endeavour to develop the region’s marine resources. The commitment of the Sri Lanka Government to ensuring the human rights of all our citizens is central to all our policies, and we will maintain our policy of candid cooperation with the United Nations. The dictates of humanitarian law must be respected. Where economic sanctions are invoked as a tool of punitive action, let us ensure that the humanitarian needs of the people of the country involved are fully protected. Neither the end of the cold war nor the new thrust of economic liberalism has in any way diminished Sri Lanka’s commitment to non-aligned principles. At the Jakarta Summit, there was a consensus that the political campaigns against racism, colonialism and apartheid had now been largely completed. The central unresolved issue of our time remains the economic disparities between the developed and the developing countries. Economic interdependence is a global reality. We reiterate the Non-Aligned Movement’s appeal to the developed countries to consider favourably the call for a new compact on development between the North and the South, a new liberal democratic partnership for global economic solutions. There is now a relative abundance of liquidity in private markets. Access to these resources is not easily affordable for the developing countries because of the private market rates. A mechanism is therefore needed to bridge what is available and what is affordable. Such an initiative is most urgent in view of the economic difficulties facing developing countries. Furthermore, today there is increased need for global economic cooperation owing to the emergence of many new States. All the needed assistance must be provided for these new States to complete their journey to democracy. But this must not be achieved at the expense of other developing countries. In South Asia, we have embarked on policies of export-led growth and trade and foreign-exchange liberalization. We have done so despite the severe effects on us of unfavourable trends in commodity prices and protectionist measures in the markets of developed countries. Our efforts at national and regional levels will succeed only if there is a reciprocal commitment to free-trade policies at the international level. In this connection, it is imperative that the Uruguay Round of trade negotiations be concluded soon, in a fair and just manner. We hope that the industrialized countries will be able to resolve the issues that divide them. At the same time, however, they must not concentrate on their own problems to the exclusion of a balanced result for all participants in the negotiations. Sri Lanka is an island nation with a unique commitment to social welfare. For many years, it needed virtually no budget for defence. When terrorism broke out in such force, many thought Sri Lanka would disintegrate. Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 39 Most recently, the world was shocked by the brutal assassination of President Ranasinghe Premadasa, the duly elected Head of State. This act of terrorism, aimed at destabilizing the country, was confounded by the peaceful transfer of power within 24 hours, thus vindicating the strength and maturity of Sri Lanka’s constitutional and democratic system. The Government has never wavered from its objective of seeking a political solution to the North-East conflict. I myself have spent some 14 months negotiating with armed groups, to find a peaceful solution acceptable to all. During these 14 months, there was peace in the North and the East but, unfortunately, at the end of this period these groups broke off negotiations for reasons undisclosed to me. I also presided for one and a half years over the All-Party Conference, which examined the question of a political solution for over eight months. A Select Committee of Parliament, chaired by an Opposition Member of Parliament, has been working over many months to reach a political settlement. Thus the search for a political solution continues. In the thick of the conflict we have maintained the flow of food, medical and other supplies, and services such as education and health to the affected areas. Many have acknowledged that this is an exceptional achievement. On the economic front, the Government has steadfastly followed open economic policies since 1977. As a result, Sri Lanka is today well on the road to attaining newlyindustrialized-economy status. Foreign investment recorded a quantum jump last year, clearly reflecting investor confidence in Sri Lanka’s economic stability and predictability. It is our firm conviction that in a multi-ethnic, multicultural society, sustained economic growth is the best defence against divisive forces. When I addressed the Assembly in 1988, I suggested that we project our vision beyond this building, and beyond the resolutions and speeches, to focus on the impact of our work on the millions of people we represent. It would be wise to remind ourselves that the maintenance of world peace is multidimensional and the United Nations political agenda must go hand in hand with its development agenda. Our nations are all travellers together on the road to the future. How will the future judge us? It will not be by our military victories and parades of power, nor by our eloquent debates and sophisticated slogans. We will be judged by our success in turning weapons into tools of development, in banishing poverty, hunger, disease and ignorance and in learning to live in a sustainable environment in harmony with a fragile and finite world. Let me begin by congratulating the President, on his election to his high office. I wish him every success and pledge to him the full support of my delegation. It gives me pleasure to welcome the new Member States which have joined the Organization since the beginning of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly - the new Member States of Andorra, Eritrea, the Czech Republic, Monaco, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Slovakia. With 184 Member States - and even more prospective Members - our Organization is able to claim for itself a higher degree of universality than ever. In extending the reach of the United Nations, we serve the basic goals for which our Organization was brought into being; for the rule of law, freedom and the dignity and worth of the human person are ideals common to all men, irrespective of their cultural or geographical surroundings. But the simple reach of the United Nations must not be confused with its comprehensiveness as an institution. Therefore, as we recommit ourselves to the basic objectives inscribed in the United Nations Charter almost 50 years ago, we must also maintain the flexibility necessary to readjust our structures and working habits accordingly. The question how to maintain the cohesiveness of the United Nations amidst the myriad - and at times conflicting - demands being made of it presents itself nowadays with particular force. Changes on the world stage have taken place with almost dizzying speed in the last four years. The most important of those changes, the passing of the cold war, has created new opportunities for the United Nations and has raised expectations among the peoples of the world at large. At the same time, the world itself has in many ways become more unpredictable, placing serious obstacles on the path of long-term planning. To escape this quandary, there is a need to take a balanced view of what the United Nations can and cannot be expected to do. We must moderate ambition with reality. We must not divorce the words we use from the actions we are willing to take. If we do, we may indeed succeed in building a Platonic city in speech, a United Nations which would stand only a limited chance of ever being actualized, but the down side would be to risk undermining the trust invested by the public in our Organization. On the bright side, a number of recent developments have helped the United Nations in translating its basic vision into reality. Breakthroughs have taken place in regional conflicts which have been a thorn in the side of the international community for several decades. Governments have increasingly come to recognize the growing threat to the ecosystem of our planet. The protection of human rights is no longer seen as the exclusive domain of the nation State. Last but not least, mankind has moved further away from the brink of nuclear Armageddon. Those are considerable accomplishments. But this is none the less hardly the time for members of the community of nations to congratulate each other. There are regions of the world where terrifying carnage is still taking place before our very eyes. Deterioration of the environment, while highly uneven in gravity and scope, is a long way from being reversed. Human-rights abuses continue in many places on an appalling scale. And while the threat of a worldwide nuclear catastrophe may have passed, there is a dangerous proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, bringing uncertainty and new instabilities in its wake. Now is clearly the time to rise above these issues that divide our Assembly and to concentrate our efforts on dealing with such challenges effectively. The landmark peace agreement recently signed between former adversaries in the Middle East should be a source of encouragement to all nations. We are being reminded of the ancient truth that where there is sufficient devotion and will among the parties concerned, there is also a way to solve even the most intractable issues. My Government welcomes the historic accord between the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. We hope that the mutual recognition of the two parties will yield further agreements in the region, paving the way for a comprehensive peace settlement. While paying tribute to the vision and bravery of Israeli and Palestinian leaders, I take this opportunity to congratulate the Government of Norway on its initiative in bringing the ancient adversaries together at the same table, and I also commend the Governments of the United States and Russia for their valuable mediation. It is now up to the world community to provide the political support and the economic aid for reconstruction so vitally needed to keep the process alive. The Nordic Governments, for their part, have 34 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session already decided to participate fully in that endeavour. This is a process which cannot be permitted to fail. The world community has recently witnessed another bold step forward, which, hopefully, also marks an important contribution to international peace and stability. I am referring to the courageous statesmanship of the President of the Russian Federation, Boris Yeltsin, in moving decisively towards democratic elections to Parliament. As the only democratically elected representative of the Russian people, President Yeltsin deserves the vigorous support of the outside world in carrying out his far-reaching programme of reform. A different area offering a glimmer of hope is South Africa. My Government welcomes recent progress towards genuine democracy in South Africa, including the decision to hold free and fair elections next year. The international community should now speedily heed the call of Mr. Nelson Mandela, made from this podium last week, for the removal of all economic sanctions, an action Iceland hopes will serve fully to normalize the status of South Africa in the community of nations. Iceland, for its part, has already abolished the embargo on trade with South Africa. Sadly, we face continuation of the conflicts in the former Yugoslavia, not least the tragic situation prevailing in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It serves to remind us that ethnic conflicts can no longer be regarded as the sole responsibility of individual States. The inhumanity perpetrated on innocent civilians in Bosnia and Herzegovina and other former Yugoslav Republics has reached a point where the international community must act, and decisively, with all the resources provided for in the Charter of the United Nations. My Government fully supports the negotiations sponsored by the United Nations and the European Community, and looks forward to an early agreement and implementation of the Geneva peace plan. The parties to the conflict must be brought to realize that a solution can be found only through peaceful means. Iceland also attaches importance to the effective functioning of the war crimes Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. Those responsible for atrocities must be brought to justice. As the conflict in the former Yugoslavia has exposed the present limitations of regional structures, the United Nations has assumed responsibility for reintroducing peace and stability in the area. Meanwhile, there are outstanding examples of cooperation and coordination between the United Nations and other organizations, including the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Western European Union (WEU) and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) in the implementation of Security Council resolutions with regard to the former Yugoslavia. In Iceland’s view there is a need to develop these relationships further. Suffice it to say that NATO’s readiness to employ military force for the relief of Sarajevo and for the long-term implementation of the Geneva peace plan would serve the interests of the international community and should therefore be welcomed and encouraged. Two years ago we welcomed the three Baltic States, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, as sovereign Members of the United Nations. Since then the world community, and their European neighbours in particular, have reached out and offered cooperation and help in the ongoing reconstruction of those Republics. The Baltic States have, for their part, demonstrated their willingness to live up to the highest standards of democratic societies. They adhere to international instruments and are members of organizations that are fully capable of monitoring their respect for international obligations in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms. I should like to express my Government’s hope that negotiations on the departure of all foreign military forces from Estonia and Latvia will soon be successfully concluded and a clear timetable established. The recent departure of foreign forces from Lithuania should set an example. Restoring the environment and attaining sustainable global development are among the most challenging tasks facing the world community today. The outcome of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro last year, has brought those tasks into sharper focus. The subsequent establishment of the Commission on Sustainable Development was an important step in facilitating international cooperation for the effective follow-up and implementation of the outcome of the Conference. However, declarations, strategies and action plans are only as good as their implementation. If the credibility of the United Nations in this area is to be maintained in the wake of the Rio Conference, we must make sure to obtain real action and results. The action programme contained in Agenda 21 of the Rio Conference provides a sound basis for our individual or joint activities aimed at sustainable development. It does not, however, cover all activities harmful to the environment, including pollution of the marine environment from land-based activities and the depletion of marine living resources in many parts of the world. While the programme contains important recommendations pertinent to these Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 35 issues, the main responsibility for developing global action to protect the marine environment and to conserve its living resources has been delegated to other forums, including the United Nations Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. Iceland has participated actively in that Conference. Together with Argentina, Canada, Chile and New Zealand, Iceland has submitted a draft convention that seeks to deal on a global level with the conservation and rational management of straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks. Consistent with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, the draft convention calls for increased regional cooperation in the establishment of conservation and management measures and elaborates mechanisms for the enforcement of agreed measures. My Government will continue to work with all other interested Governments to achieve results at the next session of the Conference, results acceptable to all fishing nations, both distant-water States and coastal States. As a nation overwhelmingly dependent on marine living resources, Iceland has supported efforts to establish an international regime to govern all aspects of the uses of the oceans. Iceland participated actively in the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea and ratified the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea in 1985. Iceland believes that the Convention provides for a widely acceptable regime for the rational exploitation of the world’s marine resources and establishes rules for a wide range of uses for the seas, thereby reducing the potential for conflict among States in this field. The Government of Iceland is greatly encouraged by the results of the most recent round of consultations, under the auspices of the Secretary-General, directed at addressing problems which have prevented certain industrialized countries from becoming parties to the Convention. We are hopeful that at the next round agreement will be reached on the framework of negotiations which will enable the early entry into force of the Convention with universal participation. As early as 1989 Iceland emphasized in this forum the need for a new international instrument, an 'Earth Charter', which would define the responsibilities and rights of nations with respect to the environment. My Government regrets that an agreement on such a charter was not reached before the Rio Conference. We would therefore strongly support transforming the Rio Declaration into an 'Earth Charter' before the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations two years hence. All nations have an obligation not only to protect and preserve the environment, but also to promote human rights and foster social and economic progress. The United Nations Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna last June was a world event of major significance. The results of the Conference, especially when seen in the context of improvements in the international political climate in the recent past, give us reason to hope for a more effective implementation of human rights and fundamental freedoms everywhere. For the first time ever it appears that the majority of countries in the world now pledge allegiance to the principles of democratic rule of law. Still, we are confronted with breaches of human rights all around the world. In the follow-up to the Conference on Human Rights, we must address such breaches squarely and focus attention on ensuring greater respect and accountability by Governments for the protection of human rights. This means, among other things, devoting more resources to this field as a reflection of the political commitment of Member States. Increased resources are required if the Centre for Human Rights is to be able to provide effective advisory services and human-rights monitoring. At the same time, Iceland would like to support the establishment of the post of high commissioner for human rights. The determination of our countries to promote social progress and better standards of life is an important commitment embedded in the United Nations Charter. Iceland hopes that the world summit in 1995 will serve to bring issues of social development into sharper focus and highlight, in particular, the plight of the more than one billion people living below the absolute poverty line. In this connection, I would like to draw special attention to the growing problem of world population control, which could have serious social, economic and environmental repercussions if not properly managed in the decades ahead. Around 90 per cent of the predicted world population growth between now and the end of the first quarter of the twenty-first century is expected to occur in the developing countries, placing enormous new strains on their resources. Against this background, the decision to convene an international conference on population and development in Cairo next year is to be welcomed. To stimulate social development, we need, among other things, economic growth. The liberalization of world trade is the single most important vehicle for world economic growth. The growing importance of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) is clearly manifested in the 36 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session flood of new accessions and the overriding importance attached to the Uruguay Round by the Governments of the world. Since the end of the cold war, GATT has achieved an even greater role in international relations; countries in transition see it as a vital venue for their relations with each other and for their integration into the world economy. In the last few years political walls between cultures and nations have been demolished. Trade barriers must not, however, be allowed to replace iron curtains. Economic reform, the environment, job-creation and investment, to name but a few, are issues that affect and are affected by international trade. A successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round, which now seems to be within reach, would dramatically improve our ability to deal with those problems through international cooperation and trade. A failure, on the other hand, would be a fatal blow to the multinational trading system and to GATT. Protectionism would again raise its ugly head and conflicts would erupt, with disastrous consequences for the world economy. GATT’s business is therefore the world’s business. The Uruguay Round represents a tremendous opportunity to revitalize world trade. All countries stand to gain from this. The biggest gain will accrue to the developing countries and to economies in transition. We who are gathered here at the General Assembly representing the citizens, our countries’ consumers, cannot and must not allow special-interest groups to block the negotiations in the few strenuous final steps needed to reach the goal before the end of this year. Issues of social and economic development, of human rights and of environmental protection are part and parcel of the notion of extended security, which we are all getting accustomed to in the aftermath of the cold war. Arms control remains, however, a very important element of post-cold-war security. The success achieved in nuclear- and conventional-arms control in recent years represents a historical turning-point which must be exploited for the long-term advancement of global peace and stability. Here, the United Nations is singularly well placed to assume a more active role. This applies to both global perspectives and support for regional initiatives. The systematic acquisition of nuclear warheads, ballistic missiles, and chemical and biological weapons by a number of States is a matter of serious concern to the international community. Non-proliferation should be given priority and efforts made to ensure that the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) is both universally adhered to and indefinitely extended. It is also to be hoped that the present moratorium on nuclear testing will eventually be succeeded by a comprehensive and verifiable test ban. Peace-keeping operations are among the areas where the Organization has enjoyed considerable success. The result is that Member States have placed increasing demands on the Organization. However, the time has now come to review the activities of the United Nations in this field. The goal must be to ensure that peace-keeping operations serve the purpose for which they were intended and that their mandates are specific and more limited in time. In this connection, the idea of a United Nations stand-by force that would enable the United Nations to act swiftly when crises arise should be carefully considered. The existence of such a force would enhance the credibility of and respect for the Organization. Meanwhile, Member States must live up to their current obligations and pay their assessed contributions to peace-keeping operations in full and on time. At the outset of my speech I referred to the need for the United Nations to be responsive to change. Since the last review of the membership of the Security Council took place, there has been a substantial increase in the number of States Members of the United Nations. At the same time the Council has, especially in recent years, increasingly assumed the role envisaged for it in the relevant provisions of the Charter. The time is therefore ripe to review the Council’s membership. The goal of such a review must be to make the Council more representative and thus, indeed, more effective. I would like to welcome initiatives taken recently to streamline the structure of the United Nations and to make its daily operations and management more effective. This is necessary in particular in order for the Organization to regain the trust of its Member States. In this connection, Iceland favours the establishment of a permanent office of inspections and investigations and hopes that such an office will help to ensure that allegations of fraud, waste and corruption are investigated expeditiously. Now, more than ever, there is an opportunity for the United Nations to adapt to the positive political developments of the recent past and to revamp its structures from within. Let us join forces in building a stronger United Nations, a United Nations which embodies the ideals of its founders and remains at the same time responsive to the basic needs of people everywhere. On behalf of the delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, I should like, first of all, to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly for the current session. It is our hope that your efforts will crown the session with success. The common task facing the international community today is to build a new, independent, peaceful and prosperous world. Our planet’s people have an identical aspiration: to build a new and independent world, free from all forms of domination and subjugation, aggression and war. All countries and nations should have unrestricted freedom to choose and develop their own political, economic and social systems on the basis of their sovereign rights, including the right to self-determination. Independence is the life and soul of each country and nation, and the common right of mankind. A steadfast commitment to independence enables each country to safeguard its national dignity and rights, to maintain and consolidate international relationships on a sound basis, to bring about genuine democratization of international society and, furthermore, to help to accelerate the creation of an independent world. The absence of independence will lead to failure to safeguard national sovereignty and dignity or to secure a country’s prosperity and well-being. It is an ineluctable fact that where independence is violated, there will be domination, subordination, subjugation and inequality. We draw this lesson for mankind from the 5,000-year history of the Korean nation, and it applies to the present tumultuous era, with the twenty-first century just round the corner. The developments and events of recent years in the international arena serve to demonstrate clearly once again the correctness of the independent lines and policies of our Republic. We regard independence as our life and soul. It is the cornerstone of the internal and external policies and approaches of our Republic. It is our people’s strong commitment to independence and their principled position that have enabled our country to advance along the road of Socialism. They have chosen this road themselves, under the banner of the Juche idea, without any confusion or twists and turns, without any upheaval or instability. Our Republic has steadily consolidated and developed its foreign relations and has contributed to the common cause of mankind. We derive great satisfaction and pride from the fact that we have stood fast on the independent position that we took up. Our stand is one of principle and consistency: we are not at anyone’s beck and call, nor do we dance to anyone else’s tune. In addition, we have always maintained an independent position in our efforts to achieve peace and peaceful reunification of the country. 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session National reunification is a cause to realize the independence of our nation, while the principle of national independence is the inalienable fundamental principle of reunification. Great national unity is part and parcel of the process of the independent and peaceful reunification of the country. Great national unity is a fundamental prerequisite to, and an essential factor in, the country’s independent and peaceful reunification. Therefore the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has consistently subordinated everything to the goal of national reunification through great national unity incorporating the principle of national independence. The whole history of the efforts for national reunification and in particular the prevailing situation teach us that the Korean people should move towards greater national unity of the whole nation based on the principle of independence in order to attain the country’s reunification. Of course, there still exist differences in ideologies, ideals and political systems within the nation, but these differences could be overcome without much difficulty, since our nation has its own intrinsic common identity that has been shaped and consolidated through the time-honoured history of 5,000 years. Our nation remains closely knit together by kinship as a homogeneous people, a unique entity in the world, and the whole nation, whether in the north, in the south, or abroad, is united by the common desire for national reunification. Members of the Korean nation should not be viewed differently based on whether they live in the north, south or abroad, nor should distance be put between Korean nationals just in order to curry favour with foreign forces. We can no longer engage in antagonism and confrontation at the sacrifice of our great cause. The inter-Korean dialogue has made such epoch-making progress that the Agreement on Reconciliation, Non-Aggression, and Cooperation and Exchanges and the Joint Declaration on the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula were adopted and effectuated in our country. This is intended to serve our nation’s effort to end the antagonism and confrontation and promote reconciliation and unity and break down the wall of division to pave the way for reunification. Our nation is unanimous in its desire and aspiration to achieve unity, transcending all differences, and to make a tangible contribution to the country’s reunification and the prosperity of the reunified country. The respected leader Comrade Kim Il Sung, President of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, has personally authored and published the 'Ten-Point Programme of Great Unity of the Whole Nation for Reunification of the Country' reflecting the desire and will of our nation to terminate the history of division and confrontation and reunify the country. This historic programme provides clarification on how to establish a confederal State through the application of the three principles of independence, peace and great national unity, without any bias against either the north or south, on the basis of coexistence and the equal representation of the two regional governments. The confederal State would be independent, peaceful, non-aligned and neutral, maintaining a balanced posture towards the major Powers. It also envisions the protection of private or corporate capital and assets, and joint stock interests with foreign capital before and after reunification. The Ten-Point Programme of Great Unity of the Whole Nation for Reunification of the Country, which aims to bring about the country’s reunification on the principle of the spirit of national independence, is a charter of national unity and reunification which reflects most comprehensively the will and the aspirations of the Korean nation and takes into full consideration the current international situation. It calls not only on the supporters of reunification but also on those who have feared or remained onlookers to reunification to take a stand for the cause of national unity and reunification. The programme also opens up positive prospects for achieving the historical cause of the country’s reunification within the 1990s. Although obstacles and difficulties still stand in the way of reunification, the entire Korean people will definitely achieve national reunification in great unity, by displaying patriotism and the spirit of national independence. At present, the relaxation of tension and establishment of peace on the Korean peninsula presents itself as an urgent issue, the solution of which allows for no further delay. With a view to easing tension and achieving a durable peace on the Korean peninsula, the Korean Armistice Agreement should, inter alia, be replaced with a peace agreement. In reality, the Korean Armistice Agreement has already become outdated and the armistice mechanism remains in fact paralysed. The continuance in place of the out-of-date armistice arrangements is primarily responsible for a series of complicated and sensitive issues, including the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula - issues still remaining to be resolved. Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 13 The fact that the state of cease-fire and the armistice arrangements of the 1950s remain unchanged even after 40 years is in itself abnormal. It is thanks to the peace-loving policy and the will of the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea that peace and security have been maintained so far on the Korean peninsula. Only the replacement of the Korean Armistice Agreement with a peace agreement will lead to a full and satisfactory resolution of all the issues, including the nuclear issue, will remove hostility in inter-Korean relations and will work in favour of peace in Korea and its peaceful reunification. Such being the case, if the United Nations continues losing sight of the fundamental issues related to peace on the Korean peninsula and instead preoccupies itself with non- essential issues, it will only throw obstacles in the way of a solution of the Korean question. The United Nations should direct its primary attention to the replacement of the Korean Armistice Agreement with a peace agreement, and play its due role in terminating the armistice system and establishing a new peace arrangement. We believe this is the right time for the United Nations to make an innovative decision to dissolve the United Nations Forces Command in south Korea and to replace the Korean Armistice Agreement with a peace agreement in accordance with resolution 3390 (XXX) B adopted by the thirtieth session of the United Nations General Assembly. In this connection we maintain that negotiations among the parties concerned should begin at the earliest possible time to work out a new peace arrangement that will replace the present armistice system. The denuclearization of the Korean peninsula is another essential factor in building a durable peace and security there. The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea remains committed to its consistent position of turning the Korean peninsula into a nuclear-free, peace zone. As we have made clear more than once, we have no nuclear weapons; we have neither the intention nor the need to develop these weapons, nor the financial resources to support their production. We would not object to inspection of our nuclear facilities, but only when impartiality is fully guaranteed. As shown by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea-United States of America talks, the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula is a political issue to be resolved between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of America. It is to be recalled that here in New York last June the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of America issued a joint statement containing their policy commitments related to a fundamental resolution of the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula. The joint statement clarifies, in unambiguous terms, principles of assurances against the threat and use of force including nuclear weapons; peace and security in a nuclear-free Korean peninsula, including impartial application of full-scope safeguards, mutual respect for each other’s sovereignty, and non-interference in each other’s internal affairs; and support for the peaceful reunification of Korea. At the second round of talks in Geneva, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea delegation put forward a proposal on replacing its existing graphite-moderated reactors and associated nuclear facilities with light-water moderated reactors, thus demonstrating with more clarity the transparency and integrity of its non-nuclear policy. If all the commitments the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of America have agreed upon are translated into practice - including assurances against the threat and use of force, including nuclear weapons, and the peaceful use of nuclear energy through light-water moderated reactors, plus the negative security assurances - then the prospects will open up for a fundamental and final resolution of the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula and the basis for the improvement of Democratic People’s Republic of Korea - United States of America relations will be laid down. Furthermore, epoch-making progress will be made in reducing tensions on the Korean peninsula and in ensuring peace and security in Asia and the rest of the world. Initial and meaningful progress in the efforts to resolve the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula is the outcome of the negotiations by the responsible parties. This vividly proves that the only way to resolve the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula lies in dialogue and negotiations. However, we regret to note that a certain amount of pressure has been renewed by those forces that still remain obsessed with an outdated way of thinking at the time when the talks between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of America aimed at resolving the nuclear issue are under way and consultations between our country and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) have been conducted. 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The so-called resolution on our 'nuclear issue' was adopted at the thirty-seventh session of the General Conference of the IAEA, which was held some time ago. This act cannot but be viewed as the product of political conspiracy to impede, by all means, the solution of nuclear issues through negotiations and to stifle our Republic. We regard the adoption of the 'resolution' itself at the General Conference of the IAEA as a wanton violation of our Republic’s sovereignty and part of sinister political offensive aimed at forcing international pressure upon us. The whole process of the General Conference of the IAEA held recently has eloquently shown that the measures taken in the past by the secretariat and Board of Governors were unjustifiable, and, accordingly, the agency has lost face and integrity in the process of solving the 'nuclear issue'. The 'nuclear issue' of the Korean peninsula can be resolved only through talks between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of America, either in the light of its political character or its origin. Accordingly, two rounds of such talks have been held so far, which is well known to the world. This notwithstanding, it is absurd that the Japanese Prime Minister and the South Korean Foreign Minister picked a quarrel with us in this august Assembly a few days ago, clamouring about 'implementing the safeguards agreement' and 'international concern about development of nuclear weapons'. Japan should not mention the fictitious 'development of nuclear weapons', but should give up its attempt to become a military Power and to realize its aim of nuclear armament, which it is accelerating under this pretext. The south Korean authorities should discontinue nuclear-war exercises with foreign forces against fellow countrymen and should not pursue so-called international mutual assistance systems either. Our country, as a member of international society, will implement its commitment to the just and early solution of the nuclear issue. I hope that all the States Members of the United Nations will lend encouragement to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s position in favour of a negotiated resolution of the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula and fully cooperate in taking practical measures to help implement the points agreed upon at the talks between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of America. The peace-loving position of the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to turn the Korean peninsula into a nuclear-free peace zone remains unchanged, and we shall continue our sincere efforts in the future, too, to remove the nuclear threat fundamentally and resolve the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula. Today the world situation and international relations call for an early liquidation of the legacies of the cold-war era that have been negated by history and the prevention of all sorts of attempts to reverse the forward movement of history. Universal disarmament and the abolition world wide of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction are most urgent in eliminating the residue of the cold-war era and attaining peace and security in the world. Everything that threatens the survival of mankind and the devastation of society’s treasures should be abolished. The recent moratorium on nuclear testing introduced by certain nuclear-weapon States can be called a step forward, in the light of the fact that nuclear testing itself is the most dangerous nuclear arms race among the nuclear Powers and a major source of nuclear proliferation. It is our view that, along with the permanent ban on nuclear testing, epoch-- making steps should be taken to destroy a colossal number of the nuclear weapons accumulated on the globe and all sorts of nuclear weapons deployed in other countries. In particular, nuclear weapons deployed on the Korean peninsula and its surrounding regions should be dismantled. Without this solution, any talk about international nuclear non-proliferation and world-wide nuclear disarmament is senseless. The existence of military blocs and the presence of foreign military bases and troops in other countries are the products of cold-war policy and are permanent factors threatening world peace and security. Now that the old structure of the cold war has collapsed, there is no justification whatsoever for the existence of the military blocs and their means for waging wars of aggression. The military blocs established under the pretext of the so-called balance of forces during the cold-war era should be dissolved. Furthermore, the presence of foreign military bases and troops in other countries is a violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of those nations. This runs counter to the trend towards independence of the present era. We demand the closing of all foreign military bases in various parts of the world and the unconditional withdrawal of foreign troops therefrom. Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 15 The peaceful settlement of disputes between countries and nations is one of the important issues in safeguarding world peace and security at present. In different parts of the world we are now witnessing the trampling underfoot of national sovereignty and the escalation of regional, religious and ethnic disputes into full-fledged wars. This has been disturbing peace and security in some regions, and some countries are suffering from severe disasters. Disputes between countries should be resolved through negotiations between the parties concerned in order to meet their mutual interests and serve the cause of world peace. As long as the structure of the existing inequitable international economic order remains the same, it is impossible to eliminate the ever-widening gap between rich and poor, between the developed and the developing countries and save the developing nations from poverty, disease and disasters. The developed countries must accept responsibility for this and refrain from any actions detrimental to the economic development of the developing countries. This was specifically highlighted in the resolution and recommendations adopted by the Tenth Conference of Heads of State or Government of the Non-Aligned Countries. Constructive measures should be taken to resume dialogue between the developed and developing countries, reform the inequitable international economic order and establish a new, equitable international economic order. Along with this, the developing countries should adopt practical measures to realize South-South cooperation, starting from such priority fields as food, agriculture, public health and so on, in an effort to overcome their economic poverty and establish a South-South economic order. The historic tasks and responsibilities the United Nations has assumed before mankind are growing heavier with each passing day, and the world watches the role of the United Nations and its activities. The United Nations should be democratized to meet the requirements of the present situation and the aspirations of its Member States, according to the principles of independence, equality and impartiality. The important point here is that all Member States should be left to fully exercise their sovereignty, regardless of differences in size of population or territory, whether strong or weak, rich or poor. All countries and nations are equal members in international society and are entitled to equal rights. In the world there are big and small countries, but there cannot be senior or junior countries; there are developed and less developed nations, but there cannot be dominating nations and nations destined to be dominated by others. We stand against any privileges being given to any particular nation in international relations. We call for universal adherence to the principles of mutual respect and non-interference in the internal affairs of others, for equality and mutual benefits, and for friendship and cooperation among all the countries to be based on these principles. In the international arena today, some forces are resorting to anachronistic actions; in violation of impartiality and international justice, these forces connive at actions on the part of certain countries that violate international norms on a number of issues, including the nuclear issue, the human rights situation and terrorism, while pretending to be ignorant of them. At the same time, they accuse those countries that disobey them of a 'nuclear threat', of 'human rights violations' and of 'State-sponsored terrorism', imposing unacceptable pressure on them. Unjustifiable and unreasonable actions by a few countries that resort to strong-arm tactics and high-handed behaviour while interfering in the internal affairs of others and applying a double standard to the practice of international relations must no longer be tolerated. The United Nations should undergo restructuring and improvement. Such important measures are needed to meet more effectively the changed reality and new challenges. Primary attention should be paid to reviewing and readjusting the composition of the permanent membership of the United Nations Security Council. As the non-aligned and other developing countries form a majority of the United Nations membership, they should exercise their voice on an equivalent basis and should not be denied the opportunity to take part in the process of resolving major international issues. We hold that the third world countries should, as a matter of course, be included in the permanent membership of the United Nations Security Council, in proportion to the numbers of their members in the Organization. At present, Japan is launching a public relations campaign to gain a seat as a permanent member of the Security Council. But Japan is not assuming its due responsibility for the acts of aggression and war crimes committed during the Second World War and has so far failed to make a clean slate of its past. Therefore, it is not 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session reasonable to talk about its qualification for permanent membership. Only when the United Nations measures up to its own responsibilities and role on an unprejudiced basis can it take its rightful place as the international Organization that serves international justice and champions world peace; only then will it be able to meet the expectations of its Member States. The destiny of each country and nation is closely interlinked with the common destiny of mankind. The world’s people advocating independence should work together in unity to consolidate their respective national independence, to further their countries’ independent development, and to contribute actively to a stronger world peace and security. We fully support the Cambodian people in their efforts to promote national reconciliation, unity and rehabilitation, as we do the peoples of the member States of the Association of South-East Asian Nations in their endeavours to establish a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality in South-East Asia, and we support other Asian people in their struggle to build a new, independent, peaceful and prosperous Asia. We would like to express our firm solidarity with the Palestinian and all the other Arab peoples who are engaged in efforts towards a fair and lasting solution of the Middle East question, including the Palestinian question; to the entire African people in their struggle to overcome socio-economic difficulties and achieve the independent development of their countries; to the Cuban people in their struggle to defend the country’s sovereignty and dignity and the gains of socialism; and to the Latin American peoples in their efforts towards peace and prosperity. The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the Korean people will offer active support and firm solidarity to the people of all countries throughout the world who are struggling to oppose all sorts of domination and subjugation, to build a new society and to promote the common cause of mankind. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is guided by its consistent ideals of independence, peace and friendship in international relations, and these ideals coincide with the ideals of international society. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will continue to hold fast to independence, to further strengthen contacts and cooperation with United Nations Member States, and to remain faithful to the common cause of mankind for global independence. The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea wishes, in conclusion, to express its hope that at its current session the General Assembly will have a successful discussion of all the agenda items placed before it at this session through the concerted efforts of all the representatives of the various countries, thus contributing to building a new, free and peaceful world. I would like to express our warmest congratulations to Guyana and to you personally, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I am also pleased that in the past year the United Nations family has grown to include the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Andorra, Monaco and Eritrea. We wish to extend a special welcome to the last two in view of our long-standing historic and human ties. Italy, deeply committed to European political and economic unity, shares the views expressed by the Belgian Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is the current Chairman of the European Council. We are not simply voicing conventional wisdom if we stress the depth of the transformations that define the times in which we live. Every day brings forth new proof that the end of the cold war has brought us to a watershed. We must carefully decipher the lessons and courageously shoulder the new tasks with which this moment has presented us. As the Secretary-General said in Milan, international law is the main instrument at our disposal; it is not merely a regulatory instrument but the very language of the relations between States. But the social pressures we are now facing are profoundly new, generating changes that international law must begin to reflect as it translates new needs into new institutions. If today we believe we can govern this transformation, and if we refuse to yield to the disorderly growth of a new international order, we have first and foremost the renewed vitality and prominence of the United Nations to thank. The United Nations has evolved on the foundation of practices that are solidly inscribed in the Charter, while discovering new ways to pursue its aims. Take peace-keeping, a practice from the United Nations earliest days that has recently acquired a special role. Today peace is more likely to be threatened by the explosion of internal conflicts (though at times with transnational components) than by acts of open aggression across international borders. Peace-keeping, peace-enforcement, and humanitarian relief missions all take place in the midst of conflicts with complex political causes, and tangled ethnic and national roots. In such an environment, the traditional juxtaposition of diplomacy and military action no longer corresponds to the reality of the present, and a broad initial mandate is not sufficient concretely to define operations in the field. The unity of military command is an unquestionable principle, without which no operation can succeed. However, the political management of an operation cannot be confined strictly to military options, especially when the real issue is not the legitimacy of the use of force (which may be clearly authorized by the Security Council’s mandate), but its advisability and timing in view of the political objectives. I would add that in situations involving crowds of civilians, we must consider making it our policy always to give pride of place to the use of non-lethal anti-riot equipment. This is not only an Italian concern. Spokesmen for other countries have also stressed that countries contributing troops to United Nations peace-keeping missions need mechanisms that would exempt their troops from passively abiding by orders that may be illegal, inconsistent, or in contradiction with the aims of the operation. The United Nations peace-keeping practices reveal an awareness of the need for adequate prior consultation of troop-contributing countries. To this end, while Article 29 of the Charter provides a general guideline for the establishment of bodies subsidiary to the Security Council, Article 44 could provide a more fitting solution to the problem. It provides for the Security Council to establish 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session consultative procedures with non-members of the Security Council that have been requested to contribute troops to peace-keeping and security operations. Today, even in the absence of formal agreements such as those provided for by Article 43, I believe we should extend Article 44, by analogy, to operations conducted under Chapter VII of the Charter. In his 'An Agenda for Peace', the Secretary-General defined peace-building as laying the necessary political and socio-economic foundations for a lasting peace after the phase of open conflict has ended. The reconstruction - or the establishment - of legal and economic institutions in critical areas and countries represents the main prerequisite of an enduring peace. These premises form the basis of what Italy means to propose in order to move beyond the current situation in Somalia - a situation characterized somewhat by giving pride of place to the military aspect of the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM) and by the standstill in the political process. We believe that it is essential that the United Nations step up its political efforts at peacemaking by appointing a personality of great international prestige to renew the political and diplomatic initiative with all the Somali factions. At the same time, the mechanisms of the Addis Ababa Conference should be reactivated in such a way as to increase the involvement of the African nations and their institutions in the normalization of Somalia. But the predominantly political nature of our operation to restore hope in Somalia must also be translated into the progressive reconstruction of Somalia’s basic economic and social structures and the reorganization of a government and its administrative structures. This requires broad development programmes, to which Italy’s commitment has remained unswerving even in the most difficult moments. Italy welcomes the renewed central role of the United Nations, and at the same time supports a reform of its institutional mechanisms. Let us first consider the possibility of a change in the membership of the Security Council. As Italy emphasized to the Secretary-General last June, since the Security Council is moving towards a future of greater burdens and responsibilities, its representativeness and effectiveness must develop in parallel. What we suggest is that, in addition to the permanent members with veto power and the non-permanent members, a third category be established. It would be made up of countries able to make a special contribution to achieving the objectives of the United Nations. What matters is not drawing up controversial lists, but identifying objective criteria for selection, based on economic factors, human resources, culture, and mass communications. These countries would rotate two at a time, thereby becoming semi-permanent members of the Council. We must all recognize the renewed central role of the United Nations in international relations, but avoid interpreting this role in exclusive terms. The regional dimension of multilateralism, which is described in Chapter VIII of the Charter, has today a great role. Take the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), which has been explicitly defined as a regional institution on the basis of the United Nations Charter. Italy is about to assume the chairmanship of the CSCE. We believe that it is being called on to play an increasing role, mainly in preventive diplomacy but also in peace-keeping and in fostering negotiated settlements. In this regional framework, we would welcome more stringent regulations on arms transfers that build on the present United Nations provisions. If it is true that without peace there can be neither development nor satisfaction of social needs, it is also true that conflict is fed everywhere not only by the urge to subjugate the adversary violently but also by the existence of social injustice, imbalance and poverty. The first and basic injustice is the violation of human rights. When the international community defends human rights, it is pursuing absolute and autonomous values that must be protected. At the same time, it is eradicating many of the causes of violence between groups and nations. We hope that an agreement between the groups will finally make it possible to end the fighting in Bosnia. However, as the international community prepares to support the implementation of an agreement, we must not forget the war crimes and the crimes against humanity committed during this tragic conflict. Thus, we applaud the establishment of the International Tribunal and hope that - impartial and free from political influences - it will begin its work at the earliest possible date. Where appropriate, the Tribunal should hand down tough sentences, although I take exception to the death sentence, which Italy firmly opposes on the basis of its time- honoured juridical traditions. Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 17 I wonder if the international community could not summon the same determination to establish an international criminal court to prosecute the most serious human rights violations. Italy is convinced that human rights prosper in systems based on democracy and an open-market economy. That is why we firmly support Governments that are committed to such goals and work courageously through hardships and temporary crises. An issue of great contemporary relevance is the protection of minorities - which cannot be separated from the protection of individuals, for the two issues are based on the same hopes, the same principles of freedom and the same respect for cultural, religious and philosophical differences. Too often, the territorial integrity of the State has been contrasted with the rights of minorities. Instead, we must demonstrate that in a democracy, a democracy that leaves room for direct participation and for true pluralism of identity and choice, it is possible to balance these two equally worthy values. We must demonstrate that there is no contradiction between the protection of minorities and the stability of borders. On the contrary, as the experience of my country shows, they can reinforce each other. The principles, institutions and rights that make peace more solid are a primary consideration. But we must never underestimate the often-decisive role played by weapons. The accumulation and development of weapons endangers stability since the perception of a threat triggers actions that are harmful for peace and economically ruinous. That is why disarmament and non-proliferation, even in the post-cold-war era, must remain one of our main objectives and why we highly value the message delivered from this podium by the President of the United States. We need to complete past disarmament initiatives that we have agreed to and begun, and both confirm and expand existing tools. We strongly support the early ratification of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty II (START II). The Non-Proliferation Treaty must be strictly observed, which is why North Korea’s unclear attitude towards that Treaty is a matter of such great concern. That Treaty must also be strengthened and made universal. In 1995, we should all join together to renew the Treaty unconditionally and for an indefinite period. Today we are witnessing the emergence of a collective consciousness, the expansion of a shared system of values, an international citizenship based on common, objective interests and the spread of more uniform lifestyles. An Italian philosopher, Giambattista Vico, wrote: 'Ultimately, once the cities got to know each other, having shared dealings in war, alliances and trade, they came, to an unprecedented extent, to the recognition of natural civic rights as a natural right of all peoples, that is of all united nations - as if the world were one large city - which is the law of humankind.' That was written in the early eighteenth century. Faced with a world beset by multiple conflicts, in which individual nations or groups often pursue their interests through the use of force, it would be intellectually dishonest and morally reprehensible to adopt attitudes of resignation or fatalism. Violence is no more natural than peaceful coexistence and collaboration between peoples and groups. Acting against violence and for coexistence is therefore not only morally desirable, but actually practicable. One such possibility has been eloquently demonstrated in recent days by the hopeful development of a peaceful future in the Middle East thanks to the courage of the Israelis, the Palestinians and the Arab countries. As a Mediterranean country with a long tradition of active involvement in the cause of stability and peace in the area, Italy is ready to contribute further to help the entire region take the first steps on a long and complex journey toward peace and cooperation, with borders permanently defined in accordance with Security Council resolutions. The same possibility is confirmed by the promising steps being taken towards democracy and coexistence in South Africa. The awareness of the possibility and the moral duty to act must also inspire our attitude towards the economic and social problems that dehumanize the lives of millions of people all over the world. I am referring to development policies, which should be conducted in a spirit of solidarity and on the basis of multilateral coordination. Such coordination must also be extended to bilateral initiatives, while we also need closer cooperation between agencies. That approach has already produced successful results in Mozambique and Eritrea, and even in war-torn Somalia. It must now be applied to endorse the peace process in the Middle East. The donors’ conference about to open in Washington will provide an important occasion to translate our political support into action. We know the limits of our actions, and we cannot allow ourselves to be swayed by the temptations of noble but abstract Utopias. It is our responsibility to draw up 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session principles and instruments that are valid for the times in which we live and that can help us to manage and to transform in a more rational and humane way the reality that surrounds us. Each country must promote this action on its own or through alliances or other groups. But it is ultimately here, in the framework of this Organization and in view of its universal aims and membership, that each country will have to contribute to the solution of these problems. To do this, we must not limit ourselves to declaring principles but, rather, on the basis of those principles we must be willing to hand the United Nations the tools it needs. The international community - in other words, we as Member States - is giving the United Nations greater and greater responsibilities. But the responsibilities of the United Nations are our responsibilities. The problems of the United Nations are our problems. It is with great pleasure that I congratulate you, Sir, and the Republic of Guyana, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. In so doing, I wish to reaffirm the traditional ties of friendship between Brazil and Guyana. I am certain that you will contribute to making this session of the General Assembly a landmark in the path towards progress and democracy among nations. I would also like to express to Mr. Stoyan Ganev, respected jurist from the Republic of Bulgaria and President of the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session, our recognition for the work he accomplished. The strong and innovative leadership provided by Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali will continue to be a factor in furthering the work of our Organization. At the opening of the debate at this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, we are, once again, being swept by the winds of change. A fresh breeze, bringing us the message that understanding and peace may finally prevail over selfish interest, is blowing from the Near East, cradle of some of the most valuable moral lessons on which our planetary civilization is built. Man’s adventure on Earth, driven by reason and by dreams, has unfolded within the tension between self-interest and solidarity. In the dialectic interaction between solidarity and self-interest which has shaped and continues to shape the destinies of mankind, solidarity has just attained a great victory, allowing us greater optimism about the future and about the possibility of the materialization of the perpetual peace of which Immanuel Kant spoke. Indeed, following the high hopes ushered in by the end of the cold war, we were forced to postpone any exclamations of joy as we witnessed the much-heralded new order transform itself into growing disorder, marked by the re-emergence of conflicts rooted in particularisms, which were supposed to be among the closed chapters of history. We have noticed that the inherent preoccupations of the cold war have shifted from an East-West axis to a North- South orientation. New concepts have been used to justify discriminatory acts with repercussions for the countries of the South. Some of these concepts were presented under the cloak of humanitarian or moral values, such as the so-called 'right of intervention' and 'good governance'; others are renewed versions of old practices, such as eco-protectionism. At the same time, the countries of the North tightened their controls on the entry of dispossessed people from the South, many of whom came from former colonies. Thus, peace of mind was to be preserved along with the exclusive privileges of post-industrial society. At the same time, just when they were enjoying new heights of freedom, some of the peoples formerly subjected to authoritarian rule were carried away in nationalistic exaltation, the consequences of which continue to parade before spectators who are as shocked as they are powerless. It was as 'glad tidings', in an almost Biblical sense, that the world welcomed the news that peace and understanding were possible in a region marked up to now by pain and conflict. The handshake between Mr. Yitzhak Rabin and Mr. Yasser Arafat is emblematic of the close of this century, a symbol indicating that history is not over, as some have suggested, but rather that it is just beginning, after a long, dark and turbulent pre-history, in which the mark of Cain has always prevailed over the profound desire for lasting peace felt by all peoples. In this same spirit, I reiterate the solidarity of Brazil with the Russian people, who continue to face the challenges of the process of democratic transition, which we are confident will succeed in their country. It is therefore with renewed faith in the ability of mankind to find solutions to the problems it continuously creates for itself that we begin our work at this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Exactly thirty years ago, another Minister of External Relations of Brazil, a career diplomat like myself, Ambassador João Augusto de Araujo Castro, pointed out that the task of the United Nations could be summed up in what he called the '3 D’s': Disarmament, Development, Decolonization. Today, with the virtual elimination of the last remnants of colonialism, I could paraphrase him by stating that the international agenda is once again structured around three 'D’s': Democracy, Development, Disarmament, with their ramifications in the areas of human rights, the environment and international security. The changes we have witnessed have not been limited to the international sphere. Ethical advancements have also been made in the domestic sphere of countries, where ethics have prevailed over the petty interplay of interests which usually makes up day-to-day politics and which leads so many young people to disbelief and to turn away from the ideal of citizenship, without which man cannot fully realize his calling as a social being. I believe that I can proudly assert that my country, Brazil, despite the inherent problems of underdevelopment, has placed itself at the forefront of this 'ethicalization' of political relations, which goes far beyond the almost bureaucratic concept of 'good governance'. We can still hear the echoes - and the world’s most important opinion makers did not fail to register them - of the resounding popular campaign which, in perfect harmony with the legislative and judiciary branches of the Brazilian Government, led to the impeachment of a president. Through an exclusively internal process, which emerged and developed within the Brazilian people and their legitimate representatives, a rarely seen lesson in citizenship was given, by the use of a legal instrument which, though present in other countries, had never been implemented to its ultimate consequences as it was in Brazil. In this process the Brazilian people counted on the support of a press which, with courage and boldness, put to good use the freedom it was once again enjoying after two decades of authoritarian rule. It is with justifiable pride that I am able to state, before this world assembly, that Brazil has etched a mark - and not a minor one - in the evolution of political institutions. I am certain that the peaceful and strictly legal and constitutional manner in which this transition took place in Brazil will be a necessary reference in books that may come to be written about the history of democracy in our time. I would like to stress that the process which led to this feat - and a feat indeed it was - was set in motion and ran its course neither as the product of any form of external pressure, nor in response to any action inspired by standards of governance imposed from outside, but solely and exclusively as the result of the deepest sense of citizenship shared by Brazilians of every social class. Since taking office, President Itamar Franco has imposed upon himself and upon the Government he leads absolute respect for the Constitution and for the laws of the Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 3 country and, above all, for the unchanging principles of law and ethics. Among the constitutional rights of the human being and of the citizen are those laid down in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which our Constitution incorporates and expands upon. Ensuring respect for those rights - in protecting indigenous populations, in safeguarding children and families, in guaranteeing political freedom and access to justice - has been the determined policy of the current Government, and is the challenge we face after a long period in which economic growth and social development did not tread convergent paths. Within an atmosphere of freedom in which the project of building an open democratic and pluralistic society is moving forward, we are seeking to solve our macroeconomic problems while steering clear of the authoritarian temptation of recourse to technocratic formulas based on closed decision-making structures. Although it may seem, on occasion, more efficient, technocracy tends too frequently to impose excessive sacrifices on the poorest and most vulnerable sectors of the population. The road we are following - that the Government of President Itamar Franco is following - is another, perhaps more complex and arduous one, but certainly one that is more democratic and more capable of leading to consensual and sustainable results. The Brazilian Government and society are both aware that the difficult issues we are confronted with in the area of human rights are deeply intertwined with the social imbalances inherited from decades of insensitivity rooted in authoritarian rule. Democracy, human rights and development make up another indissoluble triad. None of those terms can be brought to complete fruition in the absence of the other two; that is why the Brazilian Government attaches such importance to the resumption of growth and the expansion of employment along with a fairer distribution of income, the only solid and sustainable basis with which to ensure social development and the full realization of human rights. That is also the reason for the importance attached to programmes, such as the programme to combat hunger, which have emerged in our society and which can count on the full and resolute support of the Government. We know only too well, however, that problems in the area of human rights - to which recent incidents that shocked Brazilian society and the world bear witness - cannot wait for development to be consolidated and for welfare to reach all of society. At the same time as we seek to solve them radically - that is, by attacking their social and economic roots - we must also attend to the more immediate aspects. To this end, the Government is determined to act, at different levels, under the inspiration and the guidance of the President, who is personally committed to this task. Transparency in the decisions and actions of the Government constitutes an important aspect of Brazilian politics. Such transparency manifests itself in, among other actions, the fluid and cooperative dialogue maintained with segments and organizations of society dedicated to the struggle for the observance of human rights in the country. This open and constructive spirit is not restricted, by the way, within our own borders: we seek and maintain cooperation on issues related to human rights with other countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with which we are devising new methods of action for safeguarding the rule of law and in favour of the adequate protection of human rights on the basis of mutual respect. We do not disregard the fact that impunity may turn out to be the Achilles’ heel of any policy aimed at the full implementation of human rights and the elimination of violence. For this reason, the President has personally determined measures - whose implementation he has been following - for every case in which the human rights of children, of indigenous populations, of women or of any citizen have been violated. ln this endeavour, he has the support of Brazilian society, which will not tolerate impunity as it did not tolerate corruption and the breach of ethical standards in politics. With specific reference to indigenous populations, we are currently proceeding with the necessary strengthening of the Government’s presence in the Amazon region in order to protect simultaneously the population and the environment, both of which are frequently exposed to predatory activities; these result from an encounter of civilizations that began five centuries ago and extends up to today. Here again, the dialectics of solidarity and self-interest are at work; the increased effectiveness of actions undertaken by the Brazilian Government in the Amazon region, in conformity with the full and irrevocable exercise of our sovereignty, is fundamental if we are to ensure the protection and defence of all the region’s inhabitants and, in particular, those of the Brazilian indigenous protected areas, which amount to the impressive total of over 800,000 square kilometres. The special importance we attach to human rights in the domestic sphere is also reflected in our diplomatic action, as was evidenced at the World Conference held in Vienna last June. The nomination of Brazil to chair the drafting committee of the Conference was both an honour and a challenge; we offered our collaboration with satisfaction with a view to the Vienna consensus being expressed at the highest and most democratic level. The Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action constitute a significant advance in the promotion and protection of human rights, including by refining concepts now unquestionably acknowledged as universal. By reaffirming the interdependence of all human rights, all of which require equal protection, the Declaration recognizes that individual rights become little more than legal fiction if the bearers of such rights and the States which must guarantee them lack the material resources with which to ensure them. The promotion and the defence of the democratic regime inside each country are not sufficient: a vigorous effort of democratization of international relations is essential, in conformity with two notable phenomena of current times: the wide consensus on the advantages of representative democracy and the growing linkage between the domestic and the international spheres. This twofold perception leads us of necessity to the recognition that the democratic ideal is applicable with equal validity to relations between nations. We note with satisfaction the establishment of a virtual consensus on the need to update the composition of the Security Council. It is our understanding that the growing role of the Council in matters which affect the fundamental interests of Member States corresponds to the need to ensure a more representative composition, and so enhance the Council’s legitimacy and its efficiency. The reform of the Council must be achieved in such a way as not to aggravate further the imbalance between developed and developing countries in the decision-making process of the United Nations. The General Assembly, as the definitive democratic organ within the United Nations system, must play a decisive role in shaping that process. The democratization of relations between nations demands that the international order protect them and guarantee their rights against illicit acts and abuses of power. There can be no democratic society if the rule of law is not strictly observed and if the less powerful are not sheltered from arbitrary acts by those who wield force and power. In today’s world, it is no longer admissible to say, in the words of Pascal’s well-known aphorism, that 'as it was not possible to make the righteous mighty, the mighty were made righteous'. The material progress of peoples is to a large extent the product of their own, irreplaceable efforts. It is beyond doubt, however, that such progress is contingent upon the prevalence of a favourable external environment. It is therefore imperative that international society, acting in solidarity, encourage the creation of conditions for progress, not for the preservation of privilege. Apart from its intrinsic importance, the development of all nations is the only factor that can genuinely reduce the imbalances that are so patently expressed, for instance, in the growing flow of migrants and refugees. In a global society, social justice becomes an indispensable condition for preventing crises, for alleviating tension, for consolidating democracy and for promoting human rights. If we are to undertake a wide-ranging exercise of preventive diplomacy we must realize that only socially and environmentally sustainable economic development provides an effective means to accomplish our goals. In the pursuit of development the United Nations has a fundamental role to play. We must make sure that the Organization will act urgently to impart renewed life to its commitment to development and, therefore, also its capacities in the economic and social field. Imbued with this hope, Brazil has supported and continues to support vigorously the initiative of an agenda for development. We are confident that the Secretary-General will present us with a proposal that will be no less innovative, bold and rich in ideas than was 'An Agenda for Peace'. Similarly, great store is set by the work of the Commission on Sustainable Development. Brazil expects the Commission to be an effective tool for putting into effect the commitments undertaken in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. In the same vein we give our wholehearted support to the holding of the World Summit for Social Development, a most timely initiative of the Government of Chile, a country to which we are linked by close ties of South American brotherhood and partnership in the Rio Group. We should not however be misguided by illusions. Only a dynamic insertion in the cross-currents of trade and technology will allow developing countries to reap their fair share of the fruits of progress. To that end we advocate a strengthened multilateral trading system that can guarantee both an adequate reward for our effort at trade liberalization and a normative framework to discourage protectionism and unilateral measures. Today that entails the need for a prompt and balanced conclusion of the Uruguay Round, without discrimination or impositions. The significance of the Uruguay Round projects far beyond its strictly commercial aspects. Its successful outcome will be instrumental in framing an international order that is open and propitious for cooperation, thus preventing a splintering of economic relations into self-contained blocs. The vigorous involvement of the community of nations in the pursuit of development must be consonant with the principle of State sovereignty. Brazil views the sovereign nation-State as the basis for the legal and political international order. It must not be weakened lest we undermine the very basis of international representation and of the multilateral system. Attempts to play down the principle of national sovereignty - which incidentally are hardly ever targeted at the more powerful States - would be a step backwards in the effort towards more democratic international relations. At a moment when we are building the future multilateral system we should not allow differences in power among nations to replace the sovereign equality of States. The warning sounded by Ruy Barbosa, the distinguished Brazilian jurist and statesman, at the Second Peace Conference of the Hague in 1907, remains fully valid. In discussing the composition of the Permanent Court of Arbitration he stressed that if certain proposals were to prevail, then: 'The great Powers would no longer be more formidable only as a result of the strength of their armies or of their fleets. They would also enjoy a superior legal status in the international judicial forum, thus claiming a privileged situation in the very institution to which the administration of justice among nations is to be entrusted.' The international order we seek to build rests also on a third pillar, that of disarmament. Brazil, along with its neighbours and partners in Latin America, particularly Argentina, has been making an important contribution to advancing disarmament and international security. The revision of the Treaty of Tlatelolco, the establishment and work of the Brazil-Argentina Agency for Accounting and Control of Nuclear Material (ABACC) and the Quadripartite Agreement on International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Safeguards, which have just been approved by the Brazilian Chamber of Deputies, thus meeting an important requirement for ratification, provide the international community with the guarantees of our commitment to the peaceful use of nuclear energy. We reaffirm our support for the non-proliferation, in all its forms, of weapons of mass destruction. In relation to chemical weapons, we, with Chile and Argentina, have already signed the Mendoza Declaration in which we solemnly renounced the possession and production of such weapons. We were equally active participants in the process that led to the adoption of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, signed in Paris early this year. We are gratified by the current observance, although on a somewhat fragile basis, of a moratorium on nuclear tests. We hope that the climate resulting from this moratorium will bring forth the early conclusion, through multilateral negotiations, of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. Brazil, as is well known, has been participating in a clearly positive and transparent way in the process of establishing the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms. Brazil’s experience in the field of peace-building and confidence-building is noteworthy. Brazil shares almost 17,000 kilometres of land borders with 10 different neighbouring countries. No other nation has had uninterrupted relations of peace and cooperation for so long and with so many neighbouring States. Very few countries spend as little on arms - as a percentage of national product - as Brazil. At the same time Brazil does not renounce its right to maintain, in good harmony with its neighbours and partners, an adequate and legitimate defence capacity. Nor does it renounce its right to have access to technology necessary for the well-being of the Brazilian people. By undertaking firm and unambiguous commitments in the field of non-proliferation and disarmament, Brazil believes it is entitled to expect from its more developed partners unimpeded access to high technology, if necessary on a commercial basis. Recent history gives proof that, despite persistent and serious shortcomings, United Nations peace-keeping operations are important for overcoming situations of conflict, some of which are quite old, complex and delicate. The need for an improved conceptual framework for peace- keeping operations must be kept under constant review by the General Assembly. It is expected that the United Nations will contribute with sober effectiveness to maintaining peace and security wherever they may be threatened. Brazil currently participates with a significant contingent of military observers in United Nations peace- keeping efforts. We intend to expand our presence in this field and we are actively examining ways and means to do this. Within that context it is essential to rectify the serious political and strategic mistake of envisaging the South as an area of international instability. Quite the contrary, various regions such as Latin America provide examples of stable relations of cooperation based on mutual trust, as illustrated by the vigorous processes of Latin American integration which, far beyond their mercantile aspects, are the material expression of a political project aimed at international cooperation and solidarity. Such processes, including that of the Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR), are in stark contrast with the trends of fragmentation seen in other parts of the world. Yet another clear demonstration of the potential for cooperation is taking shape in the Community of Portuguese- Speaking Countries. Far more than a means of expression, 'lusiphonia' is the hallmark of a frame of mind, a form of being, a way of life predicated on tolerance and open relations among different peoples. The Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South Atlantic reinforces our links to sister nations in Africa. The enhancement of political and economic relations within the Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South Atlantic is a goal towards which we are determined to work, having regard, among other issues, to the constitution of a vast area free of the nuclear threat. We furthermore expect to have the pleasure of celebrating the full admission to the South Atlantic community of a democratic and united South Africa, free forever from the scourge of racism. The historic speech delivered by Mr. Nelson Mandela just a few days ago from this same rostrum warrants the expectation and confirms the idea that in spite of remaining obstacles the process of democratization in South Africa is now irreversible. We are forced to admit that serious areas of tension continue to exist in the world. By virtue of our historical ties of friendship, cooperation and cultural kinship with Angola, the situation in that country is of particular concern to us. The international community, through the United Nations, has a fundamental role to play in the defence of democracy in Angola and in the utter rejection of the use of force as a means of achieving political gains. Peace must prevail in Angola in full compliance with the Bicesse Accords and all the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. We remain gravely concerned about the situation of human rights and democracy in Haiti. The prospect for a prompt solution to the crisis in that country is high on our agenda. We look forward to the return of President Jean- Bertrand Aristide on 30 October. The restoration of peace in the former Yugoslavia is a priority for the international community in order to bring to an end the suffering of the populations involved in that conflict. A willingness to achieve agreements acceptable to all parties must prevail in Geneva, as in the capitals of the former federation. That willingness alone can enable the United Nations to play its irreplaceable role in bringing peace to that region. Our example, and our response to these challenges, will frame the future order to which we all aspire: an order that is democratic, stable, disarmed and committed to the material and spiritual development of all nations. The humanistic vision that inspires us was forcefully expressed by a Brazilian poet and diplomat, João Cabral de Melo Neto, in these words: 'Learn this: that man is the best measure always, And more: that life, not death, is the measure of man.' It gives me pleasure to start out by congratulating you on your election as President of the General Assembly of the United Nations at its forty-eighth session. I should also like to pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for his able stewardship of the previous session of the Assembly. Also, I should like to set on record our appreciation for the outstanding efforts of the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to attain the goals of the United Nations and to fulfil the growing responsibilities entrusted to the world body in behalf of world peace. We do note that the changes sweeping across the world today impose upon the United Nations additional responsibilities which the President, Government and people of Lebanon view with hope and optimism. Therefore, we are all called upon to provide the United Nations with the necessary means for fulfilling its expanding mandates. By the same token, the United Nations should for its part streamline its operations in order to adapt to the demands of the future. I take this opportunity to welcome the Member States which have recently been admitted to the membership of the United Nations. This is yet another indication of the universality of this Organization and a confirmation of the growing need for it. As the current decade brings us closer to the end of another century in the history of mankind, we now have a clearer picture of the issues and concerns that dominate the thinking of the peoples of the world. In dealing with the spectrum of these questions, we need to rely first and foremost on rational thinking. The wealth of experience drawn from the lessons learned from the numerous conflicts that have taken place throughout this century has taught us that the path of peace is, in the final analysis, the optimal course to follow, as all other avenues have proven futile. The era of a divided world based on blocs and polarization, which severely strained international relations and precipitated crises for many decades, is now over. Therefore, the world is now ready to develop a universal vision of mankind based on a universal code of ethics and set of human rights. The United Nations Organization, which has long suffered from rivalries that paralysed it and placed severe constraints on its potential, is increasingly called upon, in an unprecedented fashion, to engage in peace-keeping activities. Despite the fact that its current operations are somewhat different from the conventional functions originally envisioned for the Organization, its operations demonstrate the growing need for this world body to lend confidence and credibility to the multinational effort in dealing with challenges and conflicts in a fair and sound manner. We believe that understanding between States and peoples hinges upon the preservation of democracy and human rights. Such understanding would in turn contribute significantly to the elimination of regional and global disputes, in keeping with a major principle set forth in the Charter of the United Nations. Here, I would be remiss if I did not recall Lebanon’s contribution to the drafting of the Charter as well as of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, for Lebanon was a member of the Special Committee entrusted with the drafting of both instruments. Lebanon’s well-known tradition of firm commitment to the principles of democracy, freedom and human rights, and its success in upholding those principles despite the dangers that threatened it for many years, remains faithful to the basic pillars upon which our pluralistic, open and creative society rests. Lebanon, which has withstood the trying years of its plight, is now facing its critical challenges with the vigour of renewed and consolidated national unity. It has 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session incorporated those principles into the fabric of its identity. Thus, the new constitution proclaims that Lebanon is 'Arab in identity and affiliation, a founder and active member of the League of Arab States, fully committed to its covenants; and a founding and active member of the United Nations Organization, fully committed to its Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The State is an embodiment of all these principles, in all areas and spheres wherever they apply, without exception.' In view of its singular experience, Lebanon deserves your support and a pledge from the world community not only to provide material assistance and help in the reconstruction of what the civil war has destroyed, but to bolster the Lebanese system. The need for the example set by this system is all the more urgent in our world today, given the many ethnic and religious conflicts currently raging in various regions. Lebanon, with its time-honoured tradition of coexistence, moderation and tolerance emanating from these lofty human values, can indeed be a living example to those even in advanced societies who are searching for a successful formula for social harmony. This is especially true now that Lebanon has put its tragedy behind it and embarked on a course of accord and concord. The great majority of the Lebanese lived through the years of war and bore the brunt of its devastation without having any real belief in bellicosity or its causes. Throughout the war, some one million students continued to attend their schools and colleges as if to express, through pursuit of education, their rejection of war. The same majority continued to discharge its duties towards society and the State in many parts of the country. Even ordinary civilian crimes did not rise noticeably during the war. All this confirms that the Lebanese, who settled this problem a long time ago, not only in texts and precedents, but also in their daily routines and life-styles, are proud to be able to present to the world, after their long suffering, a true example fashioned from first-hand experience of the resilience of human nature with its wealth of intellect and vivid diversity. In our common interest we must all seek to safeguard such a legacy and protect it from violence. This is particularly true in the case of the Middle East region, which has traditionally and historically suffered from the interference of foreign powers and the struggles of interest and conflict that transcended national frontiers, and even the entire region, to pose a threat to world peace in its entirety. Given the magnitude and intensity of the conflicts that have ravaged Lebanon soil, the survival of our country proves that the Lebanese nation is too strong to be eliminated and that it has long-established traditions that will stand the test of time. The people of Lebanon has demonstrated great stamina and resilience in the face of overwhelming odds. Lebanon is committed to realizing its aspirations and determined to achieve progress within the context of the opportunities offered by the modern world. If the armed conflicts and hostilities of recent decades have drained many of our resources, our potential and our capabilities must henceforth be channelled to face up to and overcome the common challenges that confront mankind everywhere. To this end, the Lebanese Government is striving to restore Lebanon to its special position in the community of civilized nations. The emphasis is on achievements that will make the Lebanese individual capable of facing the future. Lebanon considers that its major loss, perhaps, has been the migration of many of its most talented and highly skilled young people. One of our major concerns now is to create favourable conditions that will attract them back. It is our hope that our human resources will be highly instrumental in expediting the reconstruction of the better society we all aspire to see: a society that enjoys peace, democracy and prosperity. Lebanon, whose people suffered enormous hardship during the dark years of war, fully recognizes and appreciates the various tragedies and pains that afflict some parts of the world today. As we reaffirm our permanent commitment to peace and to the Charter of the United Nations, and to the tenets that emanate from them, we stress our adherence to and respect for an integrated system of values which includes human rights, freedom and dignity. Indeed, this should be the ultimate goal of every undertaking and endeavour. Early on, the United Nations took cognizance of the situation in Lebanon, as attested to by the many resolutions adopted by the Security Council on the Lebanese crisis. Some people may not be aware that between 1968 and 1993 more than 80 United Nations resolutions and statements on Lebanon were adopted. This is a large number of resolutions in comparison with other crises. Lebanon has an imposing file indeed with both the General Assembly and the Security Council. If the sheer volume of United Nations Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 13 official records on Lebanon is compared with that of the documents submitted to ordinary courts of law, it will become clear instantly that, on the scales of international justice, the weight of evidence tips the scales in favour of Lebanon. Justice and law have been, and continue to be, on the side of Lebanon. Notwithstanding, the Lebanese have always been deeply disappointed by the fact that political interests have continued to outweigh justice and the rule of law, and led to the application of double standards regardless of the scores of resolutions that have been adopted right here in the United Nations in support of the legitimate demands of Lebanon, a country that sought effective recourse from the United Nations. All those United Nations resolutions have called for ending violence in Lebanon and for respecting its sovereignty and territorial integrity, and thus have reaffirmed the country’s political independence and national sovereignty. Therefore, we must give credit to the Organization for its initial favourable response in regard to Lebanon, especially in terms of the need to implement Security Council resolution 425 (1978) and the establishment of the United Nations peace-keeping force in southern Lebanon. I avail myself of this opportunity to recognize the effective role played by the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL). May I pay tribute to the many United Nations personnel who have made sacrifices, including the loss of life, in the line of duty in southern Lebanon. To those contingents and to the friendly countries that have contributed troops, we express our deep gratitude. However, as we look forward to the future - having taken firm and crucial steps towards restoring normalcy, with the substantial and effective help of Syria in disarming the militias, ending the internecine fighting and restoring the authority of the State, we feel we have the right to call upon the United Nations at a time when its role is being redefined in consonance with current global changes, to act decisively in Lebanon. More specifically, we expect the United Nations to work forcefully for the implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978), and to ensure Israel’s total withdrawal to the internationally recognized boundaries. It is not an overstatement to point out that peace in Lebanon has been, and continues to be, the sine qua non for stability in the Middle East and for the establishment of a just and comprehensive peace in the entire region. Any peace arrangements will remain fragile and incomplete should the international community choose to tolerate the continuation of a situation that threatens Lebanon with potentially explosive disputes. The Lebanese have agreed by consensus on a new formula for national reconciliation, which was worked out in 1989 at Taif in Saudi Arabia. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia played the principal role in working out that formula, which later became Lebanon’s constitution. Furthermore, Saudi Arabia, in keeping with a long-standing tradition, together with other members of the Gulf Cooperation Council continues to donate substantial assistance towards the reconstruction of Lebanon. With the same goal in mind, the Lebanese Government undertook the implementation of a rehabilitation programme in all spheres of life and in an unmistakable atmosphere of international confidence. Gradually, Lebanon began to restore its traditional, regional and international role. This permitted Lebanese energies to be unleashed, and gave rise to creative initiatives for reconstructing and developing the country. In all this, Lebanon has faced up to occupation and violence, by adopting a stance anchored in the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our country, which draws its strength from the steadfastness and resilience of its people, has reaffirmed time and again its right to live in dignity and to ensure the freedom of its territory. The Lebanese Government is heavily engaged in the reconstruction effort and the enhancement of civilian life in order to promote stability throughout the region. Israeli acts of aggression, which have clear objectives and purposes, have been met by the Lebanese with a high sense of responsibility, solidarity and internal unity. Our unchanging, spontaneous response is insistence on peace and on securing the security and progress of our country, which has paid dearly for having been used as an arena to settle accounts among conflicting parties. An insistence on peace was the driving force that prompted the Lebanese to return immediately to their villages and farms following the most recent Israeli aggression. They pitched tents in front of their demolished homes, thus demonstrating their deep attachment to the land and their loyalty to the territory and its bounties. The true nature of the Al-Khiyam detention camp, where Israeli military authorities hold more than 200 Lebanese citizens without any legal grounds, is well known to United Nations officials and to Member States. Indeed, the case of those detainees is common knowledge in the international media. Moreover, 100 other Lebanese prisoners are being held in various prisons inside Israel. Despite the repeated appeals by the Commission on Human Rights and Amnesty International and the demands made by 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session the Lebanese Government and human-rights societies in Lebanon and the rest of the Arab world, the Israeli authorities refuse to release them. Furthermore, for more than eight years, Israel has denied the International Committee of the Red Cross as well as family members access to visit those prisoners. It is high time indeed for Israel to respond to the appeals of international bodies by releasing those hostages promptly, thus putting an end to their drawn out suffering and the agony of their families. In fact, Israel is duty-bound to do so in compliance with the relevant international treaties and conventions. The positive developments now taking place daily in Lebanon are the most articulate expression of the Lebanese refusal to permit their country once again to be a victim of the Middle East conflict at a time when the winds of peace are starting to blow towards the region. Lebanon yearns for peace and has consistently opted for peace throughout its history. In fact, Lebanon can thrive only in an atmosphere of peace and stability. Indeed, its role in its own region and in the world at large cannot be performed in the midst of violence and war. Lebanon believes that the Middle East region, if it enjoys a just and comprehensive peace, will be in a position to contribute incalculable services to mankind. All the peoples of the region, including the Lebanese, have enormous potential, backed by a great cultural heritage and diverse capabilities. Energies and resources that have long been squandered on war could then be harnessed in the service of social and economic development as we stand on the threshold of the twenty-first century with all its promise of achievements to come. Against this backdrop, and in view of the regional and international developments that have made it possible to initiate negotiations with Israel, Lebanon participated in those negotiations two years ago despite the fact that parts of its territory have been under occupation as a result of an act of aggression committed by Israel in 1978 - and not because of a state of war with Israel. Lebanon’s just case firmly rests on a series of United Nations resolutions adopted over the past 15 years, all of which demand Israel’s withdrawal and define the necessary means and modalities required to achieve it. If Israel uses the security of its northern border as a pretext, we would argue that all the measures taken by Israel, including the occupation of territory, have contributed to the disruption of security. In fact, Lebanon and the international community are more than ever convinced that the only way to ensure regional security is to end the occupation of Lebanese territory and desisting from tampering with the security and safety of its population. Forty-five years of unabated disputes, conflicts and wars have created certain outlooks. Changing such outlooks will require great political courage and deep understanding on the part of those who are interested in peace. Large-scale direct support will also be needed, along with innovative thinking to shake ourselves loose from traditional frames of mind. More than ever before, the Middle East sorely needs brave, innovative approaches if it is to attain a firm and lasting peace. Lebanon, which is participating in the peace talks in order to liberate its lands and lay the foundations of a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East, wishes to point out the following: First, Lebanon demands the total withdrawal of Israel from all occupied Lebanese territories under Security Council resolutions 425 (1978) and 426 (1978). The Lebanese armed forces will assume full responsibility for security in the southern and western regions should Israel implement the provisions of those two resolutions. Secondly, Lebanon, which believes in and seeks peace, would be among the first beneficiaries of a just peace as it expands to encompass the entire region. Along with its Arab brethren, Lebanon will be an active participant in making peace and in supporting its development and advocating its consolidation as the underpinning of life in the Middle East. Thirdly, Lebanon which has had very painful experiences as a result of the policy of the singling out of certain countries and imposing partial solutions, believes that peace is indivisible, especially in cases where issues are closely interrelated, as is the case in the Middle East. We also believe that unilateral and partial arrangements are bound to give rise to nothing but new disputes and conflicts. In this context, I should like to affirm, on the basis of the object-lessons learnt from our common experience, that there can be no firm and lasting peace in the Middle East without Lebanon and Syria. The accord reached between Israel and the Palestinians will remain a mere single step unless it is quickly complemented by substantive solutions on the other Arab tracks. Lebanon, which is extremely limited in the size of its territory, has a delicate population composition and scant economic resources, cannot provide a solution for Palestinians who have been uprooted from their land. The responsibility for returning the Palestinians Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 15 to their homeland and for finding a satisfactory solution to their status remains within the competence of the international community. If we really wish to put an end once for all to the chapters of pain and anguish in the Middle East, then the cause of the Palestinians should be addressed in such a manner that may ensure for them a decent life commensurate with their legitimate aspirations and the aspirations of all our countries after human rights. Fourthly, in order to achieve peace, Lebanon is willing to cooperate fully with the two co-sponsors of the peace conference, particularly the United States of America, to reach a comprehensive and just solution that would safeguard the right of all parties to permanent peace, and put an end once and for all to conflicts in the region. Towards that end, Lebanon stands ready to assume its due share of the responsibility. This is the first occasion on which I have had the honour to appear before this lofty international body to speak on behalf of my country, Paraguay. I do so with the profound satisfaction of representing a genuinely democratic Government that has emerged from free elections, and as the first civilian citizen who has held the presidency of the Republic in 39 years. I wish to congratulate you, President Insanally. Your election, based on your solid professional knowledge and your long political career, is a tribute to you personally and to your country, Guyana, which you so worthily represent. I am pleased to recall in this context that Paraguay, since it entered the United Nations as a founding Member in 1945, has always championed the right to the self-determination of peoples and the independence of political communities which, like Guyana, came to self-government in fulfilment of the obligations imposed by the Charter of the United Nations. I welcome very warmly the new Members that have just been admitted: the Czech Republic, the Republic of Slovakia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Eritrea, the Principality of Monaco, and Andorra. This welcome is not simply a matter of protocol; it involves the recognition of their respective Governments that I am expressing on behalf of the Paraguayan Government. A little more than a month ago I inaugurated my Government with the firm resolve to strengthen our foreign relations with all the members of the international community, within the natural limitations set by domestic financial circumstances and contingencies. I would now venture to offer some thoughts for the consideration of the General Assembly. The new world order broke suddenly upon the world. The bipolar structure of power has now ceased to exist, and the change has taken place peacefully. Paraguay has changed in the same way and with the same rhythm. Today the Paraguayan people is the champion of its own destiny and the will of the people prevails. We live in a condition of respect for human rights, a market economy and State reform. We have successfully and peacefully carried out extraordinary reforms in the political, economic and social fields without external assistance, relying solely on our citizens’ faith and aspiration to live in peace, with justice and freedom. The Government of Paraguay respects freedom and promotes justice; it is striving to widen the opportunities for human development and well-being. Economic activity, and in particular the market economy, cannot exist in an institutional vacuum. On the contrary, a security system must be established that ensures the fiscal integrity of all persons, individual initiative and the inviolability of private property, through a stable monetary system and efficient public services. The priority of the Paraguayan Government is to guarantee this security, this stability and these services, so that those who wish to work and produce can enjoy the fruits of their labour and feel motivated to do their work honestly and efficiently. The Paraguayan people is now aware that it has triumphed over its many vicissitudes. We have heard many promises about the advent of the new man. We have witnessed many tragedies and dashed hopes. Today, we believe that the only path towards the great triumphs of collective well-being is that of democracy and freedom. The men and women of Paraguay wish to live in their own way, respecting the law and prospering in harmony and concord. I would consider my activities of strengthening and consolidating democracy incomplete if in future my compatriots could not continue freely to form political parties and to elect governments without coercion, if they could not live in peace with their families and enjoy the honest fruits of their work, if they could not live fruitful lives and at the end of their days reflect proudly on their successes and achievements. But as we view the Paraguayan future, we must reflect on a situation fraught with dramatic realities. We have overcome a domestic political situation which for three decades had been met with indifference, marginalization and, ultimately, condemnation by the international community. We endured that situation because of the labour the ingenuity and the great sacrifice of the Paraguayan people. Today we must consolidate our victory and institutionalize democracy as the only possible choice. We have run into two main obstacles to the attainment of that objective: an increasing rate of population growth and a lack of resources to finance our development with the rapidity required by the rapid increase in our population and the pressing need to raise the standard of living and the well-being of all Paraguayans. We believe that we must be able to count on the cooperation of the industrialized countries in order to ensure the continued primacy of the values we share with the community of nations. To accelerate our development we call for an extension of the magnificent collaboration of the United Nations system and its many institutions, such as the United Nations Development Programme, which now has a new, dynamic Administrator and in which the developing countries place great hopes; the effective traditional programme of the United Nations Children’s Fund, which champions the rights of children and adolescents; and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities, which plays a very important role in regard to the crucial question of population. We call also on the specialized agencies of the United Nations system - each of which has in its field greatly assisted in our countries’ development plans - to redouble their efforts, increase their effectiveness by means of greater creativity, and lower their expenditures by exercising greater control. This cooperation should go hand in hand with domestic efforts to attract assistance on favourable terms and greater flows of private foreign investment. The financial institutions, especially the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank, should speed up their assistance by reducing their bureaucracies and should provide the fullest possible support to developing countries’ projects and programmes. We recognize the great assistance they have provided in the past, and we urge them to exceed even their past achievements in order to ensure a better future for all our countries. If the developing countries do not receive such cooperation, the consequence will be, on the one hand, a prosperous and democratic world with freedom and an abundance of goods for all and, on the other, a world corroded by ignorance, poverty and the enslavement of the poor. It will be difficult for democracy to survive if poverty persists. Establishing economic progress with equity in Paraguay means strengthening democracy. My greatest desire as Head of State is to establish the democratic system once and for all in my country. In order to achieve that aim, my Government will act very responsibly, ensuring that its administration does not Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 3 engage in irregularities, and it will be very strict in enforcing the law. We wish to have the greatest possible transparency in the whole of the governmental process, in both domestic and international affairs. We believe that the stability of democratic countries lies, among other things, in the integrity of their civil servants, in the independence of the judiciary, in individual and collective security, and in the State’s efficiency in promoting development. That is why my Government will pursue and punish anyone who engages in corruption. In that way we intend to eradicate corruption. We have undertaken to fulfil these purposes in the certainty that the international community will be prepared to support us in so doing. Nationalistic passions have flared up in many parts of the world, challenging borders and jeopardizing international coexistence. Age-old conflicts still seethe, as can be seen from the terrible bloodshed, and havoc in former Yugoslavia. The United Nations has set up more peace-keeping missions in the last three years than it did in its first 45 years of existence. At the same time as we are witnessing these events with distress and sorrow, we are rejoicing in the signing of the statement of principles between the Government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. This valuable contribution to world peace is due to the courage and the clear-sightedness of the leaders on both sides, who have been able to overcome the burden of ancestral prejudice to enter into a new harmonious relationship. We also applaud the participation of countries as mediators in these negotiations. They all deserve the world’s admiration. My Government believes that, in compliance with the San Francisco Charter, the Organization will accept as Members all those States that fulfil the requirements set out in the Charter. We congratulate the United Nations on the tremendous work that is being done in its peace missions. This demonstrates not just that the Organization is alert to the need to find a solution where any event may cause a breach of the peace but also that, in doing so, it tries to realize the hope of peace for suffering peoples, meeting their basic needs and alleviating their difficulties. The peace to which we aspire cannot come from sterile immobility or from armed respite. It cannot be imposed. It must be dynamic, sincere and generous and must be based on the principles of solidarity between nations. Let me refer to a contribution from my country, reflected in our universal feeling of friendship. A few years ago, in a small town called Pinasco, a doctor who was a distinguished member of the community proposed that 30 July be designated as a day dedicated to friendship. This idea spread throughout the Latin American continent and to other regions of the world. For this reason I am pleased to suggest that the United Nations adopt that date as the world day of friendship. Events are giving rise to a higher and higher level of world and regional interdependence. With the Treaty on the Integration of the Common Market in the Southern Cone, known as MERCOSUR, we in the southern cone - Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay - are seeking an improvement in our economies. The purpose of MERCOSUR is to harmonize economies, to reach better and broader understandings with other economic groups through the provision of mutual facilities. We hope that the negotiations that have begun with the European Economic Community, the future North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the AsiaPacific countries will bear fruit. Paraguay gives its fullest support to the creation of this Common Market of the South. We hope fervently that there will be frank and full cooperation in all the negotiations between the four countries involved. All our actions should be really consistent with our aims. It is our sincere desire that we may reach an understanding that is just and fair and of benefit to everyone. While dealing with economic affairs, I should like also to express our desire and hope that full agreement will be reached in the Uruguay Round negotiations. We hope that the markets will open up increasingly. We wish to see trade flowing more freely, without any tariff or other barriers and without subsidies, which undermine the competitiveness of our MERCOSUR products. We fully support the principle of free trade. One cannot hamper trade by protectionism while professing belief in the principle of free trade. I have just visited Bolivia, a sister country with which we have signed joint agreements and I made an offer to its Government that Paraguay would serve as a link for its entry into MERCOSUR. I also requested that they themselves, in their turn, shall serve as a link between MERCOSUR and the Andean Pact. Through the system of MERCOSUR and through the Andean Pact, we have established a fresh and, 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session we hope, promising arrangement. Today - 29 September - we commemorate the battle of Boquerón, a symbol of the valour of both peoples which we hope will be a landmark for the future in our search for cooperation, understanding and peace. This new era represents a challenge in relations between nations. In the process of the globalization of economies, countries must avoid selfishness. They must share their prosperity and technological advances in order to ensure effective progress for all mankind. The European Community, the NAFTA countries and the Asia-Pacific countries should be a dynamic force in economic relations, and should not set new limitations on world trade. International coexistence requires that we seek to establish mutually supportive understandings and agreements that will strengthen the collective economy and, thus, every country’s individual economy. North America provides a very promising example of this. Mexico, Canada and the United States are proposing a zone of free trade between countries that have different cultures, histories, languages and lifestyles. In spite of these differences they have taken a praiseworthy decision to make their economies complementary. NAFTA represents an undertaking to ensure shared prosperity through collective arrangements. As we enter a new century, these three countries realize that economic prosperity depends, as never before, on the opening of new markets across the world and increasing the volume of world trade. We hope that when this arrangement is established it will be of great benefit to the whole of Latin America and the Caribbean. Economic development should not run counter to the preservation and protection of the environment. Both concepts are valid for everyone, irrespective of differences in countries’ levels of economic development. Environmental degradation will continue if we keep on applying such ambiguous criteria as 'environmental conditionality'. The great meeting on the environment held at Rio in 1992, after very lengthy deliberations, points us in the direction of 'sustainable development' - development that can be made compatible with protection of the environment. We need to fulfil the agreement that was reached at Rio. We must not go back on the commitments undertaken there. Neither should there be double standards - different standards for industrialized and for developing countries. The latter need the cooperation that was promised at that memorable international meeting. With regard to social problems on a world scale, drug trafficking threatens the economic and political stability of some countries. In this area too the United Nations should take the lead in order to combat the scourge of drugs, with all its disastrous consequences for young people and the money laundering and terrorism that are its ramifications. Paraguay is totally committed to the battle against drug trafficking, the money laundering resulting from it and all the other crimes that are associated with drugs. This struggle requires total international cooperation if drug trafficking is to be eliminated. It has to be recognized that responsibility for this undertaking must be shared by producers, consumers and also intermediaries. The United Nations is preparing for a conference in 1995, which will be a special landmark in the whole of international coexistence. I refer to the World Summit for Social Development that will be held in Copenhagen. The Government of Paraguay applauds this initiative and offers its fullest cooperation at the preparation stage and in the studies. We are also willing to take an active part in the event itself. Initiatives of this kind and the 1994 Cairo Conference on Population and Development deserve our fullest support. Although, as I have said, the issues to which I referred earlier are of great significance to my country, I wish to make the point that the raising of educational standards in my country is my obsession. For this reason, we are trying to improve human resources so that we may make use of the new technology which we sorely lack. Education is not simply a commitment on the part of the State; it is a challenge shared by all the productive sectors of the country. Technology may provide fresh economic opportunities resulting in new sources of labour. That is why Paraguay believes that the Bolívar Programme is a good precedent for what can be done between countries determined to face the future by sharing technologies, innovations and industrial competitiveness. We also hope that the industrialized countries, or those that have achieved a high technological level, will show the necessary will to promote the presence of their companies in our countries, so that their capital and new technology can accelerate progress in our developing countries. Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 5 We shall always stress the need for a more balanced treatment of the social and economic issues on the international agenda. Attention must not be given to socalled new global issues at the expense of the problems of development, the struggle against poverty, the defeat of ignorance, and the promotion of international cooperation. After 48 years, men and institutions are able to concede their mistakes and can strengthen their convictions in order better to achieve their purposes. The United Nations has demonstrated such abilities by renewing and adapting itself to the demands of our changing world. Paraguay is in favour of this and supports the necessary reforms to adapt the Charter to the challenges of a new age. In this way will the United Nations be able to live up to the high ideals and hopes with which it was created. To that purpose, it is vital that it redistribute functions and responsibilities among its bodies, increase coordination and streamline its processes. The United Nations should be the forum for the genuine expression of the aspirations of all Member States and the primary instrument for genuine and peaceful understanding among all peoples of the world. We must confront and settle the financial crisis which weighs so heavily on our Organization. It is not logical to assign it tasks without providing adequate means to carry them out. Let us avoid being moved by political motives to transform that inadequacy into administrative negligence and financial paralysis. Let us do the opposite - let our Organization be the great forum of the international scene. Let it be renewed, better, more effective and more equitable. With timely intervention, the United Nations has brought lengthy conflicts to an end and achieved their settlement. This praiseworthy work must be recognized and if, in some cases, the success has not been great, that has been due to struggles between different power centres. But today we are all equally ready to work to achieve more effective disarmament and to establish new international standards for the use of nuclear energy to benefit mankind and not to destroy it. We have made considerable progress but there remains a long way to go before we have full and complete security in this area. Paraguay will support a disarmament policy as a commitment to the international community. We continue to believe and have always maintained that the United Nations should assume leadership, with the support of all Member States, in carrying out the necessary changes to establish the rule of peace and the human development to which we all aspire. My country wishes to underscore the outstanding work of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and to express its appreciation for his activities aimed at making the United Nations and its entire system more efficient. Paraguay has faith in these positive solutions. We pledge to uphold the legal principles of international coexistence and appeal to the loftiest sentiments and the highest sense of responsibility of all leaders of the world. My country believes that this can be achieved and urges that it be made a reality. No more fratricidal wars. Let us all unite in the war against underdevelopment, against unemployment, and against ignorance, which is the worst of all slaveries. Reiterating our commitment to full support for the United Nations, we also reaffirm our resolute cooperation with the international community and express our deepest desire for peace, prosperity and development for all the peoples of the world. I should like to conclude with a message in my native language, Guaraní: 'Ja johayjhú, ñaño pytyvó, icatú haguaicha ñasé ténondé oñondivepá. Aguiyéveté.' This means: 'Let us love one another, brothers. Let us help each other to move forward together'. I should like, before making my statement, to express the deepest condolences of the people and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to the people and the Government of India on the catastrophic earthquake that has caused untold human suffering. Allow me, at the outset, to express sincere congratulations to Ambassador Insanally of Guyana on his well-deserved election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. His personal qualifications and diplomatic experience are valuable assets, which must be utilized fully and seriously to further the purposes of the United Nations. I wish to assure the President of my delegation’s unreserved cooperation in this common endeavour. I should like also to welcome the new Members of the Organization and to express the hope that their participation in this body will enhance its universality and strengthen the spirit of universality and international cooperation. As international relations are currently undergoing tumultuous and decisive change, the presence here of representatives of the overwhelming majority of nation States provides the General Assembly at this session with a unique opportunity 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session to shape a better future and an international environment more in keeping with the purposes and principles of the United Nations. Of course, such a rare opportunity is accompanied by a grave and historic responsibility for every one of us. We must acquire a full understanding of the transitional nature of international relations in the world of today, and, relying on our vast collective resources and potential, we must prevent the resurgence and prevalence of the crises, wars, injustices and human misery that have marred the first 50 years of the United Nations. If, on the eve of its fiftieth anniversary, we are to ensure a more dynamic and successful future for the Organization, we must undertake a sober reassessment of our record and identify our achievements as well as our shortcomings and obstacles. Regrettably, five years after the end of the cold war, some of that era’s most negative characteristics are still evident in international relations. Expansionism and the urge to dominate, disregard for the material, cultural and moral values of nations, the suppression of democracy and of democratic institutions, and the triumph of the short-sighted interests of the dominant few over the interests and aspirations of the majority and over human rights and the United Nations Charter and international law continue to impede international affairs and, most regrettably, international organizations. This has presented the United Nations with a historic challenge: to maintain and enhance its perceived role and its credibility following the Persian Gulf crisis. Moreover, despite the cessation of military rivalry between major Powers, many complex and grave threats - including those arising from ethnic tensions, the lack of development, poverty, economic and social inequality and degradation of the environment - have taken humanity to the edge of the abyss. During the era of the cold war, relations between East and West - and, consequently, international relations in general - were founded on misconceptions, mutual mistrust and a total lack of confidence. These factors played a central role in the creation of an unsafe world, in which the United Nations was deprived of any opportunity to realize its vast potential for the maintenance of international peace and security. Therefore, our first and foremost obligation is to identify and root out the causes of crisis and mistrust inherited from the cold war and to take appropriate steps to create the conditions necessary to the promotion of understanding and the fostering of mutual confidence at the international level. This should begin with an all-out campaign of steps to restore world confidence in the United Nations. A balanced, objective and far-sighted approach to various international political, economic and cultural crises and challenges, based on justice and on the common principles and objectives enshrined in the Charter, is the most fundamental requirement for the restoration and enhancement of the credibility of the Organization, and can also play a significant role in securing long-term stability and trust. In this context, the identification, definition and deepening of shared values and common interests will facilitate understanding and ensure international cooperation. Should we fail in adopting such an approach, countries will be forced into a security dilemma created by unacceptable survival options: namely, either to strengthen their military capabilities and thus precipitate an arms race or to succumb to expansionist Powers and their whims. In either case, the world will plunge into a new era of insecurity and turbulence. The Security Council plays a determining role in either heightening such a dilemma or reversing it. In other words, the Council may either exacerbate tension and distrust or encourage understanding, confidence and respect for the rule of law in inter-State relations. If the behaviour of the Security Council signifies an unequivocal commitment to uphold justice and the principles of the Charter, to combat aggression and to come to the help of the victims, and if the Council exhibits the political will to cease the application of double standards, then we can hope that potential aggressors will be deterred, international instability and insecurity will be curtailed, and the immense human cost of wars and hostilities will be avoided. On the other hand, when, owing to political calculations, some aggressions and international crimes meet with the indifference and acquiescence of the Security Council; when the criteria for resort to forcible measures envisaged in Chapter VII of the Charter are the short-lived political interests of Powers; when aggressions and attempts to annihilate an entire nation do not receive a forcible, resolute response, while in other cases there is a rush to resort to force before attempting to understand and deal with the root causes of a conflict; and, finally, when some decisions of the Council are enforced with vigour and determination while others remain dead letters for years; then no one can expect potential aggressors or possible Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993 21 victims of foreign expansionism to form a reliable expectation with regard to the reaction of the Security Council. Thus, having removed the credibility of the deterrence factor, we should expect nothing but the persistence of aggression and expansionism and the exacerbation of the ensuing horrific human tragedies, inevitably leading to undesirable implications for the authority and credibility of the United Nations. The failure of the Security Council squarely to face the Palestinian crisis and the constant aggressions against the Palestinian people, Lebanon and Syria, not to mention its intentional failure to enforce its own resolutions, are a sad illustration of the prevailing preference of political interests over peace, security, international law and equity. Relying on the support of a number of powerful States, Israel has with impunity totally disregarded pertinent Security Council resolutions, unabatedly pursued a militaristic policy, persisted in aggression and expansionism and avoided any commitment to international nuclear non-proliferation regimes. It is the only possessor of nuclear weapons in the region. It has systematically and grossly violated the most elemental human rights of the Palestinian people and employed terrorism in all its forms as an official policy. These are facts, borne out by history and solidly based on objective international observations and internationally documented evidence. Israel’s well orchestrated misinformation campaign against others and its attempts to fan the flames of discord, distrust and division among States in the region cannot conceal these facts, nor should they legitimize the unrealistic, short-sighted and imposed plans as solutions or mechanisms to return peace and stability to the region. In our view, peace, stability and mutual confidence can return to the Middle East and to the Holy Land of Peace and Revelation only through a serious and even-handed treatment of these realities and the full restoration of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people. Based on these objective historical realities, the recent accord, notwithstanding the international fanfare, does not present a realistic solution to the root causes of the conflict, does not promise restoration of Palestinian rights, and thus cannot establish justice, which is the only foundation of a lasting peace. And no one can cede Palestine on behalf of the Palestinian people or Al-Quds Al-Sharif on behalf of the Muslims. We consider the signing of this accord as a conspiracy against Islam and Palestine, and we disagree with it. The unfolding human tragedy in Bosnia and Herzegovina is yet further disturbing evidence of the consequences of the Security Council’s acquiescence in aggression, and failure resolutely to tackle the causes of the abhorrent attempt to annihilate an entire nation. In the face of aggression, genocide, rape and indiscriminate murder in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Security Council, ignoring repeated calls by the General Assembly, has failed to fulfil its international responsibility and has even deprived the victims of the means to defend themselves. The Council, prevented from action by the illusions and imaginary interests of a number of its permanent members, can certainly not justify this approach by hiding behind the convenient excuse of the existence of civil war. That excuse is unacceptable, at the least because of the fact that the very same Council, in a much more complex situation of civil strife in Somalia - where the identification of victim and culprit is far more difficult - has not only acted but has practically given total management of a United Nations operation to a single country, which, motivated by its own perceived interests, has undertaken massive operations whose main victims are, ironically, the same innocent and deprived people for whose help and protection the operation ostensibly started. Now that, owing to the lack of serious action by the international community, the Bosnian Muslims have been forced into unbalanced negotiations under military and, unfortunately, diplomatic duress, it is imperative for the Assembly and the Security Council to take appropriate measures to guarantee the viability of the Government and Muslim people of Bosnia. The lifting of the arms embargo against the Bosnian Government and strengthening the defensive capabilities of the Bosnian Muslims are, in our view, the most effective guarantees for the durability of any peaceful settlement and the prevention of future aggressions. Furthermore, reiteration of the principles which should underlie any peaceful settlement in Bosnia and Herzegovina is necessary to induce or, if necessary, to compel the aggressors to participate seriously in negotiations for a lasting and acceptable solution. They include, most particularly, the establishment of a durable cease-fire; the lifting of the siege of cities; unhindered access to humanitarian assistance; the rejection of acquisition of territory by force or ethnic cleansing; the necessity for the evacuation of territories thus occupied; the recognition of the right of the people and Government of Bosnia to seek and receive compensation and reparations; the honourable and safe repatriation of refugees; and individual responsibility for war crimes. In the light of these recent unfortunate experiences and in order to enhance the credibility of the United Nations, particularly in the crucial area of peace and security, it is imperative to review and reconsider the behaviour, 22 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session operational framework and rules of procedure of the Security Council. There should be no room for undemocratic practices, hidden agendas, a lack of transparency or indifference to the views of the international community, as reflected in the General Assembly. It should never be forgotten that it is the entire membership - represented only in the General Assembly - which, to quote Article 24 of the Charter, 'In order to ensure prompt and effective action by the United Nations ... [has conferred] on the Security Council primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security'. The Council acts, in the words of Article 24, on 'behalf' of the membership. Its powers emanate from that role and not from any inherent right. Therefore, it is accountable to the entire membership gathered in the General Assembly. In today’s international climate, the primacy of political interests and their tendency to overshadow the interests of the public has generated grave concerns about the Council’s ability to take 'prompt and effective action'. The General Assembly must therefore fully and deliberately exercise its prerogatives in this regard as the highest organ of the United Nations. Confidence-building measures by the United Nations should not be limited only to the realm of international peace and security. Indeed, a multi-dimensional approach is necessary to root out the seeds of tension and mistrust sown in the previous era. In this context, it is most important to take positive, comprehensive and objective steps for international promotion and protection of human rights and democratic institutions, for controlling and reducing armaments, for combating the drug menace, for protecting the environment, for eradicating poverty, for improving the deteriorating economic plight of the South and for engendering sustainable development. Success in these areas would not only enhance the credibility and authority of the Organization, but would also remove the most tangible causes of mistrust and tension in the world at large. In spite of significant achievements in the international campaign to promote respect for the exalted worth of the human person and the realization and attainment of the moral and material rights of that masterpiece of creation, formidable challenges continue to persist in the task of ensuring respect for the most basic rights of millions of human beings: the right to life and the right to a minimum of moral and material welfare. The World Conference on Human Rights, recently held in Vienna, provided a valuable opportunity for the world community to take stock of its achievements and shortcomings in the quarter of a century following the first such conference, held in Tehran in 1968. The Conference addressed vital issues, such as respect for the moral, cultural and religious values of all nations, the indivisibility of all human rights, and the rejection of selectivity, application of double-standards and the political manipulation of human rights. While not ideal, the work of the Conference can play a constructive role in enhancing international protection and promotion of human rights and the progressive development of human-rights norms. In the logic of the divine religions - and particularly Islam, which pioneered the campaign to respect and value the exalted worth of the human being as God’s Vice-Regent on Earth - human rights are vested in the human nature bestowed upon mankind by the Almighty Creator. Hence, not only are they universal and independent of geographical and temporal boundaries, but they do not have their origin in conventions. Therefore, their definition, codification, implementation and international promotion and protection cannot be considered the private domain of the few who enjoy temporary political and military superiority. That is particularly true as those States do not have a shining record in internal or external protection of human rights and do not offer in their own social experience a suitable moral and material environment for the welfare of human beings. If violence and crime, which deprive the most vulnerable segments of society of their right to life and dignity - I refer here to the drug menace, prostitution, pornography, rape, violence and other forms of abuse of women, the disintegration of families, profanity and vulgarity as well as debasing of social relations - are at least the byproducts of the human-rights model advocated, or indeed imposed, by that group, then others certainly have the right to examine the prototype critically before importing it. The universality of human rights is the very opposite of arrogating to oneself the task of setting the standards for human rights and of judging their observance by others, particularly since even these standards are not promoted universally and across the board, but are, rather, resorted to when and if the exigencies of foreign policy and economic and security interests require it. Human rights and the inherent worth of the human person are too important to be subjugated to short-lived political considerations and interests or used as a lever for political or cultural pressure or for maintaining the inequity between the South and the North. That can only erode their credibility and universal acceptance. We hope that political will and responsible behaviour by all countries, specifically the countries of the North, will preclude a selective approach Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993 23 to the Vienna Declaration and enable the international community to employ its collective potential to reach common understanding in this area and initiate a truly universal campaign for the promotion and protection of human rights. Another vestige of the cold-war era, which constitutes an elemental cause of international mistrust and a general lack of confidence, is the arms race and the development, production, build-up and use of weapons, particularly weapons of mass destruction - all in the misplaced hope of enhancing national security. The conclusion of the comprehensive Convention on chemical weapons, notwithstanding its shortcomings, was a historic achievement. Iran, the most recent victim of the large-scale use of chemical weapons, actively contributed in the drafting process, was among the sponsors of the relevant resolution in the General Assembly, and was among the first signatories of this important international instrument. The effectiveness and universality of the Convention will be a function of the way in which it is implemented and of the degree of commitment of its signatories. Naturally, with the conclusion of this Convention, the existing informal regimes which impose discriminatory barriers on free trade in the chemical industry have lost their raison d’être and must be dismantled. The lingering of these regimes not only violates the spirit of the Convention and the understandings reached during the process of its finalization, but also nullifies the positive incentives for acceding to that instrument. The same applies to unilateral and illegal measures such as the disruption of the free navigation of the Chinese vessel Yinhe, in the Persian Gulf, on the pretext - subsequently proven false - that it was carrying prohibited chemical substances. Such actions can only lead to the erosion of the authority and credibility of the Convention. International efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons face a similar danger. Politically motivated and unfounded accusations against signatory States which are committed to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons simply undermine that important instrument and lead to international mistrust and the escalation of the arms race. Before any decision on the extension of the NonProliferation Treaty in 1995, the process leading to the Review Conference should be fully utilized in order seriously to assess the Treaty’s record during the past two decades in the light of its overall objective of totally eliminating nuclear weapons. The shortcomings and obstacles hindering progress towards this goal should be identified and dealt with during the Conference in 1995. Among the most essential and useful strategies for attaining global disarmament and strengthening the non-proliferation regime is the creation of zones free from nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in various parts of the world. In the light of the constant support of the United Nations for the establishment of a nuclear-free zone in the Middle East, an idea initiated by Iran in 1974, it is necessary to take constructive and practical measures towards establishing such a zone. The institutionalization of regional confidence-building measures, including placement of all facilities and installations under the safeguards mechanism of the International Atomic Energy Agency and accession by all regional States to all international disarmament instruments, particularly the Non-Proliferation Treaty and the chemical weapons Convention, constitute the most important elements for the establishment of a zone free from nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. Furthermore, the reckless build-up of conventional weapons has not only devoured much needed resources, but also reinforced the atmosphere of mistrust and anxiety. Different areas have, as a result, become fair ground for political, economic and commercial exploitation by countries and companies that manufacture weapons. The decision of the General Assembly to establish a Register of Conventional Arms Transfers constitutes a positive first step which should be strengthened and further refined. However, it is evident that transparency in armaments cannot by itself control horizontal or vertical proliferation of conventional weapons in the world. Therefore, what is really necessary, globally and particularly in the Middle East, is serious and genuine international cooperation for the comprehensive, non-selective, non-discriminatory, balanced and effective reduction of conventional arms. This may be realized, inter alia, through the reduction of military budgets, of weapons procurement and of the presence of foreign forces in different regions. The Islamic Republic of Iran has been cited by impartial international sources as the country with the lowest defence budget in the region and the fewest weapons purchases. As such, Iran is naturally prepared to engage constructively in any serious, practical and non-sensational collective effort in this regard. Above and beyond all these steps, it is most essential to generate the necessary political will to formulate and direct national policies geared towards fostering an international atmosphere of mutual confidence. This can be 24 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session realized only by basing national policies on a commitment to the rules and principles of international law, particularly respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of others; the inviolability of internationally recognized boundaries; rejection of the threat or use of force for the settlement of disputes; non-interference in the internal affairs of others; and refraining from advancing unfounded claims against the territory of other States. The positive impact of such an approach on promoting good-neighbourly relations, encouraging regional cooperation and the enhancement of security is self-evident. Consistent with its national and strategic interests, and cognizant of its heavy responsibility in this region, the Islamic Republic of Iran has historically acted as the force for stability in the Persian Gulf region. Domestically, the greatest part of the national budget has been allocated to economic, social and cultural development projects and reconstruction. The policy of converting military industries to civilian use and employing the armed forces in the reconstruction sector has been vigorously pursued. Thus, despite serious obstacles, fundamental progress has been achieved in across-the-board development of the country and reconstruction of war-damaged property. Similarly, in order to help foster regional confidence and trust, and in spite of sensitive regional conditions and the bitter experience of a recent foreign aggression against the Islamic Republic of Iran, we have allocated a mere 1.5 per cent of the national budget for defence and have had the lowest military purchases in the entire region. Externally, Iran has formulated its policy with a view to encouraging and promoting security and stability in the region, as well as expanding political, economic, cultural and scientific cooperation between the countries of the area. The position of principle adopted by Iran in the course of the Persian Gulf crisis; our constant effort to prevent the spread of violence in the region; our even-handed and consistent emphasis on international understanding and compromise in Afghanistan and Tajikistan; our attempts to secure a peaceful settlement in the Caucasus; our being host to the highest number of refugees in the world; and the humanitarian assistance extended by Iran to victims of crisis in the region; these are all consistent with our policy of strengthening stability, preventing tension and mitigating the human suffering of the crisis victims in the region. We firmly believe that the pursuit of these efforts, along with consultations and cooperation between concerned States and international organizations, is required to contain and settle these conflicts and alleviate their ensuing human tragedies. To ensure peace and stability in Central Asia and the Transcaucasus, it is necessary to encourage trade with the countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, create the right conditions for economic development in each country, reinforce regional commonalities and complementarities, and improve the opportunities for these countries to participate more profitably in world trade. The efforts of the members of the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO) to achieve these goals and to overcome obstacles to regional development by consolidating mutual cooperation and fostering cooperation with other countries and international organizations will contribute positively to regional and international peace and security. Formal collaboration between ECO and the United Nations, which requires approval by the Assembly of ECO’s request for observer status, will also expedite the realization of these objectives. The vital importance of the Persian Gulf for the security and economic development of the Islamic Republic of Iran is self-evident. Iran, with the longest coast on the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman, has historically equated its own national security and economic prosperity with security, stability, tranquillity and the free flow of oil and international commerce in the Persian Gulf area. It has thereby acted as a force for stability. In this context, we have also proposed the establishment of regional security and cooperation arrangements in the Persian Gulf, whose outline I presented to the forty-fifth session of the General Assembly. The experience of two devastating wars in the Persian Gulf region within one decade clearly illustrates the fact that baseless territorial claims lead to the erosion of understanding and confidence, only furthering the interest of foreign Powers. Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993 25 The common religious, cultural, historical and commercial heritage of the countries of this region provide a good and solid foundation on which initiatives to reinforce mutual trust and develop multilateral cooperation between these States can be founded. The Islamic Republic of Iran has taken the initiative by manifesting its political will and adopting practical measures in order to strengthen political ties and further develop and consolidate commercial, economic and cultural cooperation with our neighbours in the Persian Gulf. In turn, we would welcome and respond accordingly to any positive step from our neighbours. Let me conclude by reiterating that recent international developments and emerging challenges have placed the United Nations at a critical and historic crossroads. Success, in our view, will depend on a sober understanding of the causes of tension and mistrust during the cold war, followed by resolute steps to root them out. Joint effort is also needed to develop and put into motion multidimensional confidence-building measures and techniques, consolidate and expand international cooperation, and bring about conditions conducive to the attainment of common aspirations of humanity, particularly justice, security and balanced development. The Islamic Republic of Iran is fully prepared to intensify its efforts in cooperation with other States in this Assembly and in other bilateral and multilateral environments for the attainment of these objectives. As I stand today at this rostrum, a flood of memories rushes to my mind. I recall appearing as Premier before the United Nations Committee on decolonization in 1961 to plead the case of my country’s independence. Like so many other colonies after the Second World War, Guyana was anxious to secure its freedom and exercise its right to self-determination. The road, however, was far from easy. Along the way there were many stumbling-blocks and casualties. It was not until 1966, long after most subject peoples had been set free, that we became independent and took our place in the family of nations. The world today is radically different from what it was then. The total membership of the United Nations has grown significantly. The cold war, which had bedevilled international relations since 1947, has ended, with a promise of a new and more democratic world order. With the collapse of the Soviet Union, one of the two super-Powers, there are severe difficulties for the new structures which have been established. Nevertheless, hope is alive for the construction of an era of peace, based on respect for all peoples and the promotion of their general welfare. It is an exciting moment in world history, and for the United Nations there is a defining role. Guyana has been honoured by the unanimous election of its representative to the presidency of this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. This session will undoubtedly be a challenging one. I wish to thank the entire membership for its vote of confidence in our ability to undertake this lofty responsibility. It is, after all, an acknowledgement that all States, irrespective of their size, can play an important role in the Organization’s work. I am especially grateful to the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) group and the wider Latin American and Caribbean Group for their full endorsement of our candidacy. I must also pay a tribute to His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev for his capable direction of the forty-seventh session and to our distinguished Secretary-General for his efforts to promote the continuing success of our world Organization. Success in these volatile times is often tempered. For, notwithstanding its important accomplishments, the United Nations cannot be said to have fulfilled the highest aspirations of its creators. The scourge of war is still rampant in many places. Colonialism is certainly not extinct, and today it threatens to survive in different forms. Many aspects of colonialism are evident in the ever-widening gap between the developed and the developing countries and the dependence of impoverished millions on the largesse of a few. This prevailing economic and social disparity provides a breeding ground for hunger, disease and poverty and ultimately constitutes a threat to international peace and security. As the focal point of multilateralism, the United Nations must continue to explore the full limits of international cooperation in order to eliminate, or at least alleviate, the problems of the disadvantaged. I should like to think that there is now agreement that the grave situation requires collective action. Whatever its limitations, it is still the best forum available to States for diplomacy, dialogue and negotiation, and thus for the avoidance of conflict. We should seek, therefore, to enhance its ability to address our common goals. As a small developing State, Guyana is fully committed to the ethos of multilateral cooperation which is embodied in the United Nations. We have come here to renew publicly our faith in the Organization and to urge all Members to pledge to deepen and strengthen multilateralism as a foundation for inter-State relations. Experience has shown that no nation, however powerful, can exist in isolation. Its borders are not impervious to encroachment by universal ills. Ultimately, it must come together with the rest of the world to find common solutions to common problems. AIDS, narcotic drugs, poverty and pollution are striking examples of the pandemic which affects us all. Control of these scourges requires concerted action by the United Nations as a whole. Added to these are natural disasters, such as the recent earthquake in India. Our deepest sympathy goes out to the Indian people and Government. We note with some disappointment that international conflicts continue to undermine the capacity of the Organization to promote the cooperation which is deemed essential for reaching solutions to current global problems. The real value of the United Nations in this period will depend on its collective ability to respond effectively to this wave of international conflicts, and to find acceptable means of peace-keeping and peacemaking which will not be a burden on its membership. Such a development will inspire confidence among member nations to refer issues to the United Nations body, and to restore their reliance on the Organization’s ability to resolve disputes before they resort to the battlefield. Our first effort at constructing a framework for international peace and security through the League of Nations ended in failure. The reason can be found in the inherent weakness of the League, in the resultant inability to contain rampant nationalism, particularism and insularity and in the lack of respect for its fundamental principles. The United Nations is a second experiment, prompted by the disasters consequent upon the failure of the League. At San Francisco we vowed to spare succeeding generations from the scourge of war. We have before us today another opportunity to secure an era of real peace and stability, to deploy fully the resources of the Organization in the service of humanity, and to reach for a broad-based, sustainable development and some measure of prosperity and fulfilment for the peoples of this planet. In our efforts to bolster international peace and security, the report, 'An Agenda for Peace', which was prepared by the Secretary-General in response to the Security Council’s request, sets out a number of proposals which merit serious consideration. While recognizing the need to provide the Council with enforcement capacity under Chapter VII of the Charter, we place special importance on preventive diplomacy, which would obviate recourse to physical intervention. As the experience of some recent peacemaking and peace-keeping operations has shown, these measures are fraught with uncertain political consequences. Moreover, they have proved extremely costly, particularly to small States such as ours which can ill afford such expenditures. So diverse are the origins of conflict that each situation must be examined in depth to determine the most appropriate means of peaceful solution. In some cases the dispute may have legal implications and may therefore be best handled by a suitable judicial body. More often than not, however, the roots of conflict are embedded in a history of complicated political, economic and social factors. In such instances the ground must be carefully prepared for the cultivation of peace and stability. Fortunately, the advantages of the diplomatic approach are not lost in the United Nations, which increasingly is using the good offices of the Secretary-General and his representatives to induce solutions to long-standing conflicts. We believe that these examples reaffirm the virtue of dialogue and negotiation. However, although promising for the future, other situations remain tenuous and require constant monitoring. Somalia and Sudan must be carefully nurtured back to normalcy. In Europe, Bosnia and Herzegovina stands out as an horrific example of man’s inhumanity to man, and compels us to search for a quick end to the wanton killing of innocent thousands. Indeed, the Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 3 United Nations must hasten to devise new strategies to deal with these persistent convulsions in the global body politic. The Middle East has been embroiled in conflict for much too long. With the recent signing of the declaration of principles for Palestinian self-rule, the road ahead is encouraging. Peace and stability throughout the region now seem to be within our grasp. We hope also that the territorial problems between Iraq and Kuwait can be amicably settled. As far as South Africa is concerned, the announcement of a date for elections, coupled with supporting structures, gives rise to the hope that majority rule is not far off and we may in the near future welcome that country back into the fold of the international community. We urge the peoples of South Africa to eschew further violence and to come together for their common good. I wish to record with satisfaction the view that a return to democratic traditions and respect for good governance and human rights has helped to further promote peace. Guyana will support any confidence-building mechanism which favours dialogue over confrontation as the means of choice for the pacific settlement of disputes. Because of the inherent correlation between peace and development it behoves each member of the international community to continue the search, where needed, for creative ways to settle disputes that could otherwise imperil not only international peace and security but also national development. In this hemisphere, of which Guyana forms part, we are concerned that, despite the end of the cold war, Cuba remains outside the inter-American family. We truly believe that this is a serious anomaly in the context of the Organization’s efforts to build a new world order based on mutual understanding and respect among all States in a united international community. We appeal to the United States and Cuba to demonstrate their good will and seek urgently to reconcile their long-standing differences. The Caribbean Community (CARICOM), which has a vested interest in the early rapprochement between these two major partners, stands ready to play a role in this process. We are particularly pleased that the Central American region, which for far too long has been entrapped by anachronistic economic and social structures, has emerged from a vicious cycle of internecine violence. CARICOM welcomes the opportunity which this development offers for closer cooperation between two neighbouring regions. We are equally pleased that, after being held hostage by a military dictatorship unwilling to heed the popular will, Haiti is once again free to pursue a democratic path. We offer to President Aristide and his government our ready cooperation in the urgent task of reconstruction for social progress. Guyana has itself only recently emerged from a difficult electoral process that, under international vigilance, proved to be free and fair. We are particularly grateful for the role the United Nations played in ensuring that the democratic will of our people was fully respected. After all, the right to choose one’s government is a fundamental human right, which should never be denied. We commend the United Nations for providing electoral assistance at the request of those who seek it, and with due respect for the principle of national sovereignty. Elections alone, however, do not guarantee the preservation of democracy: they must be accompanied by the establishment of machinery that protects every individual in our societies. I am pleased to report that one of the first steps my Government took upon assuming office was to accede to the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Human Rights Covenants. We followed that with the establishment of an Inter-Agency High-Level Committee on Human Rights, whose function it is to ensure that Guyana complies with its reporting responsibilities under the Human Rights Conventions. It is not enough, however, to satisfy the civic and political rights of our citizens: their fundamental economic and social entitlements to food, clothing, shelter and so on must also be provided. Human rights are indivisible, and to prefer one above the other is to deny their essential interrelatedness. The Vienna Conference appears to have recognized this fact and to have confirmed the need for a holistic approach. My own Government is dedicated to the proposition that human development must be comprehensive if our society’s welfare is to be secured. Our stated policy, therefore, is to create an environment in which democracy will work to fulfil our people’s spiritual and material needs. To implement our development programme, however, we shall require the cooperation of the international community to supplement our own limited resources. As I observed earlier this year at a Conference entitled 'Poverty in Guyana - Finding Solutions', we are in a situation of crisis. For, while we have recently begun to experience high growth rates, the economy continues to be weak: unemployment is high; human and financial resources are scarce; and basic infrastructure has deteriorated, leaving the social sectors vulnerable to all the ills of poverty. We have been somewhat successful in raising production and productivity levels, but are seriously limited by a heavy debt burden. Some 90 cents of each dollar earned now go 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session towards the repayment of the national debt. And the proportion of our external commercial earnings for payment of our foreign debt is nearly three times the average of the 47 least developed countries - an unbearably heavy burden. Even though we attempt to manage expenditure judiciously, through good governance - efficient management, a clean and lean administration and fullest respect for human rights - we cannot perform miracles. At the end of the day, we must look for assistance to buttress our domestic efforts and to preserve our tender democracy. With nearly 80 per cent of our people below the poverty line, we shall succeed in consolidating democracy only through economic development with social justice. At the present time, however, the prospects for such support appear rather bleak. There has been a noticeable contraction in development aid as the economies of some donor countries experience difficulties. Their own electorates appear increasingly concerned with domestic problems, such as unemployment and falling living standards. Whatever limited resources are available are allocated by the developed nations largely on the basis of strategic concerns. The international agenda is therefore being set more and more at the sacrifice of the developing world. There is consequently an urgent need to reorder our priorities and to place development at the top of our agenda. At best, however, development aid is no more than a palliative. Significant economic and social progress will come to the developing countries only when inequitable and unjust economic and trade practices in the global system are removed. As the 1992 human development report pointed out, we are denied some $500 billion in market opportunities annually, 10 times what we receive as foreign assistance, primarily because of protectionist policies still being pursued by the developed countries. We call, therefore, on those countries to open up their markets to our goods at prices that compensate us fairly for our labour and production. In this context, we urge the industrial nations to expedite the conclusion of trade negotiations, taking fully into account the interests of our small, developing economies. We would also wish and ask that the formation of large regional economic groupings - the megablocs as they are called - guard against the further marginalization of our economies and our countries. Additionally, a definite solution must be found, during the current decade, to the third world’s crushing external debt problem. In Latin America and the Caribbean, with 181 million out of 441 million people living below the poverty line, in the mire of destitution, how can human development take place when, despite onerous debt payments, the stock of debt continues to grow? A prospective Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC) study for the region over the 1985-1995 period shows a serious aggravation in terms of poverty, unemployment and foreign debt during the decade. Between 1981 and 1990, the region’s foreign debt payments were $503 billion, of which $313 billion were interest payments. However, in the same period, the region’s consolidated foreign debt increased from $297 billion in 1981 to $428 billion in 1991. Little wonder that the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) publication entitled 'Children of the Americas' commented that this mechanism, whereby the more you pay the more you owe, is perverse and must be stopped. Debt relief in the form of debt cancellation, grants, soft loans and rescheduling is urgent if the developing countries are to eradicate poverty, protect the environment and play a meaningful role in expanding world trade and ending stagnation and recession in the industrially developed countries. Debt relief must be seen as an investment not only in the development of poor countries but also in the security of the rich nations. Recognizing the link that exists between poverty, trade, population, development and the environment, we must hasten to implement the Rio programme of action outlined in Agenda 21. The developing countries urgently require the resources - both financial and technological - necessary to fulfil their obligations under that compact. As proof of its commitment to protect the environment, Guyana has set aside nearly 1 million acres of its tropical forests for research, management and development of our rich biodiversity. With the welcome of entities such as the Commonwealth Secretariat, the United Nations Development Programme and the Global Environment Facility, the Iwokrama project, as it is now known, has been fully launched. At the commissioning ceremony held on World Environment Day this year, I dedicated the enterprise to our indigenous peoples, who are not only the principal inhabitants but also the custodians of our forests. It is fitting, especially in this, the International Year of the World’s Indigenous People, that full recognition be given to the important role they play in harmonizing man’s relationship with the Earth on which he lives. We also urge full support for the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, scheduled to commence in Barbados in April 1994. We trust that there will be adequate preparation and the widest participation in that Conference. Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 5 In a spirit of genuine cooperation, therefore, let us proceed to address the proposed agenda for development, which we have accepted as a natural concomitant to 'An Agenda for Peace'. Indeed, peace cannot prevail in the absence of development. Our attempts at peacemaking and conflict resolution in general will not succeed if inequitable and unjust economic and social conditions are allowed to persist. Of late, many of the organs and agencies engaged in the development process have had cause to lament the growing diminution of resources available to them, a problem now aggravated by continuing diversion of funding to a multiplicity of peace-keeping operations. Obviously, one recognizes the importance of maintaining global peace. However, it should not be at the cost of a disproportionate sacrifice of development, which leads to peace-keeping becoming an end in itself instead of a means of encouraging economic and social welfare. The United Nations, whose universal membership encompasses both developed and developing nations, remains the ideal forum for forging a consensus on the major issues of peace and development. It is evident, however, that, as currently conceived and structured, it cannot adequately perform the role expected of it. That realization has led us to undertake the exercise of reforming and restructuring the Organization. To this end, we must ensure that the changes we make are not simply cosmetic but serve effectively to enhance the Organization’s capacity to deal with the challenges of the post-cold-war period. Our reforms must therefore seek to establish the United Nations as the principal forum in which macro-political, economic and social policies are collectively and consensually devised. If truth be told, the United Nations is still largely perceived, notwithstanding its recent successes in the political field, as a 'talk shop'. Like the old Congress of Vienna, which was described as a 'perpetual dance', it is viewed in the eyes of our peoples - particularly the poor and the suffering - as an endless round of dilatory debate which produces fine resolutions but precious little by way of concrete action. To survive and succeed, therefore, the United Nations must become relevant to the lives of men, women and children everywhere. Urgent action is required at this explosive period of mounting external debt, falling economic growth, falling third-world commodity prices, increasing unemployment, environmental destruction, underdevelopment and the persistence of poverty. Our troubled planet calls for statesmanship, political will and cooperation for meaningful change. Market forces alone are not providing the people with adequate opportunities to participate in and benefit from economic growth and development. We have a paradox of growing poverty in the midst of potential plenty. Science and technology have the capacity to eradicate poverty in the not too distant future and to halve it by the end of the century. Instead, we have today, both in the developed and in the developing countries, only about half the growth rate of a decade ago and the catastrophic phenomenon of 'jobless growth' - fewer and fewer jobs and more and more poverty and inequality. It is necessary to ascertain the root causes of global poverty and to develop an integrated strategy for its eradication. This necessitates a comprehensive world view and a recognition of the major contradiction of our time: the tremendous growth of the means of production and the anachronistic relations of production and the collective will to resolve this contradiction. In the intense competition in a shrinking global market - owing in large part to the increasing poverty and the widening gap between the rich and poor in both the North and South, and between the North and the South - the three centres of the industrialized world - North America, Western Europe and Japan - are resorting to even more capital-intensive growth and the use of more and more sophisticated technology: computers and robots, cybernetics and automation. How can the poor and unsophisticated in the third-world countries survive in the 'global village', in the 'borderless world' when collectively these countries have not attained the target projected long ago of 25 per cent in the production of industrialized goods and with the great majority light-years behind in human-resource development and burdened by the dead weight of unconscionable and immoral debt payments? The rapid advance to robots and automation in the North also poses a threat to the advantageous position of competitive wage rates in many countries of the South. And the industrialized countries with budget deficits, growing numbers of jobless and retirees and inadequate welfare funds cannot afford the Keynesian luxury of pump-priming and 'workfare'. In a situation of confusion and uncertainty, and with no solution in sight, the reactionary ultra-rightists and neo-fascists are getting stronger politically and becoming more vocal and strident. There is no answer to the hopelessness and despair of the more than 30 million unemployed in the countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Despair is leading to alcoholism, narcotics use, crime and suicide. Meanwhile nationalism, xenophobia and neo-fascism are on the rise, leading to racial and ethnic tensions and growing civil strife. 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The North-South dialogue has been languishing and has become a dialogue of the deaf. In the South, rising unemployment and abject poverty are interacting with rapid population growth, urbanization, overcrowding, disease, the production and use of narcotic drugs, increased flows of refugees across international frontiers and irreversible damage to the environment. Whereas it was said previously that the Berlin Wall prevented peoples in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe from travelling to the West, now new walls are being erected to prevent people from entering the developed, industrialized countries. It is not enough to treat the symptoms of the global malaise. Radical reforms are urgently needed. Structural adjustment is as necessary for the developed countries as for the developing countries, but reforms must be predicated on social justice and have a human face. Human needs and human security should be the object of development. In this regard, greater emphasis must be placed on human capital and natural capital, and much more must be done to speed up disarmament so that the despairing and hungry of the world can benefit from greatly enhanced savings. The development agenda must include a critical analysis of possible options and must deal with the international competitiveness of the third world, the basis of new modalities of international cooperation for development and the financing of development. It must also address core problems: alleviation of poverty, expansion of productive employment and enhancement of social integration, particularly of the more disadvantaged and marginal groups. To attain these objectives, the people - I repeat, the people - must play a central role. They must be fully involved in all aspects of life to take advantage of their initiatives and creativity in the fashioning of a better future and a peaceful and prosperous world. As the leader of a small nation which continues to believe in the vast potential of this Organization for making the world a better place in which to live, I appeal to the Assembly to devote itself to this urgent task. Let us work together to advance the cause of global peace and development. Mr. President, the speakers who have preceded me at this prestigious rostrum have all unanimously acknowledged your outstanding intellectual qualities, your wealth of experience and your intensive knowledge of international issues which will guarantee a positive outcome to our work that promises to be very exciting at this time when we see emerging on the horizon the irreversible turning of the activities of the Organization towards real, mutually beneficial, cooperation. The delegation of the Republic of Zaire, which it is my honour to head, associates itself with the congratulations and wishes expressed by other delegations here present and expresses the hope that your presidency will see the essential basis laid down for the establishment of this new era of peace, prosperity, mutual understanding and tolerance that we all so wish to see. I should also like to extend my sincere congratulations to the other members of the Bureau who, I am sure, will effectively assist you in carrying out your onerous but inspiring tasks as President. To your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, I should like to pay a particular and well-deserved tribute for the competence, skill and know-how with which he so capably guided the work of the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session. I should like to express to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General of the Organization, the sincere expression of our appreciation and our encouragement of his determination in the search for peaceful solutions to the many armed conflicts that are devastating the world. I should also like to welcome to the Organization the new Member States. They can count on the cooperation and assistance, both bilateral and multilateral, of the Republic of Zaire. Barely three years ago the overwhelming majority of the inhabitants of this marvelous planet Earth were filled with the hope of seeing close and multifaceted cooperation for development among nations. Although the cold war was blown away by the force of the wind of perestroika we are obliged to note that this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly has opened at a time when we are witnessing the resumption of armed conflicts in at least three of the five continents which make up this world. The collapse of the socialist bloc brought with it only a moment of calm for we note at present the explosion of hotbeds of tension and fratricidal wars in the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the former Yugoslavia, and we condemn the monstrous, inhuman and horrendous acts of modern civilization there. The primary cause of all these wars is religious or ethnic intolerance and the non-acceptance of political opinions contrary to those which one believes to be of immutable and subject to imposition on all. Thus, in Asia anachronistic situations persist and entire populations are condemned to wander without any hope of a better tomorrow. Nevertheless, my delegation backs the negotiations that are now taking place between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) on the question of Palestine and urges all the protagonists in this drama to do all in their power to ensure that these consultations lead to the conclusion of a peace agreement guaranteeing the right of each people to exist in internationally recognized territory. We hail the courage and determination of their excellencies the Prime Minister of Israel and the President of the PLO who have recognized autonomy for Gaza and Jericho and have also committed themselves to put an end to acts of piracy and sabotage. May their example be followed by other States involved in this conflict so that a lasting peace can finally be established in this region and that we can see genuine cooperation for development. So too, we reaffirm our full support and our backing for the efforts made by the two Koreas towards their peaceful reunification. We should also like to take advantage of this opportunity to congratulate the United Nations authorities which have effectively contributed to the organization of free and democratic elections in Cambodia. As regards Africa, this continent too has not been spared by the situation of semi-war, semi-peace in which young States must manage bloody conflicts which sorely try their fragile State structures and their precarious socio- economic infrastructures. However, the Republic of Zaire is gratified to see the international community mobilizing to prevent new conflicts and to find peaceful solutions to those fratricidal wars which are devastating a good number of African States. The plethora of hotbeds of tension and the recourse to military action, whether for intervention or for pacification, are likely to wipe out these efforts and to damage the humanitarian action and the noble objectives of peace and harmony pursued by the United Nations. Concerning southern Africa, in particular, Zaire supports the action being taken by the United Nations in Mozambique, and urges all the parties to the conflict to respect the commitments they have undertaken and to work towards the establishment of lasting peace there. The positive results that we have seen in South Africa, where the white minority has agreed to involve the black majority in the administration of public affairs in a Transitional Executive Council, are grounds for satisfaction for all those who have contributed towards them, and for legitimate pride for Presidents Mandela and De Klerk. Given these prospects for peace that we can see just over the horizon, it is our keen hope that there will be genuine reconciliation within the black community in South Africa so that a fratricidal war does not break out that would quite likely support the notions of those who wish to hold back the advent of a democratic and multi-racial Republic of South Africa. I beg the Assembly’s indulgence, since I should like now to dwell on the case of our neighbour Angola, which shares with Zaire a frontier over 2,600 kilometres long; in Angola, the civil war, which is becoming more intense, is causing considerable loss of life and incalculable material damage and is threatening the territorial integrity of that young nation. The Republic of Zaire, which, since it acceded to independence, has had to suffer the throes of civil war, rebellion and many attempts at secession, cannot afford to support a civil war in Angola. The tragic situation being experienced by that fraternal nation is of extreme concern to us, because it is causing us enormous political, economic and social problems. Zaire is actually a semi-landlocked country, and the closure of the Benguela railway and the continuing insecurity right alongside Matadi port, our only outlet to the sea - as a result of the crossfire between the Popular Armed Forces for the Liberation of Angola (FAPLA) and UNITA - are doing my country considerable Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 3 economic damage right at a moment when it is no longer receiving bilateral or multilateral assistance. In addition to these many economic difficulties, there has been a massive influx of our Angolan brothers and sisters, who are finding refuge with Zairian families, to which they are linked by historical ties of blood. Providing food, shelter and so on for the refugees is increasing the difficulties being experienced by the host families, who are themselves rather disadvantaged. The international community knows that the Republic of Zaire right now is going through a period of political turbulence and is encountering enormous economic and financial difficulties. In these conditions, where could Zaire find the additional resources to finance a civil war in Angola? Taking into account its internal problems, my country has no interest in promoting the traffic in weapons of war through Matadi port, given that they could change hands and fuel a civil war on its own territory. Moreover, Zaire, which neither makes nor sells arms, deplores the attitude of those countries whose citizens manufacture arms and sell them to the belligerents - under the tolerant gaze of their Governments - and then come and shed crocodile tears in international forums over the fate of the victims of this fratricidal war. The Republic of Zaire, which assisted the Republic of Angola in its struggle for independence and, through Zaire’s mediation, facilitated the historic meeting between President dos Santos and Mr. Savimbi at Gbadolite, is still ready to seek, with them, ways and means of putting an end to the Angolan tragedy. This is the spirit in which Zaire welcomed Mr. Alioune Blondin Beye, the Secretary-General’s Special Representative, on his visit to Kinshasa last September, and in which the President of the Republic of Zaire, Marshal Mobutu Sese Seko, dispatched to his Angolan counterpart an emissary whose task was to dispel any ambiguity as to whether there was meddling of any kind by my country in Angola’s internal affairs. Lastly, the Republic of Zaire, which has played an active part at the recent Libreville conference on security problems in central Africa and will soon sign the non- aggression pact that was drawn up there, considers itself an important link in the peace and security of the subregion, and does not intend to take any action that might sour the relations of good neighbourliness and cooperation that exist between our States. Ancient African wisdom tells us that when your neighbour’s house is on fire, you must help him put it out in order to stop the wind wafting the flames towards your own house. After the political turbulence that Africa experienced during the first few years of independence, some political thinkers and players believed, in good faith, that establishing strong government based on omnipresent and omnipotent single parties could forge national unity and ensure our States’ harmonious development. The Republic of Zaire was no exception to this outline. In fact, for over two decades now a monolithic political system has been in operation, with its ups and downs, and has ended up, as a result of its own internal contradictions, in such deadlock that on 24 April 1990 the President of the Republic, after three months of consultations of the people, decreed the dissolution of the single party and proposed the introduction of a pluralistic political system. Unfortunately, the enthusiasm that followed gave birth to a sort of collective outpouring and the frenzied establishment of political parties, of which there are now 360 for a total population of 40 million or so. In our concern to make an objective reassessment of our history, map out our future and ensure national reconciliation, we held a Sovereign National Conference, which, lasting over 16 months, was the costliest and the longest in Africa. The Conference raised great hopes but was unable to achieve all its goals because, from the outset, those behind it had come to it for two different reasons. For some, the Conference was the best place to take power along revolutionary-type lines - dissolving all the existing institutions and sidelining those in charge of them - while for others, who championed a reformist type of plan, the Conference ought rather to be the place for organizing government through a progressive restructuring of the institutions. This basic difference caused heightened passions from the beginning to the end of the Conference, and the political players ended up more divided than they had been before. As the document setting out constitutional provisions for the transitional period was not taken to its logical conclusion - it failed to abrogate expressly the Constitution in force - the country found itself with two basic constitutional texts. In conditions such as these, it has been difficult to arrange an equitable sharing of power between the various transitional institutions, which is why we have an institutional crisis and a political impasse. To extricate ourselves from this situation, and on the initiative of the President of the Republic and the President of the Supreme Council of the Republic, the delegates of several political platforms met in caucus to create a new institutional framework. But the results of the caucus were again disputed and the entire political class felt the need to 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session resume negotiations. These achieved, inter alia, the establishment of a new institutional framework, the unanimous acceptance of a timetable establishing the various dates for elections in the next 15 months and the adoption by referendum, within the same period, of a new constitution. Thus, a referendum will be held in 1994 on the adoption of the new constitution. There will also be free, transparent and democratic elections for mandates for the presidency of the Republic, the Parliament and the regional and local councils. The presence of an independent national electoral commission and international observers is planned to reassure all sides of the proper carrying out of all electoral operations. Thus, Zaire repeats its request to the United Nations bodies and countries with a long history of democracy for substantial help in the implementation of these important timetables. I should like here, on behalf of the Government of my country, to thank Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary- General of our universal Organization, who, at the request of the President of the Republic, sent one of his closest assistants, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, to Kinshasa to try to gather the political class of Zaire around the negotiating table. We extend to him here the deep gratitude of the people of Zaire for his selflessness and readiness in his attempt to reconcile the sons and daughters of my country. In an atmosphere of political crisis and social tension, the protection of human rights becomes very difficult and is subject to suspicions. The reestablishment of State authority and respect for the laws of the land are often identified, at best, with constraints and, at worst, with arbitrary actions, while a country cannot become involved in development projects without order or collective discipline. Despite the flaws noted in the implementation of human rights, Zaire has nevertheless made commendable efforts along those lines by granting full freedom to the press and authorizing the free exercise of political activities and the free expression of opinions. It intends to follow up these moves by cooperating with the specialized agencies of the United Nations in making more effective those bodies in Zaire entrusted with ensuring the strict observance of human rights. The democratization process is irreversible in Zaire and no one is contemplating re-establishing the old order. We all aspire to change and to the establishment of a State of law. What is important at the present stage of my country’s development is to know how to implement that change peacefully. For now, we are asking the international community and in particular those countries which wrongly believe that they have received a mandate to administer Zaire to let the Zairians themselves settle their own problems, for whenever they are free of foreign interference they always manage to overcome their antagonisms. We therefore urge our usual partners to help us to overcome this crisis instead of dividing us by canonizing some and rendering others anathema. The opportunity has thus been offered to certain countries that call themselves champions of democracy to support the organization of free and transparent elections in Zaire rather than to propose undemocratic plans that bring people to power who do not have the vote of the population, which alone can confer legitimacy. That, in our view, is the only way to rein in the excessive ambitions of certain political leaders who, in their obtrusive declarations in Kinshasa and the Western capitals, are harming the proper unfolding of the democratization process. The international community is certainly unaware of the dishonourable treatment experienced by Zairians in their travel to other countries. At present, it is nearly impossible for a citizen of Zaire to travel to, or opt to reside in, certain countries of the northern hemisphere, since for his visa is automatically refused unless he reviles his country and the legally established authorities. Is it the full enjoyment of fundamental human freedoms when he cannot reside in a territory other than his own unless he requests the status of political refugee? Are the citizens of Zaire treated this way being punished for their opinions? How can those countries that practise this policy of exclusion have a precise idea of what is transpiring in Zaire when they are preventing one category of my fellow citizens from freely expressing themselves and championing political ideas that run contrary to their own? The political uncertainties that have overshadowed Zaire for three years have pushed into the background the economic and social problems of a country in which strikes, city-wide shutdowns, civil disobedience and looting have torn asunder the economic fabric and aggravated the people’s poverty. Zaire - which has seen itself arbitrarily and vexingly deprived, under the pressure of certain Western Powers, of access to financial facilities and to bilateral and multilateral assistance at a time when its people has the greatest need - hopes that the new era in the offing will provide an opportunity for all its partners to assist it to revive its collapsed economy.In this context, my country very much hopes to resume dialogue with the Bretton Woods institutions to improve the management of public finances and to promote the flourishing of free enterprise. Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 5 As everyone knows, Zaire is a subcontinent made up of a mosaic of tribes and ethnic groups which periodically, as happens throughout the world, have trouble living together. As we approach major political or electoral stages, tensions exacerbated by demagogues is transformed into open conflicts that compel, often in inhuman conditions, some of our compatriots to abandon their homes. The Government of the Republic of Zaire cannot tolerate a situation in which citizens of Zaire find themselves refugees in their own land. Thus, more specifically concerning Shaba, it is not correct to speak of 'ethnic cleansing', since the Shaba, like the two Kasai, are not ethnic groups but the provincial homes of several ethnic groups. The Government has taken measures to halt all forced displacements, ensure the security of those who wish to remain in Shaba, and organize transportation of those who have opted to leave in humanly acceptable conditions. This task, like that of the restoration of displaced persons to their original homes, requires enormous material and financial means. In cooperation with the specialized bodies of the United Nations and non-governmental organizations, the Government is working to gather all available means in order to come to the aid of the victims of this tragedy. Here we should like to welcome the action carried out, at the request of the President of the Republic, by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who sent a specialized inter-agency team led by Mr. Darko Silovic to study in the field the ways and means to bring humanitarian assistance to these disadvantaged peoples. We fervently hope that the international community will respond massively and positively to the Secretary-General’s appeal, and we are grateful in advance for this. Concerning the ethnic difficulties in North Kivu, it is important to know that this is an ancient problem born of colonization, which was then perpetuated by the transplantation of Rwandese peoples to Zaire and by the influx of refugees following the ethnic conflicts that neighbouring country has experienced. Without lingering over the underlying causes of this conflict, we should like to inform international opinion that the Government has taken measures to re-establish calm in the region and to ensure the security of all parties to the conflict. An appeal to humanitarian assistance for those peoples who have lost everything in these sad events is sent out to the international community, the non-governmental organizations and Zaire’s customary partners, in light of the urgency of the situation and the paucity of our means which do not allow us to cope with it alone. Before concluding my statement, I should like to take up a problem which is of the greatest concern to the international community and to my country in particular: environmental protection. Zaire, whose considerable expanse of tropical humid forest gives it the symbolic status of the planet’s second lung would appreciate the international community’s acknowledgement of the huge sacrifices it is making, which are depriving it of incalculable financial resources. The preservation of the ozone layer requires that additional resources be found for the implementation of Agenda 21 and the conventions dealing with biodiversity. Thus, my country believes that its commitment not to cut down various species of trees which it considers the common heritage of mankind should allow it to benefit from certain types of compensation which would fill this financial vacuum or at least this lack of earning power. Finally, the delegation of the Republic of Zaire joins in the request made by numerous delegations for a restructuring of the United Nations system to allow all Member States, regardless of size, fully to play their role in building a world of justice, peace and mutually advantageous cooperation. Allow me, Ambassador Samuel Insanally, to congratulate you sincerely, on behalf of my delegation, on your election as President of the General Assembly of the United Nations at its forty-eighth session. At the same time, I would express to you our satisfaction that this post has gone to such a distinguished representative of the Latin American and Caribbean region. You may count on our cooperation in the important work that lies ahead of you. I would also like to express our gratitude to Ambassador Stoyan Ganev for the efficiency with which he 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session served as President of the General Assembly at its forty- seventh session. I would give a special greeting to Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, Monaco, Slovakia, and The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and bid them a cordial welcome to our Organization. Guatemala wishes to extend to them its friendship, respect, solidarity and understanding. The increase in its membership is further proof of the faith the international community places in the United Nations as a multilateral forum par excellence for seeking together the solution to the problems that beset the world today. I would also like to extend my greetings to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the United Nations, whose dynamic leadership has allowed us to progress towards the common objective of strengthening our Organization and adapting it to the new world situation. We hope that his efforts to ensure fulfilment of the Charter and of its purposes and principles will be successful. We need a strengthened Organization to maintain international peace and security and to promote social progress and better standards of life for human beings within the widest concept of freedom. We believe that the continuous dialogue between the Secretariat and the Member States should be based on mutual respect, confidence and understanding, and should take into account cultural, political, economic and social realities. The Secretary-General’s role as a facilitator of peace processes, as an adviser on human rights and as a mediator in international conflicts may be strengthened by the contribution of distinguished statesmen and experts who share with him their experience and prestige. The events which have taken place in my country since 25 May of this year have marked a fundamental change in the political and institutional life of Guatemala. The breaking-off and subsequent restoration of constitutional order created a situation in which the people of Guatemala, as the country’s only sovereigns, exercised legitimate resistance in order to protect and defend their rights and guarantees enshrined in the political Constitution of the Republic. As one of the principal consequences of these events, with a view to consolidating the restoration of constitutional order so as to reinstall the Congress of the Republic, the political parties formally pledged in writing to purge the membership of that body. Since this commitment has not yet been fulfilled, President Ramiro de León Carpio, as Head of State and the representative of national unity and the interests of the people of Guatemala, in accordance with the Constitution, requested the supreme electoral tribunal to hold a vote so that the citizens could express their will with regard to the political decision of calling for the resignation of the sitting members of the Congress and the judges of the Supreme Court. This vote, in conformity with the resolution of the tribunal, will be held on 28 November this year. This process has no precedent in our political history. We wish to stress that all the actions taken by the Government of the Republic fall strictly within the framework of the Constitution, and, though the people of Guatemala may have opted for a slower path, through legality, to consolidate their democratic institutions, we are sure that this will be the best solution for the reconciliation of the Guatemalan family and the political stability of the State. Guatemala is charting its own course, and its political process cannot be compared with other realities. Yesterday, President Ramirio de León Carpio presented the National Peace Plan and the Official Declaration on Human Rights to the Guatemalan people, as he does today, through me, to the international community. President León de Carpio’s Plan seeks a firm peace, based on far-reaching reconciliation through dialogue, so that we Guatemalans can find unity in the diversity of our cultural, ethnic, religious, social, political, economic and ecological values. It seeks lasting peace, achieved by putting an end to armed internal confrontation and seeing to it that the roots of hatred, resentment and distrust that have divided us are extirpated through negotiation and never again by violence. It seeks a peace with the power to transform, achieved by consensus and national compromise, which will lead to the strengthening of the capacity of the Government and the society as a whole to respond promptly and effectively to social requirements, with particular attention to the sectors of the population most affected by the armed internal confrontation. The first component is reconciliation. The Plan considers it essential to establish and promote the functioning in Guatemala of the permanent forum for peace. This forum will help to facilitate dialogue and ensure the participation of all Guatemalans in the solution of national problems. This reconciliation process will be promoted at the national, regional, departmental, municipal and communal levels. Thus, consensus and agreements will Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 9 express needs that are truly felt by the people and will at the same time provide guidelines for joint action by the people and the Government to solve these problems. In this decentralization strategy, we shall make use of all mechanisms for making the community’s voice heard, including urban and rural development councils. In those councils national problems will be discussed in order to arrive at conclusions that will lead to the perfecting of our democracy, the strengthening of a State based on the rule of law, the full exercise of individual freedoms, respect for human rights, integrated, self-reliant and self-sustaining development with equality and justice and the solution to problems deriving from our cultural diversity. We must link this permanent forum to previous achievements of the peace process. To this end, account should be taken, inter alia, of the contributions made to the great national dialogue and to the meetings that various sectors of the Guatemalan population had with the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity (URNG). When that group integrates itself legally it will be able, through the national reconciliation commission, to present its ideas and proposals for subjects to be dealt with in the forum. The matter of social requirements calls for honest, efficient and immediate actions by the Government to strengthen the protection and defence of human rights, actions that will reduce poverty indicators and promote development in the areas worst affected by violence and that will succeed in perfecting our democratic system. At the same time, the Government will promote and support responsible action in these fields by all sectors of society. We hope the valuable support of the international community will be added to this effort of the people and the Government, which will contribute to a prompt and effective response to the needs and requirements of the population. We cannot postpone the end of the armed confrontation, which requires the restoration of the negotiation process to bring about a definitive cease-fire; the return of the URNG to legality by means of amnesty; the defining of the conditions necessary for its integration into the country’s political life; and, in consequence, its direct participation in the permanent peace forum. We shall also define the international verification machinery which will make possible the concentration, disarmament and demobilization of URNG personnel. To achieve this, there must be an end to acts of terrorism, acts of destruction against the infrastructure and actions that harm the environment. The process also requires, first, that there be a revision of the Oslo and Mexico City accords and, secondly, that a timetable for negotiations be set. On the question of human rights, the Government has declared that it will act firmly against violations of these rights, with no distinction as to social or economic status. The necessary measures will be taken to protect and support persons and entities that are working in accordance with the law to promote and safeguard human rights. We therefore call upon the United Nations, the Organization of American States (OAS) and the States members of these organizations to increase their presence and technical contributions to actions that the State of Guatemala and its institutions undertake to strengthen, enable and perfect the machinery for protecting and defending human rights. On behalf of my Government, I request the Secretary- General of the United Nations to seek a meeting with the URNG to undertake a review of the Oslo and Mexico City accords and to set a timetable for negotiations. The Government of Guatemala is proposing this Peace Plan, aware as it is of the imperative necessity for putting an end once and for all to armed confrontation, which has cost my country so many human lives over the course of more than 30 years. Only a sturdy, lasting peace with power to transform can serve as a basis to strengthen democratic institutions, guarantee respect for human rights and promote political, economic and social development. For all of the above reasons we most warmly welcome the peace process that has been attained in the sister Republic of El Salvador and the one recently initiated between the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. Guatemala reaffirms its faith and conviction regarding the guiding principles set out in the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, outstanding among which are the principle of the peaceful solution of disputes, the right to self-determination, the sovereign equality of States and, fundamentally, the respect for human rights and the principle of democratic Government. In keeping with the principle of universality prevailing in the current international context, our country considers that cases like that of the Republic of China in Taiwan 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session should be thoroughly studied and considered in the light of the United Nations Charter. Guatemala renews its faith and hope in multilateralism, and particularly in the United Nations. It wishes to stress its tradition of peace, dialogue and negotiation and the non-use of force in international relations. The security of nations is no longer an exclusively geopolitical matter falling within the framework of bipolar confrontation. It is a global problem within which we must tackle the problems that afflict today’s world. The concept of security should include new elements that are fundamental for the peoples of the world: democracy, development, the preservation of the environment, combating drug trafficking, food security, population trends and so on. The Secretariat should be in the service of Member States and in that role should facilitate instruments that will make it possible to maintain international peace and security and promote economic cooperation and social development, which will guarantee the full exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms throughout the world. Guatemala believes that, within the process of restructuring and reorganizing the United Nations that is currently under way, the efficiency of the system and the full and democratic participation of all its Members should be secured. Democratization, as a fundamental element in the development of peoples, must coexist with development of the international community and its multilateral system. We support the initiative to expand the membership of the Security Council from a regional perspective. Operations designed to contain or solve conflicts should be matters for priority action by the United Nations as part of the Organization’s efforts to forge a new world order. Among the problems of development are to be found many of the causes of regional, national and international tension. Development must be the central focus of the efforts of the Organization. We therefore support the holding of a World Summit for Social Development, and we hope that the Secretary-General will submit the proposed agenda for development, embracing economic affairs that have traditionally been assigned to the Organization, as well as social, political, environmental and cultural matters, which we are beginning to realize are fundamental elements in the welfare of peoples. The well-being of mankind depends in large measure on the rational use of available natural resources. With regard to ecology, we need a global perspective, as the environment is the heritage of all mankind. If the benefits are enjoyed by all, the effort should be shared. The developed world must work more closely and more effectively in financing the various programmes to preserve the environment of the developing countries and must honour the commitments given in Rio de Janeiro. National and international security are threatened primarily by differences between the levels of development of countries. Effective action must be taken against poverty, hunger, disease and illiteracy. These scourges are worsening where there are concentrations of refugees or displaced persons. Cooperation must not be delayed. For this reason, Guatemala hopes that the initiative of reactivating the North- South dialogue to strengthen international economic cooperation for development and to revitalize global economic growth, as formulated by the Non-Aligned Movement and the Group of 77, will be agreed to and will lead to the creation of a better world. The developing countries must refine the machinery for political and economic coordination to enable us to get this dialogue going seriously and constructively. It is therefore essential that international economic cooperation be strengthened to revitalize global economic growth and to ensure that the technological revolution that is under way will be one more factor in the promotion of a just and equitable world order. We must not overlook the fact that the problems of national development are to be found also in the Central American region. International cooperation is necessary for the consolidation of peace and to encourage the development of the region. Meetings of Presidents of Central American States continue to be held regularly. Due note has been taken of regional political advances, and proposals for further improvement in this field have been put forward. A summit meeting of Central American Presidents will be held in Guatemala at the end of this month for the purpose of adopting the Protocol to the General Treaty on Central American Economic Integration, whose aim is to encourage social development - a priority when it comes to consolidating peace in Central America. The Central American effort at integration has been intensified. The Central American Integration System, which coordinates efforts at regional integration and is therefore a fundamental instrument in the process of regional development, now has a Secretary-General. Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 11 It has been proposed that a coordinated Central American fund to fight poverty be set up. This proposal will be studied at the next Summit of Central American Presidents. Guatemala supports economic openness so that its economy may be integrated effectively into the sphere of world trade. Along with the other Central American countries, we have made progress in establishing an integrated economic space, and we are negotiating with countries and groups of countries with a view to concluding agreements on the liberalization of trade. The Government that I represent has embarked upon a process of restructuring and consolidating its democratic institutions. Keeping faith with the Constitution of the Republic, it has today, with the greatest good will and good faith, presented its plan for peace. This is designed to save many lives and to bring to our country the longed-for peace, which cannot be achieved without the wholehearted support of the international community. I am delighted to extend to you, Sir, on behalf of the Tanzanian delegation, our sincere congratulations on your well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. Over the past two weeks you have already demonstrated your considerable diplomatic skills and leadership qualities. We look forward to a productive session under your guidance. I would also like to extend my delegation’s appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the leadership he provided to the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. The Secretary-General and the staff he leads have continued to give of their best to our Organization. Over the past year they have demonstrated a remarkable capacity to take on additional responsibilities despite dwindling resources. We owe them a debt of gratitude and they have a right to expect our support as they carry out the work we have entrusted to them. 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session During the past year, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Monaco, Eritrea, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Andorra have joined the United Nations as sovereign and independent States. It gives me great pleasure to extend to them a warm welcome and sincere congratulations and to say how much we look forward to working closely with all of them in the common endeavour to make our world a better place for our peoples and for all mankind. Another year has passed since we last met in the general debate and pledged to intensify our efforts to satisfy the aspirations of our peoples for world peace and security, for economic and social justice and for progress and development, in conditions of freedom and human dignity. It is proper that as we start another session, we should take stock of the progress made towards the realization of these aspirations. The problems of southern Africa remained a major preoccupation of my Government during the past year. My delegation commends the international community for its contribution in the search for solutions to the problems of apartheid in South Africa and the conflicts in Angola and Mozambique. Over the last 12 months, the advance towards the eradication of apartheid has brought the goal nearer than ever before. The call by the representatives of the majority people of South Africa, notably by President Nelson Mandela of the African National Congress of Azania (ANC), for the lifting of virtually all remaining economic and trade sanctions means that the progress made thus far, and the progress soon to be made, represent profound and irreversible change in terms of the Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa. Whatever happens, South Africa will never be the same. A very important recent signal suggesting that the turning-point is very close was the fixing of 27 April 1994 as election day for all South Africans. My delegation warmly welcomes this development and urges all concerned to work to achieve that target. The most important development, however, has been the enactment last month of the legislation necessary for the establishment of an independent electoral commission, an independent media council and an independent broadcasting authority as well as a Transitional Executive Council. Regrettably, there remain many obstacles on the road. Violence remains the most serious obstacle impeding progress towards the establishment of a united, democratic and non-racial South Africa. With 20,000 murders per year, according to records compiled by the Southern African Research and Documentation Centre, South Africa’s reputation of being the most violent country in the world is well deserved. The leadership of the democratic forces in the country must be commended for denying the forces of death and destruction the satisfaction of derailing the peace process. But the threat remains real and great, as evidenced by the brutal assassination of Chris Hani in April and the storming by a right-wing racist white group of the negotiations at the World Trade Centre in June. International monitoring of the violence has provided some reassurance to the victims of apartheid violence. The temerity and audacity shown by the perpetrators of violence and the blind eye turned to it by some members, including leaders, of the country’s security forces, argue for a much larger, higher-profile United Nations presence in South Africa. I urge the United Nations to respond positively to the urgent pleas of the victims of violence for more United Nations monitors. Another obstacle is the non-participation by some groups in the peace process and the threat of violence issued by some of them. This is yet another argument for increasing the presence and raising the profile of the United Nations, and of the world community as a whole, in South Africa. Angola poses a similar but more urgent challenge to the United Nations. If it has a conscience, the international community simply cannot allow the continuation of a conflict that is estimated to be claiming a thousand lives a day. It must act to stop this carnage. At the same time, we must make every effort to enable the United Nations to recover from the considerable damage done to its credibility and moral authority by its inability to respond adequately and promptly to the grave challenges posed by Jonas Savimbi. The adoption of Security Council resolution 864 (1993) on 15 September 1993 has served to put Jonas Savimbi on notice that the United Nations will no longer allow his obstinacy and prevarication to continue to thwart the will of the Angolan people, whose hopes for peace and an opportunity to improve their lives have been so rudely shaken by his greed for power. UNITA and Savimbi must be left in no doubt that there is more to come if they continue to ignore the pleas of the international community for a cease-fire, for a return to the Bicesse Accords and for respect for the electoral verdict of the Angolan people. Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 7 This applies equally to UNITA’s obligation to allow and to facilitate access by humanitarian and relief organizations to the victims of the conflict. Many relief personnel have exposed themselves to serious danger in order to help victims of the conflict. We commend them for their heroism and compassion. The best form of gratitude, however, is to ensure that those responsible for this criminal conduct receive appropriate punishment. Although different, Mozambique offers some parallels with Angola, and it remains to be seen during the implementation of the Mozambican peace accords whether the correct lessons have been learned from the Angolan experience. The delay in the implementation of the General Peace Agreement is a matter of great concern because of the obvious threat it poses to the cease-fire. We are pleased to note that the Security Council has taken the same serious view of the delay. We are pleased also to note that at long last the leader of RENAMO, Mr. Afonso Dhlakama, has been able to overcome the difficulties which until recently prevented him from meeting with President Chissano. We welcome the talks between the two leaders and commend President Chissano for bending over backwards to accommodate RENAMO. But we are concerned that the good will and magnanimity of the Government of Mozambique are not being reciprocated by RENAMO and its leadership. Instead, we observe disturbing signs of its following in the footsteps of Savimbi. For example, the Government is still not able to provide administrative services in the areas under the control of RENAMO. The United Nations has a duty to prevent such a blatant violation of the General Peace Agreement. But, more ominously, RENAMO seems to be contriving to create a situation in which it hopes to persuade the world to accept the holding of elections before the process of demobilization and the integration of forces has begun. We must spare no efforts to enable the United Nations to do all in its power to prevent an Angola-type situation from emerging in Mozambique. Regrettably, as the year continued there were more disappointments than successes. With the exception of Angola, perhaps the most disconcerting were the setbacks suffered by the peace efforts in the former Yugoslavia - in particular in Bosnia and Herzegovina - in Afghanistan and in Somalia, where the turn of events has led to a wholly unexpected and unwelcome confrontation between the United Nations and one of the factions in the tragic fratricidal conflict plaguing that country. We must do all we can to protect and preserve the integrity and moral authority of the United Nations in Somalia. Those responsible for the killing of United Nations peace-keeping forces and for instigating attacks against them must be left in no doubt about the dire consequences of their criminal conduct. But it goes without saying that the United Nations forces must themselves act with maximum restraint. Because Somalia is such a new experience for the United Nations, the outcome of its operation there is of crucial importance to the international community. The United Nations cannot afford to fail in its mission of humanitarian assistance, peace-building and peace-keeping in Somalia. Nor can it afford serious mistakes. My delegation therefore welcomes the ongoing debate on how best to achieve the United Nations mission in Somalia. The call for the United Nations to refocus its attention on the original mandate and to pay greater attention to the search for a political solution, along the lines of the Addis Ababa Agreement, deserves most urgent attention. The cease-fire in Liberia, while holding, will remain fragile while tensions remain high and the end of the crisis is not in sight. The countries of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) must be commended for undertaking an extremely costly and dangerous peace- keeping mission in Liberia on behalf of the international community. They need more than the moral and political support of the world community. We therefore welcome the establishment, by Security Council resolution 866 (1993) of 22 September 1993, of the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia (UNOMIL), which will work alongside the precedent-setting African peace-keeping effort under the auspices of ECOWAS to help resolve the Liberian conflict. The people of Western Sahara are understandably frustrated that, five years after the adoption of the United Nations plan for a referendum in Western Sahara, the international community has still not been able to give 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session them an opportunity to exercise their right to self-determination. It is not good enough to tell them that every effort is being made to overcome the problems which have prevented the holding of the referendum. After five years of discussion of the modalities of implementation, they have a right to ask whether all the parties have been negotiating in good faith. Another African conflict-resolution initiative which deserves urgent United Nations support is the Peace Agreement between the Government of Rwanda and the Rwandese Patriotic Front (RPF), which was signed in Arusha, Tanzania, on 4 August 1993 after a year of arduous and protracted negotiations. As Facilitator in the negotiations, Tanzania pays tribute to the parties to the negotiations for their spirit of give and take, which enabled the negotiations to succeed. We pay tribute to the Organization of African Unity (OAU) for its invaluable role throughout the peace process. We also pay tribute to the observer countries - Belgium, Burundi, France, Germany, Senegal, Uganda, the United States and Zaire - and to the United Nations for their encouragement and support. Nor should we forget the invaluable contribution of Mali, Nigeria, Tunisia and Zimbabwe, which provided personnel for the Neutral Military Observer Group (NMOG II), which has been monitoring the cease-fire. As implementation of the Agreement begins, priority must now be given to the establishment of the neutral international force. The joint delegation of the Government of Rwanda and the Rwandese Patriotic Front currently visiting the United Nations has been stressing that everything else hinges on the establishment of that force. I echo their appeal for speed in establishing the force. My delegation therefore welcomes the timely adoption of Security Council resolution 872 (1993) on 5 October 1993, authorizing the establishment of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR), and urges its speedy implementation. Comparisons are inadequate for measuring the suffering or damage endured by people in a war, but it is difficult to think of another current conflict in which a whole people has been subjected to the suffering, inhumanity and indignities that have been imposed on the Muslim population of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The inability of the United Nations to offer any hope to the Bosnian Muslims is one of the greatest tragedies of our time. It is bad enough that the international community has failed to put an end to the atrocities which continue to be inflicted on the Bosnian Muslims. But for the world community in these circumstances to continue to deny them the right to acquire the means with which to protect themselves is incomprehensible. The least that the United Nations can do is to lift the arms embargo on Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to enable the people to defend their families and their country. At long last there are signs of an emerging solution to the long-festering sore of the root cause of the Middle East problem - the question of Palestine - the persistence of which has for 40 years posed a serious moral dilemma for the international community’s sense of justice, fairness and equality. The agreement signed in Washington on 13 September 1993 between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) on mutual recognition, which also provides for limited autonomy for Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank town of Jericho, has been rightly hailed as a major breakthrough in the Middle East negotiations. My delegation joins in welcoming this development and in congratulating Israel and the PLO on the courage they have shown in taking this bold step towards the resolution of the intractable question of Palestine. The first step is always the most difficult to take. We are, therefore, hopeful that Israel and the PLO will now be able to move quickly to advance the process towards a just and lasting solution to the question of Palestine and thus open the way towards a comprehensive settlement of the Arab/Israel conflict. For the people of Cyprus - another vexed question that has defied solution for nearly 20 years - a meaningful new world order must be one that respects the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity as well as the non-aligned status of that country, and restores a sense of hope to the two communities for a future of partnership and cooperation in complete equality and human dignity. It is a matter of great disappointment that the hopes raised by the resumption early in the year of negotiations under the good offices of the Secretary-General proved to be premature. In Cambodia, the efforts of the United Nations to find a just and enduring end to the long-running conflict have begun to bear fruit. The successful organization and supervision of the Cambodian elections concluded an important and crucial phase of the peace effort. However, the people of Cambodia are not yet out of the woods. There is still a lot of healing of wounds to be done. We applaud the efforts being exerted to enable those who walked out of the peace process to rejoin it as the phase of reconciliation, reconstruction and development begins. Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 9 There is good news too with regard to the situation in Central America. There, the situation has continued to evolve positively, thus rewarding the international community in its efforts to encourage the region to find regional solutions to its problems. My delegation welcomes the growing involvement of the Security Council in the search for solutions to many conflicts around the world. But the Council’s capacity to respond to the growing demands for its intervention and the readiness of the international community to continue to repose its trust and confidence in the Council will depend on its ability to institute the necessary reforms. One such reform that has been called for is the expansion of the Council to take account of today’s vastly changed circumstances in comparison with 1965, when the Council was last expanded. I need not stress that any expansion must take account of the need to ensure equity in geographical representation. This also applies to the call for consideration to be given to increasing the number of permanent members. Another reform relates to the need to address the problem of selectivity by the Council in responding to various conflicts. Unless the Council is seen to treat equally all challenges to its authority, it runs the risk of losing the international community’s support and trust, which are crucial if the Council’s actions are to be accepted as legitimate. In addition, the old problem of the outdated veto is still with us and failure to do something about it will not make it go away. The very encouraging practice of reaching decisions by consensus has reduced the demand for the abolition of the veto. This has helped, but it is not enough. So long as the veto exists, the threat of its use will continue to affect the outcome of debates. One member will always be able to thwart the will of the international community. How the Council does its work is also a matter of great interest and concern to the international community. The call for transparency is a very legitimate one, but of greater concern is the growing conviction on the part of a large segment of the membership of the United Nations that the Council has been stretching its interpretation of the Charter to include things not foreseen in Chapter VII, such as humanitarian emergencies, human rights, ecological threats, drug trafficking and the like. While the Council must be enabled to respond to new situations, there is a real danger that it will allow itself to be guided not by the Charter but by the dictates of a few Member States. Disarmament has always been a major preoccupation of the international community for reasons that are self-evident. There are far too many weapons around the world - more than nations need for their legitimate defence. The priority given to the chemical weapons Convention reflects the international community’s concern about the great danger posed to international peace and security by this particular weapon of mass destruction. Regrettably, nuclear arms, which pose an even greater threat, have not received the priority consideration they deserve. While we applaud the agreements concluded by the United States and the Russian Federation for sharp reductions in their nuclear arsenals, the fact should not be overlooked that, even after the START Treaty, there are today in their stockpiles five times more of this category of nuclear weapons than existed at the time of the signing of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons in 1968, and the level is the same as it was when they began negotiations nine years before the START Treaty was signed. The reality of the nuclear threat becomes more evident if we take account of the nuclear-weapon stocks of the other nuclear-weapon States. That is why we must urge all nuclear-weapon States to accord the highest priority to nuclear disarmament. My delegation has always regarded the non-proliferation Treaty, despite its flaws, and a comprehensive test-ban treaty as important international instruments that can advance the cause of nuclear disarmament. It goes without saying that before the non-proliferation Treaty can perform this role, its inherent flaws - especially its provisions discriminating between nuclear-weapon and non-nuclear-weapon States - must be addressed. The two major nuclear-weapon States have agreed on some reductions in their stockpiles. They need to go much further and to make clear that the objective is the eventual elimination of those stockpiles, which means that they must stop, reverse and eventually put an end to vertical proliferation. The 1995 Review Conference of the Treaty will be a success to the extent that it comes to grips with these flaws. The most hopeful recent development towards a comprehensive test-ban treaty has been the voluntary moratorium or restraint on testing unilaterally agreed to by all the nuclear-weapon States. That is why we welcome the decision of the United States of America to extend its moratorium. We very much hope that this extension will persuade the other nuclear-weapon States to maintain their moratoriums and that the halt can be used to negotiate a comprehensive test-ban treaty under the auspices of the Conference on Disarmament or the Amendment Conference of the partial test-ban Treaty. 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The world economic statistics for the period 1992 to 1993 send mixed signals. Overall, despite strong growth in a number of developing countries, there was negligible growth in the world economy. For much of the African continent, per capita output has continued to decline, placing the continent in a precarious situation. The average growth of gross domestic product in Africa reached a new low of 1.4 per cent in 1992, owing in part to drought, civil wars, political instability and the long-term effects of deteriorating terms of trade as a result of the inequitable operation of the present world order. The United Nations agenda for the development of Africa in the 1990s, adopted by the General Assembly at its last session, seems unlikely to fare any better than its predecessor, the United Nations Programme of Action for African Economic Recovery and Development, 1986-1990. As became obvious during the review of the Programme of Action carried out in 1990, that initiative fell short of the continent’s expectations. Nevertheless, Tanzania believes that both the United Nations and the international community at large still have the ability to play a greater role in assisting the continent to overcome its poverty. Recovery of investments is crucial to the long-term improvement of the economic performance of the African continent. However, contrary to earlier expectations, economic reform has not brought a significant increase in investments. Throughout Africa, it remains far below its peak level of the mid-1970s as a result of foreign exchange constraints arising from deteriorating terms of trade and limited capacity to import capital goods, and because of the debt burden and debt servicing. Tanzania welcomes the initiative taken by some donor countries to address the problem of the debt crisis by writing off part of the bilateral official debt of the least developed countries. However, this is only part of the solution to the problem. Apart from debt-relief measures, Africa needs a fresh infusion of financial resources to improve the rate of investment and to accelerate the economic growth of affected countries. It is for this reason that Tanzania welcomes the initiative of the Government of Japan to organize, in collaboration with the United Nations and the Global Coalition for Africa, the Tokyo International Conference on African Development in October 1993, with a view to highlighting the issue of African economic development as one of the central themes on the international agenda for the twenty-first century. My delegation hopes that the Tokyo Conference will come up with concrete recommendations on measures designed to help the African continent overcome its problems once and for all, as well as to remind the international community of its commitment to Africa and the need to help the continent face the challenges of the twenty- first century from a position of strength. We have been walking the road from Rio for more than a year now. In Rio we made a strong commitment to protect our planet by promoting sustainable development through a global partnership. Though a basic framework to make the world’s environment healthier in the twenty-first century was laid out at Rio, we have not, so far, begun making those commitments a reality. The truth is, the Earth is environmentally poorer than it was a year ago. The high-level Commission on Sustainable Development has been formed to monitor progress in the implementation of Agenda 21 and other activities related to the integration of environmental and developmental goals through the United Nations system. Allow me to express my delegation’s hope that this Commission will be an action-oriented body which will effectively translate the commitments made in Rio into a reality, and that it will not end up being financially strapped, as has often been the fate of other United Nations institutions. A milestone reached at Rio was the decision to prepare an international convention to combat desertification and drought. The Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee for the elaboration of this convention has already held its first and second substantive sessions and it is hoped that, hopefully by this time next year, a convention to combat desertification and drought will have been finalized. While welcoming the progress made during the first two substantive sessions, Tanzania wishes to call for maximum support and cooperation from all countries to ensure the success of the global convention, which has particular relevance for Africa. The convention should be looked upon, not only as a mechanism to attract resources, but also as a global partnership in combating a global phenomenon threatening the sustainable development of over 900 million people worldwide. There is no end to our expectations in fulfilment of the United Nations. As the largest world family, it has to take care of all the members of the family, rich and poor, able and disabled. The world would be a better place for mankind if we in the United Nations act expeditiously, judiciously and fairly. After all, it is the people who constitute the States that need help. On behalf of the Government of the Sultanate of Oman, allow me at the outset to convey to your Excellency our sincere congratulations and to express our pleasure on your election as President of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I am confident that thanks to your well-known competence and diplomatic skills, our deliberations will reach a successful and meaningful conclusion. Permit me also to take this opportunity to extend profound gratitude and appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the exemplary manner in which he steered the work of the forty-seventh session. At this point, I feel it is important to refer to the Secretary-General’s comprehensive report (A/48/1) issued in September 1993, which dealt with the activities of the United Nations and the issues and concerns on its agenda. In particular, I wish to refer to paragraphs 353 to 366 regarding the situation between Iraq and Kuwait. We highly commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his great efforts, and we shall be looking forward to contributing, with all Member States, in achieving a unified stand that will ultimately lead to an integrated approach of coordination, understanding and cooperation towards the advancement of our goals of development, peace and stability. This session is convened at a time when the hopes and expectations of all peoples are geared towards a new phase of constructive international cooperation between the Members of the United Nations, whose number has been increasing annually. In this context, our country welcomes the admission of Eritrea to the membership of the United Nations after its accession to independence through its people’s decades-long struggle. Eritrea is a country with which we have cultural and historical ties and with which we share aspirations after stability and peace. My country also welcomes the admission of the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic as Members of the international organization and commends them for having settled their political problems peacefully and avoided conflicts, bloodshed and suffering. We also welcome the admission of the Republic of Macedonia, Andorra and Monaco to our Organization. We are confident that the enlargement of our international family will give us more strength and confidence in undertaking further innovative international cooperation. These countries joined the United Nations after they had gained their independence through the long and painful struggle of their peoples during the cold war and the period that was overshadowed by conflict between the great Powers. Today, in the post-cold-war world, we see positive political developments taking place. In addition to the emergence of several sovereign nations, we have seen great political developments which give us renewed hope that a new world will be established on the basis of brotherhood and cooperation instead of conflict and bloodshed, a world in which wounds are healed. Our presence here underscores our conviction that the General Assembly is the unique international forum for discussing and exchanging views among all Member States, regardless of their size or strength. As Members of the United Nations, we must engage in positive talks and negotiations with the purpose of settling international problems. This forty-eighth session of the General Assembly is held under circumstances that should encourage us to establish a set of advanced rules that would govern international relations. This we should do by taking advantage of the newly acquired capability of the United Nations to enforce the rule of the law in peacemaking and peace-keeping the world over. We are confident that our Organization, which shoulders a heavy burden of serious Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993 5 responsibility will be able to rise to the challenges that face it, so long as the international community continues to be committed to and redoubles its efforts in supporting the United Nations and the principles it stands for. There is no doubt that, the success of the United Nations depends on the coordinated efforts of Member States in addressing the outstanding issues and crises which must be solved collectively in the cause of building our new world order. There is an urgent need for the organs of the United Nations to provide positive conditions and effective mechanisms before the United Nations is required to deal with any regional or international crisis. We are convinced that no matter how far apart the positions of the parties to any conflict are, they will not reject intervention by the United Nations if the intervention is timely and appropriate. In any case, the tasks of the United Nations should be exclusively in the areas of achieving peace and providing humanitarian assistance. The march towards peace between the two peoples of Palestine and Israel has just begun. The first important step has been taken towards the comprehensive solution for which we have long waited. The United Nations which, together with all its organs, played a prominent role in the Arab-Israeli conflict should feel a sense of satisfaction at what has been achieved. However, much work lies ahead for the United Nations and its organs in pursuing and preserving this historic agreement that will benefit not only the people of the Middle East, but the entire world as well. It is high time the Palestinian people put behind them their long-drawn-out suffering and looked forward to economic and social development under the new world order. The Palestinian-Israeli agreement has paved the way towards other agreements between the Arabs and Israel. However, we should not be over-optimistic. The residues of bitter conflict are there, and unless the peoples and States of the Middle East are fully taken care of, those residues will constitute real obstacles which will make difficult the achievement of the goal we all aspire after. The leaders of the Palestinian and Israeli peoples have shouldered their responsibilities and have done what was expected of them. Now it is the responsibility of all States of the world to maintain and preserve this achievement. It is not enough to extend congratulations to those leaders or to give them our moral support. The United Nations must take positive complementary steps towards sponsoring projects from which they could benefit economically and socially. My country has voiced its support for this agreement between Israel and Palestine. We are very pleased to welcome this accord and look forward to a comprehensive peace agreement that would guarantee the mutual interests, rights and benefits of all parties on the basis of the implementation of United Nations Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), 425 (1978) and the principle of land for peace. Thus, we call upon all States Members of the United Nations to support this process. We look forward to any positive contribution to any role played by the United Nations in making the peace we hope for. Regional cooperation in the area of economic and social development will always be an indispensable prerequisite of any new order in the Middle-East region. In order for the new dawn of peace which has just emerged with the signature of the historic agreement between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel to continue, develop and become a reality, the international community has assisted in rehabilitating the countries that suffered from the war situation which, until recently, prevailed in the region. In this context, while we pay special attention to supporting the Palestinian people’s progress to self-determination, we must also bear in mind the urgent need of the Lebanese people for assistance and help them rebuild their economic and social infrastructures. Whatever assistance the international community can offer by way of economic and administrative support will provide the foundation for hope in a future of peace. The Middle-East region is not the only part of the world where optimism is diluted by fear. In many other parts of the world, the United Nations is deploying efforts that aim at tipping the scales in favour of optimism against anxiety and fear. In this context, while we value the United Nations efforts in Somalia, we believe that such efforts should be based on concordance between the United Nations and the different Somali factions. The success of the United Nations operations in Somalia depends on the cooperation that can be achieved between the United Nations and the Somali factions. The restoration of peace and stability cannot be achieved unless all Somali factions commit themselves to cooperate effectively with the United Nations in addressing the problems and difficulties that face the Somali people. On the European continent, the international community continues to witness another serious and highly sensitive problem, namely the situation in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is no doubt that it is the European 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session countries that bear the responsibility of addressing the humanitarian, political, security and economic aspects of this problem. The principles of human rights, justice and equality have always been the lofty ideals that civilized Europe preached and called upon the world to adhere to. Paradoxically, the world has yet to see those lofty principles being put into practice and translated into measures that would rescue the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina from their agony and from injustice and persecution. Although Europe is making efforts to steer the warring factions towards reconciliation, the fact that Europe has failed to take a decisive stand on the basis of justice and equality has made the continuing tragedy of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina doubly dangerous as its persistence may very well encourage the forces of evil and oppression in other parts of the world to take heart and follow in the footsteps of the aggressors in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As a matter of fact, we are beginning to witness examples of such behaviour, in the strife between Azerbaijan and Armenia, in the continuing plight of Georgia, in the explosive situation in Tajikistan, and in the continuing civil war in Angola and in many other war-stricken areas, hotbeds of tension which may explode at any moment and threaten world peace and security. Some of those problems, as well as many others, are left-overs from the cold war conflicts. They persist in various forms and put a heavy burden on the United Nations and its organs. As I said earlier, this international Organization, with its present capabilities, cannot shoulder its responsibilities as vigorously as it should if it is to achieve full success in restoring stability whenever one of those problems explodes. Therefore, we believe that the United Nations should concentrate on issues of a humanitarian nature which attract a measure of regional and international consensus that would support United Nations action. It must be realized that if the United Nations goes on taking it upon itself to address the world’s problems all in one go, it will squander its capabilities and will risk failure. It is therefore most important to establish a mechanism that would coordinate the efforts of the United Nations and the regional organizations in addressing such problems and crises. We, as members of this international Organization, are enthusiastic and eager to develop the current mechanisms of the United Nations so that the Organization may be able to continue to play an essential and dynamic role in the world of tomorrow that should be built on the principles of dialogue and cooperation between countries and regional economic groups. Economic development and scientific progress will be principal features of that future world. Hence the pressing need for re-examining the economic structures of the various regimes that existed during the cold war era. Such re-examination should be guided primarily by the principles of free-market mechanisms and oriented towards freeing the potential of third-world countries to acquire advanced technology in order for those countries to be able to develop their resources and market their products without any economic barriers or restrictions. This, in our view, will help consolidate the world economic order and contribute to the world economic recovery from the recession that is currently wreaking havoc on the economies of the developed countries. Cognizant of the growing interdependence and globalization of the world economy, the Sultanate of Oman contributes vigorously in this direction. For instance, in cooperation with large international institutions, the Sultanate of Oman has been involved in petrol resources development projects in Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation with the aim, inter alia, of assisting in the development and improvement of the economies of these countries which we believe could ultimately lead to greater general security and stability. The Sultanate of Oman believes that the increasingly interdependent nature of the world economy is a major development in the post cold war era. We shall, therefore, work with our neighbours and partners to promote mutual economic prosperity. Our initiative towards building a strategic pipeline to transfer natural gas to the peninsula of the Indian subcontinent aims at fostering the economic growth of fraternal countries in that region. We call upon the world to take collective action towards alleviating poverty and hunger, which are the two main sources of regional tensions and political upheavals. Allow me to take this opportunity to convey, on behalf of my Government, my sincere appreciation to the members of the Asian Group for their support and endorsement of the candidature of the Sultanate of Oman for membership in the Security Council during the period of 1994-1995. By the same token, my heartfelt gratitude goes to those countries and other groups which supported the candidature of my country. I should like to assure our supporters and all Member States that from the very beginning of its membership, the Sultanate of Oman will do its utmost to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the United Nations, particularly in the area of establishing and maintaining peace. With the desire for membership in the Security Council comes a strong awareness of the special responsibilities entrusted to the members of the Council. We commit Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993 7 ourselves to work collectively to achieve the effectiveness required for the implementation of the Security Council’s resolutions and the success of the Secretary-General’s efforts. The Sultanate of Oman feels special responsibility towards its youth and their future, as they are the future generation that will work to maintain the new world order. For this reason, my country, based on its demographic profile, has given priority to the promotion of youth programs in its developmental, social and economic plans. We look forward to cooperating with other States through the United Nations in pursuing activities particularly aimed at the welfare of the youth of our communities. In this context, I am delighted to highlight the September 1993 report of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) which describes the achievements of countries in the spheres of health and welfare of children. The report states that the Sultanate of Oman ranked first among Middle Eastern and North African countries and second world wide in the reduction of the child mortality rate for under fives. Moreover, the Sultanate of Oman occupied the first place among Middle Eastern and North African countries in the provision of vaccinations against measles. In the field of education, 91 per cent of our five- year-old children are attending elementary school, a statistic which exceeds regional and international averages. We shall continue to improve on these achievements through the fruitful cooperation between the Sultanate of Oman and the organs of the United Nations, especially UNICEF, in the field of health programmes that would ensure children’s welfare and development to our satisfaction. We view such efforts as good examples of how international cooperation can be seen to bring positive and beneficial results to our communities. We shall endeavour to achieve even better results in this area. While we continue to focus on our youth, we also work simultaneously and enthusiastically to conserve the environment in order to ensure a healthy and better place for the next generation. In this regard, I should like to inform the General Assembly that my country has recently become part of the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer and the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer. This is in line with our conviction that the international agreements on the environment and our commitment to such agreements are the right way to protect this planet and its resources. The environment, on which survival on this planet depends, is still beset by pollution and the exhaustion of essential resources. Such a situation undermines the prosperity of the inhabitants of the planet. Without operational and effective economic plans for the implementation of, and the relevant special procedures for, the environment conservation programme, the prospects of success for our efforts will be meagre indeed. As in other areas, the differing levels of economic development from one country to the other lie behind environmental problems. We believe that the prevailing chronic recession in the world has not made it feasible to re- examine and redefine our economic priorities. However, there is a pressing and urgent need for such re-examination to be carried out against the backdrop of the environmental and economic challenges now facing us. The recession that now plagues the industrialized countries has resulted from the deterioration of growth rates in the Third World countries. We hope that the developed countries will realize the importance of allowing the developing countries to revitalize their economies so that the economic order may regain the balance between the supply side upon which the economies of the industrialized countries depend and the demand side which constitutes the basis of the economic growth of the Third World countries. We are concerned that if the developed countries are not fully responsive to and supportive of the essential requirements of economic recovery in the Third World countries, the present world economic situation will ultimately lead to a cancerous recession that will affect the whole world and lead to disastrously negative consequences. Finally, it must be said that despite all this, we should tip the scales in favour of optimism regarding the prospects of building a new world of peace, brotherhood and prosperity. Regardless of the many hotbeds of regional and ethnic conflicts, we are confident that our constructive discussions at this session and at all levels will ensure the emergence of a better world in the coming century that will be free of all the tragic negative residues of the past. Our best guarantee that it will be so is that our common future will depend on positive cooperation between all countries in the interests of international stability and prosperity under the rule of law and in consonance with the behests of justice and sagacity. May I congratulate Ambassador Insanally of Guyana on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I also wish to acknowledge the excellent work done by His Excellency Ambassador Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria as President of the last session of the General Assembly. I also pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dedication to the cause of the United Nations and to its reform at this important juncture. Allow me to take this opportunity to express my warmest welcome to the new Member States - Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Monaco and the Slovak Republic. My delegation wishes them every success and looks forward to working closely with them in all areas. We live in an age of historic transition. This is confirmed by the dramatic changes in the international situation since the last session. A new world order, which is fundamentally different from the old one, is taking shape. We are witnessing a trend towards peace, cooperation and interdependence, instead of conflict, confrontation and ideological bigotry. The most resounding testimony to this effect emerged in the peace accord between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization signed in Washington this month. Today we find ourselves in an international environment that was only a vision to the founding fathers of the United Nations. I should like to quote from the remarks of Mr. Oswaldo Aranha, a distinguished diplomat from Brazil, who was the President of the General Assembly in 1947. He said: 'All idea of force is today obsolete and negative. The old order, based on political power, is trying to survive, but there is no longer room for predominance through force. The United Nations stands for the new order, based on peaceful accord, on understanding, on free discussion ... and on the common and equal responsibility of peoples.' (Official Records of the General Assembly, Second Session, Plenary Meeting,' 128th meeting, p. 1442) Forty-five years after these words were spoken, we finally stand at the end of one era and on the threshold of a new one. This may be a second, and perhaps the last, opportunity for us to fulfil the stated mission of the United Nations at its creation. To be sure, the end of the cold war does not mean the end of all problems. The world worries about the continuing and even worsening ethnic and religious conflicts. We face the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Environmental protection is another major challenge to today’s world. Development cannot be taken for granted. These are monumental issues that require the collective efforts of all members of the international community, and of the United Nations in particular. We have entered an age of diversity and uncertainty, but we should not be daunted by this new reality. We may not be accustomed to it, but we should not be afraid of living in a pluralistic world. Nations differ in what they want to achieve and in how they want to achieve it. These diverse goals, while constituting a possible source of conflict, should also form the basis for complementarity and cooperation among nations. Some say that bipolarity is being replaced by multipolarity. Yet 'pluralistic', rather than 'multipolar', is perhaps more precise a term to describe the emerging world order. A multipolar world would postulate geopolitics based upon conflict and balance of power. A pluralistic world, on the other hand, accepts diversity and encourages cooperation. Thus, the world has the potential to become more democratic and harmonious than it has ever been in history. One of the most noteworthy changes in the aftermath of the cold war is the strengthening of the United Nations, particularly in the field of peace and security. The 'Agenda for Peace' report that Secretary-General Boutros-Ghali submitted last year provides a solid base on which to augment the role of the United Nations in this area. Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 35 Preventive diplomacy, in particular, is of the utmost importance, given the enormous human and material costs of conflicts once they break out. My delegation will continue its participation in the efforts to translate into a meaningful reality such initiatives as 'preventive diplomacy' and 'post-conflict peace-building'. As the continuing tragedies in Bosnia and Somalia demonstrate, conflicts fuelled by ethnic and religious differences, poverty and internal disorder are becoming a new and major threat to international security. In response to increasing demands, 17 United Nations peace-keeping operations are active in different parts of the world. However, traditional peace-keeping may no longer be a sufficient response to current conflicts. We find that the scope of these operations is widening, ranging from the supervision of a cease-fire to nation-building. Furthermore, the timely deployment of peace-keepers is imperative to temper a conflict at an early stage. For this reason, we believe that the proposed mechanism of United Nations stand-by forces is an appropriate way to enhance the Organization’s role in meeting new challenges to peace. The availability of stand-by forces will enable the United Nations to provide a quick and effective response to conflicts. I take this opportunity to reaffirm my Government’s support of the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II). We dispatched an engineering battalion in June, and we urge all the factions concerned in Somalia to cooperate fully with the United Nations. Given the successful precedent set by the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC), I am confident that UNOSOM II will also fulfill its peacekeeping mission. None the less, it is a source of grave concern that the number of United Nations casualties in Somalia is sharply increasing. Effective arrangements need to be worked out to enhance the safety and security of those who are involved in the United Nations peace-keeping operations there and everywhere else. In the domain of peace and security, preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, both nuclear and biochemical, is another critical task. The Republic of Korea strongly supports the efforts to stop nuclear-weapons proliferation beyond 1995 through the extension of the nuclear non-proliferation Treaty (NPT). We also support the strengthening of International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards as the central device for ensuring the effectiveness of the NPT. At the same time, consistent with the spirit and objective of the NPT, we urge the existing nuclear Powers not only to accelerate their efforts to reduce their nuclear arsenal but also actively to join the efforts for a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. That will encourage non-nuclear countries to adhere and agree to an indefinite extension of the NPT régime. My delegation welcomes the commitment of nuclear-weapon States to a continuing moratorium on nuclear testing. With regard to chemical and biological weapons, the conclusion of the chemical weapons Convention in January was a big step forward. We urge those States that have not yet joined the Convention to do so as early as possible. The Convention, together with the biological weapons Convention, will serve as a major instrument in preventing proliferation of biochemical weapons. With the ending of the cold war, disarmament has moved into the realm of real possibility. Over the past few years disarmament has gained momentum with agreements on nuclear-arms reduction and cut-backs in conventional forces. We have to keep this momentum alive. In the light of these developments, the October 1992 report of the Secretary-General on 'New dimensions of arms regulation and disarmament in the post-cold war era' has offered timely and useful guidelines for disarmament. At the same time, we should take note of the ongoing reassessment of multilateral disarmament machinery. The Conference on Disarmament is particularly important as the single multilateral disarmament negotiating forum. In my delegation’s view, the Conference on Disarmament should be appropriately expanded in membership to reflect the changed international environment. In addition, the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms that was launched with the participation of more than 70 Member States should be implemented on a universal basis as soon as possible. As I discuss the issue of disarmament, I need to draw attention to the Korean peninsula. Despite the worldwide trends towards peace and cooperation, there is still tension in Korea. My Government believes that the solution to the inter- Korean question should be sought in the context of the post-- cold-war international order of reconciliation and 36 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session cooperation. This means active participation by both North and South Korea in the regional and global order. We are particularly concerned with the North Korean nuclear programme. North Korea should cooperate in removing any suspicions surrounding it by honouring its non-proliferation obligations under the NPT. In conformity with the Security Council resolution 825 (1993), the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea must comply with its safeguards agreement with IAEA. At the same time, we urge the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to cooperate with us in implementing the 1991 inter-Korean Joint Declaration of the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. My delegation is also deeply concerned about the safety of North Korean nuclear power reactors. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the countries concerned should pay special attention to the safety issue as well as to the non-proliferation question in relation to the North Korean nuclear program. There are several urgent issues of a non-military nature whose solution requires a global approach. Development and trade, environment, and human rights are some of them. The post-cold war international environment both requires and enables us to place greater emphasis on economic and social development. We should now devote the peace dividend to development efforts. Given the high degree of interdependence in today’s world, no country is immune from the consequences of economic difficulties in other countries. Poverty, population problems and environmental degradation have become a common threat to the well-being of mankind. These non-military crises are now the issues to be addressed with a sense of urgency and collective endeavour by all nations. The role of the United Nations in this area should be strengthened. I welcome the recent initiatives to restructure and revitalize the United Nations system in the economic and social field. The structure of the system should be streamlined for effective mobilization of limited resources. Meanwhile, I believe a substantial increase in development resources is necessary to support developmental cooperation. Developed countries are encouraged to enhance their efforts in this area. To achieve a more prosperous world, we need to strengthen the global free trade regime. The regime of the General Agreement on Tariff and Trade (GATT) was created shortly after the founding of the United Nations. The underlying philosophy was clear: peace and security can best be guaranteed if buttressed by economic prosperity. During the cold-war period, this global free trade regime exceeded early expectations by bringing wealth and prosperity to those who embraced it. Now that the cold war is over, the whole world can more fully benefit from it. Our choice is clear. We must strengthen the free trade system, by ensuring a successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round. Economic development is closely linked with the environment issue. It was at the Rio Summit last year that the world was keenly awakened to this critical issue. The Summit emphatically stressed the importance of global partnership to achieve environmentally sound and sustainable development towards the twenty-first century. When we deal with environmental problems, it is important to strike a balance between the North and the South. The former focuses on the primacy of environmental protection while the latter emphasizes the development imperatives. We believe that the Commission on Sustainable Development is a very appropriate forum for seeking such a balance and coordinating the implementation of the results of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. As a member of the Commission on Sustainable Development, the Republic of Korea is ready to do its part in contributing to global action. We hope to help bridge the divergences between the developed and the developing countries. We are now in the process of joining the Framework Convention on Climate Change and other environmental agreements. The human rights issue is receiving growing attention on the international level. This may be a natural phenomenon as the emerging pluralistic world society facilitates the promotion of democracy all over the world. At the World Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna in June, I had the privilege to report to the forum that human rights have finally come of age in Korea. I also pledged our firm support for the international movements to promote human rights. The Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action are the most significant results of the Conference. We must take the necessary follow-up measures. In five years we will commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948. I hope that our Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 37 generation will be able to meet the expectation set by those who produced this Declaration. As we pay due attention to the human rights issue, we should also concern ourselves with the question of refugees and disadvantaged groups. Armed conflicts and natural disasters around the world raise the need for humanitarian assistance and protection of refugees and displaced persons. The Republic of Korea’s recent accession to the Convention relating to the status of refugees testifies to its commitment to this cause. I attach special significance to the World Summit for Social Development which will take place in 1995 in Copenhagen. I hope that effective programmes of action will be put forward at this Conference to tackle major impediments to social development. As the United Nations faces new opportunities and challenges, it also needs reforms in order to cope with them better. This is indeed a tall order. We believe that, with the enormous increase in the general membership of the United Nations, it has become necessary to enlarge the Security Council. The question is how to enlarge the Council without sacrificing its effectiveness. The creation of a third category, with long- term membership but without the power of veto, coupled with the expansion of the non-permanent membership, may be an answer. Concerning the General Assembly, the simplification of the committee structure, through the merger of the Fourth Committee and the Special Political Committee, will undoubtedly enhance its efficiency. The rationalization of the agenda may be another measure to help enhance the capability of the General Assembly. My delegation also welcomes the Secretary-General’s measures to reform the Secretariat and supports him in this complex task. In particular, the recent establishment of the Office of the Assistant Secretary-General for Inspections and Investigations is an initial step towards increasing the accountability of the Secretariat. I note with concern the report of the Secretary-General that refers to the financial status of the United Nations. We fully agree with him that in order to enable this Organization to meet the demands of its time, the resources provided should match its political will. My delegation is in favor of constructive discussions during the current session which would explore ways and means of alleviating the current financial difficulties of the United Nations. I believe the reform should be based on a proper understanding of the changed world situation. It should also conform with the purposes and principles of the United Nations. I hope this process will lead to an efficient and productive United Nations that is truly capable of fulfilling the aspirations of mankind by the year 1995, the world body’s fiftieth anniversary. Given the vital role that the United Nations has played in the Republic of Korea, we will observe this occasion with particular dedication. A national committee will be formed and activities will be coordinated with the Secretariat, with special emphasis on conveying the message of the United Nations to Korea’s next generation. In the Republic of Korea, the new Government has launched a reorientation of foreign policy. Our new diplomacy places emphasis on universal values - peace, democracy, liberty, welfare and human rights. Globalism is at the core of the new diplomacy. Korea is pursuing a more active role in tackling global issues such as international peace and security, disarmament, the eradication of poverty, protection of the environment and efficient utilization of natural resources. It is through such engagement in global affairs that Korea seeks to play its due part in the activities of the United Nations designed to make the world a safer, more just and more prosperous place. The Republic of Korea is now participating in the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II). It is also serving a three-year term on the Economic and Social Council. We shall actively seek ways to increase our contribution to international organizations, especially those within the framework of the United Nations. In this regard, the Republic of Korea hopes to better contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security by having an opportunity to serve on the Security Council. We hope to receive the encouragement and support of the world community in these efforts. Democratization, and harmony between nations, are the most important trends of the new world order. By drawing upon them, we have the opportunity to make the future more peaceful and secure than ever before in the history of mankind. Our success or failure will depend upon our understanding of the nature of the new order and our ability to build on it. 38 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session To be sure, there are dangers also. We failed with the League of Nations. We often experienced bitter frustration during the cold war period. Yet, we are on the threshold of a new beginning. We need to look forward, because the future is in our hands. We have to prove to ourselves that we are equal to the task. On behalf of the Niger and its people, I wish to extend my warmest salutations to this distinguished Assembly. It is truly with great pleasure that I am taking part in the general debate of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. As the first democratically elected President of the Niger, I have come to bring members and all the peoples represented here a message of esteem and friendship, goodwill and cooperation from the people of the Niger. I have come to express the pride of the people of the Niger in belonging to the great family of the United Nations. I have come to reassert its powerful and sincere faith in the ideals and principles expressed in the United Nations Charter. I have come to share its anxieties and concerns with members and to state our determination to join with all the members of the Assembly in the efforts to build a better world for present and future generations. First, however, may I join the speakers who have preceded me in extending to you, Mr. President, our sincere 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session congratulations on your well-deserved election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. By unanimously giving you the heavy task of guiding its work, the General Assembly pays a well-deserved tribute to your skills and to your country, Guyana, for its invaluable contribution to the efforts of the United Nations to achieve its noble ideals. Of course, I also congratulate the other members of the Bureau, who I am certain will spare no effort to support you in the successful accomplishment of your difficult functions. I also assure you of the full cooperation of the Niger delegation. To your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, I express the compliments of the Niger delegation for the competence, efficiency and tact with which he presided over the work of the last session. Finally, I pay a special tribute to our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the fresh dynamic he has brought to the United Nations, with a firm commitment to international development, peace and security. This work since his election to the head of the world Organization clearly reflects our concerns. On behalf of Niger, I warmly congratulate him. From 29 July to 3 November 1991 the active elements of the nation of Niger held a National Supreme Conference, which was a historic opportunity to consider the results of Niger’s 30 years of independence and lay the foundations for further efforts to strengthen the cohesiveness and unity of our people and guarantee them the conditions for sustained and harmonious development. Following that Conference, Niger resolutely set forth on the path of democratization, to build for our people a State of law founded on the principles of pluralist democracy and committed to observing and guaranteeing respect for human rights as defined in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the 1981 African Charter of Human and National Rights. As a prelude to the democratization process, the people of Niger, by an overwhelming majority, adopted in a referendum on 26 December 1992 the Constitution of the Third Republic, which guarantees the human rights set out in various international instruments and enshrines the separation of powers between the executive, legislative and judiciary branches. Furthermore, the Constitution contains many other innovative elements, such as providing for the establishment of a high council of communication, an independent administrative body to ensure and guarantee the freedom and independence of the communications media and fair access for political parties, associations and citizens to official means of information and communications. The Constitution of 26 December 1992 proclaims Niger’s commitment to spare no effort to achieve the ideal of African unity, as well as its willingness to cooperate in friendship and equality with all peoples devoted to peace, justice and freedom. Once the Constitution was adopted the people of Niger went to the polls on 14 February 1993 to elect the 83 Deputies of the National Assembly, the legislative body of the Third Republic. This Assembly is in every way representative of the ethnic diversity of our people and its political points of view. Indeed, through the creation of special districts during the elections, in addition to the regular administrative districts, every ethnic group in Niger is today represented in the National Assembly. The government majority is made up of an alliance of nine political groups, while the opposition is made up of a grouping of three parties holding 33 of the 83 seats in the National Assembly. The democratization process undertaken by my country was completed by the holding, from 14 to 27 March 1993, of two-stage presidential elections, in which eight political groups took part. The result was that the people of Niger entrusted me with the onerous task of leading them into the future. It is important to note that throughout the process the people of Niger demonstrated great maturity and behaved in an exemplary manner. Tens of thousands participated, travelling great distances and braving the extreme temperatures that are typical of Saharan Africa. They took part in a calm, peaceful and disciplined manner, always maintaining the very powerful feelings of brotherhood and of belonging to a single nation that unite them. Such conduct, which I am happy to praise once again here, earned the people of Niger the esteem, consideration and respect of the hundreds of international observers from all over the world who monitored the elections and attested to their fairness and openness. The people of Niger thus made its choice, deciding that democracy would be the framework of its future. This choice is, to be sure, in keeping with the changing times, in keeping with the direction of history. But we know that democratization is a long-term undertaking requiring patience and selflessness. The great democratic nations of today themselves travelled a long road before reaching their current stage of development. Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 7 Young nations such as Niger which have firmly chosen this path must overcome many obstacles and difficulties resulting from the weakness of their socio-economic structures and the international environment. For my country, one of the most important difficulties is the armed rebellion in the north, which poses grave risks to its unity. This inherited situation is in large part caused by the drought in the Sahel, which is making living conditions precarious for its nomadic peoples, who already face a most hostile and arid environment. The situation is a cause of great concern to Niger. Therefore, immediately it took office on 23 April 1993 the new Government knuckled down to finding ways and means to allow a fair and speedy solution to the problem to prevail in peace and brotherly trust. The Government has been helped in this undertaking by the valuable assistance of friendly countries, to which I extend our sincere thanks and deep gratitude. Thanks to these efforts, on 11 June 1993 the negotiations resulted in a three-month truce which was scrupulously respected by the parties and whose terms were recently renewed. There are encouraging signs of a speedy solution to this problem being found, and we intend to devote the needed energy to it. From this rostrum dedicated to peace I express the hope that all the sons of the Niger nation will work together to surmount their present difficulties and build a fraternal, democratic and prosperous Niger. The World Conference on Human Rights held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993 reaffirmed that the right to development is a basic human right. It affirmed that democracy, development and basic human rights are interdependent, reinforcing each other, and it stressed the overriding need to support the process of democratization in developing countries if we wish to ensure its success. Niger remains convinced that freedom and democracy need water to grow, just as fish need water to swim, and that they need to be buttressed by economic and social progress. Similarly, we are convinced that international peace and security cannot prevail in the world unless we take into account the vast mass of mankind’s legitimate yearnings for economic and social progress. Thus, development is a major challenge for the fledgling democracies. They must give an urgent and compelling reply to the question: how can we maintain and cultivate our faith? That is the ardent question of millions of men and women who went to the ballot box to vote and who, after the euphoria of victory, find themselves confronted with the harsh realities of their lives, the endless problems of survival. I know that the Assembly has a broad awareness of the countless difficulties that paralyse our peoples in their daily lives and impede their development. I know that the Assembly is fully informed about the unspeakable hardships our peoples have endured for decades and our thoughts about them. Indeed, for year after year and session after session, we have been constantly seized of such great topics as the deterioration in terms of trade, the buttressing of protectionism, the debt crisis, the continuing deterioration of the environment, the growing shrinkage of public development assistance, population growth, and reforms in structural adjustment. The listing of those great topics is but an imperfect summary of the fate and the enormous poverty that is the lot of a large portion of mankind. The economic situation of the African continent provides an edifying example of that state of affairs. Africa has been experiencing a widespread economic crisis of unprecedented severity, the result of a long period of economic recession. For years now, the continent has suffered from this prolonged recession and from a decline in living standards and a breakdown in the social fabric that is so widespread and so deep that many of the benefits gained in the early years of independence have now been irretrievably lost. Today, real per capita income has sunk below the 1980 level. The relationship between investment and gross national product continues to deteriorate. Our economies are marked by budgetary and trade imbalances and large import reductions, aggravated by the drop in the price of raw materials. According to some estimates, the ability of some countries to repay, based on exports, is diminishing. Thus, the debt-export relationship, which stood at 97 per cent in 1980, fell to 233 per cent in 1985 and stood at approximately 333 per cent in 1992. In any event, economic indicators give only an incomplete picture of the situation and do not enable us to visualize the consequences of drought, famine and the deterioration of the environment. The slump means that in some regions of Africa the standards of living, which had already been among the world’s harshest, have deteriorated 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session even further, reaching levels that are unacceptable for a modern civilization. Yet the Governments of those countries have recognized their own weaknesses and laid out areas of responsibility. They have courageously undertaken harsh reforms and adopted painful austerity measures for their people aimed at improving their economic and financial environment. For a number of reasons, these adjustment policies have not produced the expected results. I should point to two of them. First, there is the inadequacy of financial and material means, which has prevented us from achieving results and consolidating our gains. Secondly, there is our States’ burden of foreign indebtedness, which has reached an intolerable level and which continues to weigh ever more heavily upon them, worsening their economic and social difficulties. In those circumstances, how can we expect the poor countries to develop? Underdevelopment is making daily headway, and the list of countries eligible for the soft conditions of the International Development Association is growing. For that reason, from this rostrum Niger is calling upon the developed countries to give proof of greater solidarity by agreeing to a blanket cancellation of the debt of the least- developed countries. Niger had hoped to hear of this decision following the meeting of the Group of 7, but, unfortunately, the seven most-industrialized countries did not move to improve the repayment abilities of the debtor countries. Hence, we must curb this development, which has a negative impact on our countries. We must find ways and means to reverse present trends. We must act in order to restore hope to Africa, Asia and Latin America. Niger earnestly hopes that the first Copenhagen summit on social development will not be another meeting with no follow-up. Similarly, the international conference on population and development planned for 1994 should provide an opportunity for rich and poor to join efforts against hunger and malnutrition. Closer to home, in a few days an international conference on African development will be held on the initiative of the Government of Japan. Niger hopes that that meeting will come up with the necessary radical measures to solve the problems of the African continent. The world is now enjoying one of those propitious moments for peace that history occasionally provides us. Prospects today enable us to hope for a better future. The end of East-West antagonism has given rise to a powerful movement towards peace and has simultaneously awakened great hopes for sustainable development. Disarmament, as set forth in the United Nations Charter, must entail a system of collective security designed to avoid any excessive stockpiling of weapons. Indeed, it is of primary importance to establish confidence between neighbouring countries that share a similar destiny owing to the many ties joining their respective populations. It is also essential that States without weapons of mass destruction have guarantees that their territories will never serve as testing grounds. We believe it is essential that the resources thus freed be devoted to eradicating poverty, which still, at the end of the twentieth century, is creating conditions of shocking poverty intolerable to the human conscience. Another ground for hope is the recent United Nations Conference on Human Rights, which has declared the right to development to be a universal and inalienable right, an integral part of fundamental human rights. Hope was also created by the last Rio summit meeting, which focussed world attention on the threats to our environment, highlighted the existing interrelationship of development and the environment and thereby stressed the overriding need to ensure its preservation in the interests of present and future generations. Pledges to finance the programmes of Agenda 21 have already been recorded. Niger hopes that the fine hopes awakened in Rio will very soon be translated into concrete actions. That is why we welcome the creation of operational machinery such as the Commission on Sustainable Development and the intergovernmental committee to draft an international convention on desertification and drought. Niger, which has had to deal with the galloping and frightening encroachment of the desert, is following with close interest the work of this committee. Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 9 I have spoken at length about Niger and about our concerns and our hopes. However, I should not like to give the impression that the great problems of the world are matters of indifference to us. Notwithstanding the difficult times through which we are passing, Niger is attentive to what is going on in the rest of the world. We are encouraged by developments in the situation in South Africa, and we were relieved to hear the announcement that the first free, democratic elections there would be held on 27 April 1994. In this regard, we join in the appeal of our brother Nelson Mandela that the international sanctions imposed on South Africa be lifted. We believe that the adoption of such a measure would help to create in that country the atmosphere of détente and trust that is necessary if the emergence of a multiracial, egalitarian and democratic society is to be promoted. This would lead to South Africa’s entry into the African arena and its return to the concert of the civilized nations of the world. It was with real relief that we received the results of the Geneva negotiations between the various parties to the conflict in Liberia, which led to the signing of the Cotonou agreements in Benin. This outcome suggests that peace is beginning to return to that country. Niger supports action by the Economic Community of West African States with a view to securing respect for these agreements by all the parties concerned. We also welcome the talks in El Ayoun on Western Sahara. These talks open up new prospects for a final settlement of this conflict, which has lasted far too long. Now more than ever before, other regions of the African continent require our close attention and action. This is true of Angola, Mozambique and Somalia. Representatives may rest assured that Niger unreservedly supports all Security Council resolutions that promote the return of peace to this long-suffering country. I wish now to praise Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali’s dynamic work towards elimination of the numerous sources of tension and conflict in Africa and in the world at large. We wish to thank him, in particular, for the insights and thoughts contained in the report entitled 'An Agenda for Peace'. We have familiarized ourselves with the many wise proposals that the Secretary-General has put forward in that document. In particular, we share his views regarding preventive diplomacy. It was in this spirit that the Organization of African Unity, at its 29th summit meeting in Cairo, equipped itself with machinery for the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts in Africa. Away from the African continent, we welcome the signing by the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel, on 13 September 1993 in Washington, of the agreements on mutual recognition and on autonomy for the Gaza Strip and Jericho. We hope that the momentum for peace that is beginning in certain parts of the world will move to Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has suffered far too long. It is on this hopeful note that I shall conclude my statement. But first I should like, on behalf of Niger, to welcome the arrival in the great family of nations of Eritrea, the Principality of Monaco, the Principality of Andorra, the Czech Republic, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the Slovak Republic. Their presence among us strengthens the universality of the United Nations and testifies to the value of the Organization’s action in support of the widespread progress of mankind. It is always an honour and a great pleasure to address the General Assembly. My first task, a happy one, is to congratulate you, Sir, most warmly on your election as President of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. We know that in your hands this will be a session of accomplishments. Let me also thank your able predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, for his outstanding service during the forty-seventh session. I would next express our concern and sadness over the recent disastrous earthquake in India and extend to the Government and, especially, to the families affected our profound sympathies. Two years ago, when I last stood here, there was a sense of high expectation, for we were witnessing the drama of political changes to a new world. Many new nation States emerged from that process. We welcome the newest - and some of the smallest - Members of our global family who joined us this year: the Principality of Andorra, Eritrea, the Czech Republic, the Principality of Monaco, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the Slovak Republic. As a small State itself, Samoa is particularly pleased to add its welcome, assured of the contribution these new Members will make to our common effort. Let me also pay a tribute to the Secretary-General and express to His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali our deepest admiration and appreciation for the spirit of reform and quality of leadership he brings to the work of the Organization. With one voice we in this Hall have hailed the ending of East-West tensions. We are right to do so. It has brought about deep and positive changes. Now, as never before, the international community has real opportunities for cooperation and peace. In Washington, barely a month ago today, leaders of two great peoples, men of magnificent courage and foresight, seized such an opportunity for the Israelis and Palestinians. In our global village there is an imperative to secure a comprehensive, just and durable solution to the overall Arab-Israeli conflict. In turn, that peace effort needs to be able to draw sustenance - moral, political and financial - from the whole family of nations. Most warmly we applaud the courage and vision of this bold step. From our distance, and no matter how inadequate, I pledge to the people of Israel and to the Palestinians Samoa’s entire support. But the new opportunities for cooperation in this post- cold-war era are being severely challenged by conflicts that rage in many lands and by the human misery they cause. Tragedy and carnage are seemingly endless in Bosnia, in Somalia, and in territories of the former Soviet Union. In other areas, too - far too many - we witness daily the most shocking violations of the human person and wanton disregard for the rule of law. This year alone, there have been close to 25 substantial conflicts in the world. And war is not the only scourge. For we have not freed our world of hunger, poverty or illness. Millions of people have fled from internal strife and persecution, famine and natural disasters. Millions more are migrating for economic reasons. In my part of the world, island communities now live under the constant threat of ecological disasters. A rise in sea levels and destructive tropical cyclones are particular dangers. The evidence we have is that these are the global and adverse effects of induced climate change. They prey on the natural vulnerabilities of many lands and their peoples, and severely undermine the national livelihood and economic development efforts of many Governments. My purpose is not simply to catalogue misery and the negative, but rather to point to the vastness of our task. There is no scope for retreat - we must advance with resolve. The world cries out for responses and solutions. And the fact is, the world is now looking more and more to the United Nations. We do not, for a moment, delude 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session ourselves about the complexities of these conflicts or the depth of longstanding animosities - least of all, in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. But I am compelled to say that the horrors being perpetuated in Bosnia offend common decency and almost every principle for which this Organization stands. That is why we feel that the international community has not been swift or decisive enough in taking action to end the calculated brutality in Bosnia and avert the devastation of so much that is sacred in that land. We pray for the speediest possible settlement, one that is comprehensive and has realistic prospects for the lasting peace and economic prosperity of all concerned. There should be no reward for aggression. The grim outlook for many troubled areas of the world should not, however, cast a shadow over the hope typified by the Palestinian-Israeli peace accord. Cambodia is a high point in peacemaking, and we rejoice in this special accomplishment for the people of that ancient country and for the United Nations, as we do in the announcement in this Assembly by Nelson Mandela of the imminent demise of apartheid. South Africa’s move towards a multiracial and democratic society is the attainment of a dream we have all shared for so long. We pray for the peaceful success of the announced general elections in April 1994. We are indeed at a turning-point - a point at which we should now turn to the healing process. We must put behind us the divisiveness and acrimony which have characterized the debates and the decisions of past years. Almost every speaker in this debate has focused on peace-keeping and the unprecedented demands being made of the United Nations. Our support of United Nations peace-keeping operations is total, as is our acceptance of preventive diplomacy as fundamental to 'An Agenda for Peace'. We have no military resources or experience, and we have been able to assist only by way of our assessed contributions. But it is clear to us that failure to provide adequate financial and other resources undermines both the peace effort and the authority of the United Nations. It seems to be generally acknowledged that, in the space of some two years, the cost of United Nations peace- keeping has quadrupled to a level currently four times larger than the United Nations regular budget. In our humble opinion, peace-keeping at such a level cannot possibly be sustained without adequate and improved financing and financial management. Above all, peace-keeping objectives and mandates need to be clearly identified and managed. There is everything to be gained by the application of the principles of accountability, consistency and transparency. Peace-keeping at current levels has compounded the tragedy of war through the loss of United Nations staff and personnel. In the strongest terms, we condemn the attacks and deliberate targeting of United Nations peace-keeping forces wherever they occur. We support early and effective international measures and necessary arrangements within the United Nations system for the full protection of United Nations personnel and forces, as well as action against those who commit acts of violence against our messengers of peace. In all this, the Security Council is the vital link. We now have a proposal before the Assembly to take a closer look at the arrangements and strengthening of the Security Council. We also acknowledge the useful report the Secretary-General has sent us on the various views expressed. Our own concern is for the efficacy and effectiveness of the Council. So long as these are assured, Samoa would support the required reforms to the Security Council. But, no doubt, we should all take sufficient time to ponder these matters. In the wider aspect, we believe that no amount of force and no measure of peace-keeping can sustain peace and security without attention to the root causes. The general experience is that human misery, brought about by poverty and the denial of human and democratic rights, is the real and fundamental problem. We therefore uphold the belief expressed by many leaders from this rostrum that socio- economic development and democratic reforms areessential to the prevention of political and social crises. We think this should remain a major preoccupation of the United Nations. We believe deeply in the underlying importance of human rights in all United Nations activities. In this respect, we welcome the Declaration and Programme of Action produced by the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna and the acknowledgement in unquestionable terms of the universality of human rights. The results of the Vienna Conference constitute a significant advance in the promotion and protection of human rights, not least in the recognition that development has a true claim to be considered a human right. We agree with and support the proposal to establish a United Nations high commissioner for human rights. Such an office could serve as a strong focal point for coordination of the currently fragmented branches of the United Nations human rights system and could help to ensure that human Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 13 rights are integrated into the work of all United Nations programmes. The very basis of human rights is the right of peoples to determine their own future and governance. This is fundamental, and it is something very close to our hearts, given our experience and the political evolvement of our own State. The South Pacific Forum has continued to call on the metropolitan countries to take into account the wishes of the people in the Territories and to respect their right to self-determination. We welcome the ongoing dialogue between France and all parties in New Caledonia regarding the future of the Territory. The peaceful evolution towards self-determination in New Caledonia is in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Charter. Its attainment was made possible by the constructive intervention of the United Nations decolonization Committee and by the willingness of the Government of France, the parties in New Caledonia and the South Pacific Forum to show restraint to give full consideration to each other’s concerns and sensitivities. What we see in New Caledonia today stands as a testament to the cooperative spirit characteristic of the Pacific region and as a true example of peaceful and preventive diplomacy at work. At the same time, we acknowledge and respect the views and interests of those Territories that wish to continue with the status quo. Peace, stability, security and the preservation of our environment are crucial to the South Pacific region. Our commitment to these objectives is unwavering, and Samoa, together with its regional partners, will continue to call for a permanent end to nuclear testing, to the dumping of chemical and toxic wastes and to the transportation of these materials in our waters. The South Pacific Forum countries have continued to urge the remaining nuclear-power States to heed our concerns and to accede to the Protocols of the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty. That Treaty is the paramount symbol of the region’s strong feeling about and commitment to a nuclear-free environment. We are encouraged by recent indications from some of these States that they will reconsider their current positions on the Treaty and on other nuclear-related issues that are of concern to the region. Samoa is particularly pleased about the extension of the nuclear-testing moratorium. However, we are deeply distressed to have learned last week of a breach of that moratorium. I have cause to believe that substantial numbers in the Assembly share our concern and our earnest prayer that no further tests will be carried out and that other nuclear Powers will not resume their nuclear-testing programmes. It is our dearest hope that such testing will one day cease - permanently. We also urge all Member States - the nuclear Powers in particular - to work towards the early conclusion of a comprehensive test ban treaty. We welcome the unique opportunity offered by the end of the cold war to focus and develop comprehensive-nuclear- disarmament initiatives. We stand ready to do what we can in support of these. We should say, however, that the prospect of the proliferation of nuclear weapons and - worse - of their acquisition by unfriendly parties is of major concern to us, as, of course, to the world community as a whole. It underscores the urgent need for the control, reduction and eventual elimination of these deadly weapons. The Non-Proliferation Treaty, which is a vital part of the disarmament process must be extended indefinitely when it comes up for review in 1995. We look to the nuclear-weapon States to take the lead in the nuclear-disarmament process and, at the same time, to illustrate with concrete action their full commitment to our collective goals and objectives. The South Pacific region cannot continue to be a testing ground for nuclear devices; or to be a dumping ground for chemical wastes; or to be exposed to contamination by toxic wastes and other environmentally threatening substances. Environmental security is crucial to Samoa and other countries of the South Pacific. The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio in 1992, provided us with an opportunity to put our global house in order - an occasion of promise, of rising hopes. The setting of Agenda 21 and the establishment of the Commission on Sustainable Development are only first steps. Implementation is the difficult task - the true test. Like other places, our small island States and low-lying atolls face a host of constraints. Isolated and ecologically fragile, small island States like my own are amongst the most vulnerable to external economic, trade and climatic factors. Without international cooperation, and without an integrated approach, the outlook is not promising. The Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States - to be held in Barbados in April 1994 - will provide a first opportunity to implement Agenda 21 and to reaffirm commitments made in Rio. We firmly believe that international attention, focused at next year’s global conference, will provide valuable guidance 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session towards a sustainable-development effort worldwide. It seems to us that if there is failure to secure sustainable development for small island States, there will be no real chance of success elsewhere. The work of the Preparatory Committee remains incomplete. But the stakes are too high for inconclusiveness, so a resumed preparatory session before the Barbados Conference is essential. I should say that our call for international cooperation is fully matched by our resolve to do what is necessary and possible at the domestic level. As a country, we acknowledge and accept primary responsibility for our environment and development. To this end, we have completed a national environment-management plan, have put in place the necessary legislative framework and have taken steps to adhere to the appropriate international Conventions. In all of this, we have had the fullest cooperation of the South Pacific Regional Environmental Programme - an organization established by the Pacific region and partner countries to coordinate not only national and regional activities but also the region’s participation in world-wide initiatives on the environment. This underlines our basic belief that the total efforts of all nations, acting responsibly and in concert, will be crucial if we are adequately to protect our environment and our planet. I should note the general satisfaction of my delegation with the world-wide debate, which is now under way, about the future of development - and, thus, about our common future. The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development was a special landmark. A few months ago, contrary to predictions, the Vienna World Conference on Human Rights registered important accomplishments. Next year, we shall see the particularly crucial Conference on Population and Development; thereafter, the Conference on women, and then the social-development Summit. Yesterday, we heard Papua New Guinea’s initiative on opportunity and participation. We consider this a pertinent proposal, and that it is an important element in the overall effort to involve citizens and to enhance, in particular, the economies of developing countries. These global conferences and initiatives will map out new priorities and courses of action requiring from States and ordinary citizens the highest degree of commitment and cooperation. Meantime, we will need to concentrate on strengthening and revitalizing our Organization if we are to respond efficiently and effectively to present and future priorities. To this purpose, Samoa supports all remedial reforms to the United Nations system to ensure optimum use of scarce resources. Next year has been declared, by the Assembly, the International Year of the Family. In two years’ time, the United Nations will mark its fiftieth anniversary. This gives us all reason to move ahead with our work, resolved to improve the condition of our world and the well-being of our global family. On behalf of the Government and people of the Republic of Suriname, I take great pleasure in welcoming you, Sir, to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. You bring to your high office great experience as a skilled diplomat, experience which will be useful in this epoch-making period for the Organization. Indeed, your election is a fitting tribute to you personally and an honour to your country. We are therefore most gratified to see a skilled and a distinguished son of our good neighbour, Guyana, presiding over our deliberations. We thank your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, for the excellent manner in which he conducted the affairs of the last session of the General Assembly. We also take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts in consolidating international peace and security. Before proceeding, I should like to express the feelings of sincere sympathy of the Government and people of the Republic of Suriname to the Government and people of the Republic of India on the sad occasion of the tragic earthquake disaster in which so many lives were lost. I appeal to the international community to render the necessary effective support to India to alleviate the sorrow and suffering of the people involved. I should like to take this opportunity to add to what numerous previous speakers have already said on behalf of the many people living in areas whose development difficulties, and their consequences, do not receive enough attention, because of the high priority given to issues of international peace and security. I am referring to developing areas that risk being forgotten, though they are inhabited by people who truly pursue welfare, well-being and prosperity, and seek true participation in the world community, where the principle of power will ultimately make way for the principle of interdependence within the international system. Countries in the developed North usually succeed in strengthening their mutual relations in political and economic areas, and they are becoming increasingly interdependent. Thanks to a greater environmental awareness, we are becoming increasingly conscious that North and South depend strongly on one another. This interdependence, unfortunately, has not yet evolved sufficiently with regard to political and economic questions, and the views held by the North and the South on many essential issues, such as the alleviation of poverty and economic development, are still strongly divergent. Moreover, the interests of the North in many ways still prevail over those of the South. In particular, the financial and technological dependence of the South on the North causes serious divergences. The discriminatory regulations that make it difficult for the South to gain access to international markets and the ever-changing conditions that make the flow of funds to the South almost impossible are, inter alia, factors that make the gap with the North almost unbridgeable. In the past, agreements on multilateral and international cooperation, such as the International Development Strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade, the Cartagena Commitment, Agenda 21 and the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, have been approved by the international community. Those commitments constitute a solid basis for strengthening global partnership for development. However, various programmes could not be implemented, and much still remains to be done to enhance multilateral cooperation. Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 19 Like many developing countries, Suriname has a serious shortage of external funds for its development process, despite its relative wealth of mineralogical and biological resources. Certainly, we have succeeded, through maximum mobilization of our national forces, in coping with the political crisis that dominated the country in the 1980s, and Suriname has been able to join the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean that have managed to give meaning to the process of democratization. It is our joint responsibility to see that this momentum is preserved and that the euphoria of the victory of democracy over dictatorship, particularly in our region, does not have adverse effects. Without broad-based development in our countries we shall not be able to provide democracy with a sound basis. For the democratic ideal is not an isolated political phenomenon, but one that is closely interwoven with the whole of the social and economic reality in our part of the world. Without alleviation of the pressing debt burden, without an appropriate recompense for our most important export products, without credit facilities for the necessary production inputs, without an expansion of export possibilities and without the financial support of the richer countries, endeavours to realize a stable democratic constitutional State will prove to be in vain. We have noticed - not without concern - that in their attitudes towards developing countries some developed countries ignore the specific circumstances of those countries, which have fallen seriously behind in their development. The political crisis which Suriname went through in the 1980s, and Suriname’s related isolation from the important donors, caused a serious decline in the economic development of the country, which was further aggravated by the drastic reduction of the country’s income from its main export products - more specifically, alumina and aluminium. In order to meet the resulting financial, economic and monetary crisis, we drafted a structural adjustment programme, which is now being implemented. We are aware that, despite the many theories and analyses in this field, there exists no blueprint for the resolution of economic crises that can be applied smoothly inasmuch as the object of adjustment is a very complex reality. My Government is also aware that achieving economic recovery and furthering development while at the same time safeguarding political stability is no easy task and must be approached quite prudently. It is a process which will entail increased poverty, and can lead to a serious disruption of social life in the short term. Unfortunately, the divergent views held by Suriname’s authorities and by the donors on the proper way to implement the adjustment programme puts great pressure on the space necessary for a policy which focuses primarily on the well-being of the nation as a whole. The failure, in many countries, of stringent adjustment programmes undoubtedly relates to a perspective which fails to recognize sufficiently the reality of developing countries at the present time and ignores the real aspirations of humankind. In such a state of affairs, dialogue between North and South is difficult and strained. The North itself has succeeded in developing a number of mechanisms to solve differences, in which the consistent application of the principles of equality and mutual respect commands our attention. Such consistent use of these principles could also, perhaps, open the way to fruitful dialogue with the South. In 1992 Suriname and the Kingdom of the Netherlands signed a Framework Treaty. This Treaty, together with the 1975 Treaty, provides a basic framework for substantial support from the Kingdom of the Netherlands to the developmental aspirations of the Republic of Suriname. It is with pleasure that we can announce here that, within the framework of these treaties, positive cooperation was realized last year, which contributed substantially to the successes in consolidating the restored democracy in Suriname, strengthening the constitutional State and protecting human rights, as well as in establishing and maintaining peace after the end of the armed struggle in the interior of the country. However, some questions have been raised as to the motives for this cooperation in the light of the recent attitude of the Treaty partner regarding support for the recovery of our country’s economy. Despite many efforts on the part of the international community, the Uruguay Round negotiations of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), which could provide the framework for a comprehensive and sound basis for future trade relations, are still ongoing. The Government of Suriname looks forward to an early and balanced conclusion of the Uruguay Round with a view to promoting the establishment of a just and equitable multilateral trading system. 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Recession in the world economy, stringent budgetary policies in donor countries, trade problems and domestic factors in a number of countries have dampened the hope in many developing countries for a steady flow of development aid. Concurrently, new claims on external financial resources are being made, so that allocations for future aid can further cloud the outlook for multilateral aid. The general trend at present is a marked increase in contributions to peace-keeping operations and a clear decline in funds for operational activities. The annual peace-keeping budget has increased fivefold, and is expected to be $3,673,000,000 for 1993, while voluntary contributions to the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Fund for Population Activities and the United Nations Children’s Fund have declined by about 10 per cent. In one of his reports, the Secretary-General noted that very serious problems caused by civil unrest and other sources of strife affect an increasing number of people who are often among the most vulnerable groups of the population, placing particularly difficult demands on United Nations operational activities. Failure to address issues such as the alleviation of poverty, underdevelopment, unemployment, illiteracy and the threat to the environment because of a lack of financial resources can cause social tensions. This, in turn, can generate social disintegration and, eventually, the destabilization of the political system. Hence, an agenda that tends to reflect mainly international peace and security problems is not constructive. More and more it is recognized that favourable economic and social conditions can help strengthen peace and security. Therefore, we favour a programme based on a combination of political, economic and social factors together with global security. The social crisis of the 1990s may be considered a result of, inter alia, world-wide growing poverty, particularly in the developing countries, unemployment and social upheavals. It is therefore gratifying to note that preparations are being made for a World Summit for Social Development in 1995. It is our hope that the core issues of the Summit directed towards the strengthening of the process of overall social development will be addressed during the preparatory process and that agreement can be reached, in a spirit of consensus, on matters of such vital human importance. Agenda 21, adopted during the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro, and the subsequent establishment of the Commission on Sustainable Development, are important guides for the international community in achieving sustainable development. UNCED also underscored the need to provide developing countries with adequate resources and to acknowledge the urgency of making technology, especially environmentally sound technology, available to that end. However, the progress achieved to date in obtaining new and additional financial resources is disappointing. Hence, we welcome the Commission’s decision to establish two working groups to tackle the two issues. My Government supports a timely and strict implementation of the Agreement signed by President Aristide and General Raoul Cedras, containing arrangements made with a view to reaching a political solution to the Haitian crisis. The United Nations and the Organization of American States are playing a major role in implementing the Agreement reached at Governors Island in New York. We are deeply distressed by the recent developments in Haiti, which could jeopardize the return of President Aristide. We strongly appeal to the military leaders in Haiti to uphold their promises and to create the atmosphere of calm required for the full application of the Agreement. My delegation has always stated that the principles of the United Nations Charter and the relevant United Nations resolutions, particularly those of the Security Council, provide the best concrete basis for the achievement of a comprehensive, just and durable peace in the Middle East. We are therefore moved that the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) have finally started a negotiating process which could create the conditions for peace. The Agreement that was mutually recognized and signed is a courageous step in that direction. We congratulate both Israel and the PLO on this historic deed and we appeal to the international community to use this momentum to bring peace and prosperity to the whole region. My delegation welcomes the progress made so far by the multilateral party negotiating process to a negotiated settlement and national elections in South Africa. A political settlement will lead to the end of apartheid and establish a new, united, non-racial and democratic South Africa. The destructive character of apartheid has caused so much harm to the people that it is only fair that in this new era, every effort must be made to overcome social and economic disparities so that peace and stability can be established. We therefore expect the international community to fully and generously support the new South African Government with assistance for the reconstruction and development of the nation. Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 21 Like many others in the world, my country is troubled by the continuing horrifying events taking place in Angola and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We cannot let the suffering and degradation continue. The bloodshed, hatred and hostilities must end now, for the people concerned have the right to live in peace. World-wide drug abuse and trafficking remain a matter of deep concern, not only in our region but in the world as a whole. Despite measures and strategies geared towards the elimination of drugs, it is sad to note that drugs can be obtained for illicit purposes virtually everywhere in the world. This is, indeed, an unfortunate development, since it was expected that after the Global Programme of Action was adopted, together with the Comprehensive Multidisciplinary Outline of Future Activities in Drug Abuse Control, the situation would improve substantially. We thus support the view that efforts against drug abuse and trafficking must continue in a balanced and concerted manner. The end of the East-West confrontation has resulted in a slowdown of the arms race and reduced the threat of armed conflict. We regret to observe, however, that the spread of conventional arms continues to take on a dangerous magnitude, while at the same time armed conflicts are increasing, causing the tragic loss of numerous innocent human lives. Ongoing conflicts have already resulted in more than 100 million refugees world wide, 30 million displaced persons and hundreds of millions of unexploded mines. It is time to recognize that trade in conventional arms should be drastically curbed. In the context of global security, the question of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction continues to be an important one. My delegation is in favour of a universally applicable and internationally verifiable comprehensive test-ban treaty. Such a treaty would strengthen international security and would represent a further step towards nuclear disarmament. The set of principles contained in the report of the Secretary-General 'An Agenda for Peace' provides a comprehensive framework for the maintenance of interna- tional peace and security. My delegation follows with keen interest the activities of the United Nations in the fields of preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping and post-conflict peace-building. We are aware that at present some 70 areas of conflict or potential conflict exist throughout the world. In this respect, we welcome the involvement of regional organizations that can render valuable assistance in the maintenance of international peace and security, including the peaceful settlement of disputes. According to the Charter of the United Nations, Member States have entrusted to the Security Council the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. The balance of political and economic power in today’s world has drastically changed. Consequently, the premise that brought about the structure of the Security Council is no longer valid. The general debate last year on the issue of equitable representation and an increase in membership of the Security Council, which led to the adoption of resolution 47/62, can, it is hoped, contribute to a more equitable geographical representation in the Council and to enhancing the democratization process of the work of the Council by making its deliberations more transparent. The expectations in the developing world that the post-cold-war era would create new development perspectives have not yet materialized. However, the increasing pauperization of large parts of the world demands the taking of urgent and decisive action to offer those people prospects for change and improvement in their daily living conditions. To this end, our Organization will have to strengthen its prominent role as a factor for development and will have to make the appropriate mechanisms effectively operational. It is important for all Member States to provide the United Nations with legitimate room for that purpose. Suriname will, to the extent possible, make its contribution. On behalf of the delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, I should like to extend to Ambassador Insanally warm congratulations on his election to the presidency of this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. We regard highly the vast efforts made and positive achievements attained by His Excellency the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, in his position of lofty responsibility, towards the cause of peace, international security, development and cooperation among nations. In April of this year it was with warmth and high esteem, and moved by a desire to enhance Viet Nam’s cooperation with the United Nations, that our Government and people welcomed the Secretary-General in our country. We wish to congratulate the new Members of our United Nations family. In the year since the previous session of our General Assembly, the world has offered us a chiaroscuro picture of opportunities intermingled with challenges, of hopes mixed with anxieties. The threat of a global war of annihilation continues to recede, and we are witnessing an increasing trend towards dialogue and cooperation, in new forms and through new mechanisms, in different regions and on a world-wide scale. The progress towards restoration of peace in a number of places, especially in Cambodia and the 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Middle East, brings glad tidings to the whole world and demonstrates that in our day and age it is still possible, through peaceful negotiations, to settle conflicts that were once fierce and protracted. However, humanity’s conscience and reason remain profoundly disturbed by the bloody conflicts which are inflicting death and pain on peoples and provoking regional and international instability, by potentially explosive tendencies to increase armaments in certain parts of the world, by the widening gap between the developed and the developing world and by other important and pressing problems of a global nature, such as demographic explosion, environmental degradation, dangerous diseases, transnational crime, and so on. In an unstable world whose evolution is fraught with complexities, the United Nations, while taking account of the direct responsibility of nations concerned, is facing major challenges in the discharge of its primary responsibility, namely the restoration and preservation of peace and stability. Never before has the United Nations been present and active in so many hot spots across the continents as it is today. In this regard the Secretary-General has given us a comprehensive approach to the problem in his report 'An Agenda for Peace'. (A/47/277) It is the earnest desire of the people of Viet Nam that peace, closely linked with national independence and sovereignty, be primary components of the new world order. We endorse the view expressed in the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization (A/48/1) that 'States and their sovereignty are increasingly recognized as indispensable building-blocks of international order and problem-solving'. (A/48/1, para. 13) Respect for the national independence, sovereignty and identity of each country, the strengthening of international cooperation, and the settlement of disputes through peaceful negotiations and mutual accommodation, considering peace, stability and cooperation to be the fundamental, long-term interest of each State and of the international community: all these are guiding principles in inter-State relations, principles that the United Nations and its Member States must respect. The Security Council is vested with the primary responsibility for the activities of the United Nations in respect of the restoration and safeguarding of peace. This mission, however, devolves not solely on the Security Council but on all nations. Member States should therefore have a say in determining the objectives and guiding principles for decisions and actions undertaken by the Security Council with regard to international peace and security. Only by so doing can the United Nations truly be a universal Organization and a common instrument for the community of nation-States. The principles of respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States, of non-coercion and non-interference in the internal affairs of States, of attainment of the consent of the parties concerned, and perseverance in the settlement of disputes through peaceful negotiations: such are the principles that should govern the Security Council’s decisions. Today the world is witnessing miraculous advances in science and technology. In that world, however, some hundred countries and with them billions of human beings are in danger of falling behind in the general advancement of mankind, while the wealth and property of the world are concentrated in the hands of a few developed countries. The gap in development levels is steadily widening. This, together with the accumulated external debt burden, has put developing countries at a constant disadvantage in North-South economic and trade relations. This reality carries potential challenges to security and stability, both regional and international. We should therefore fully comprehend, now more than ever, the interrelation between peace, security and development. We support the proposal for the United Nations to work out a comprehensive and effective 'agenda for development', considering the implementation of such an agenda through enhanced resources as a fundamental factor for the establishment of a new, sound and equitable world order. Development programmes of the United Nations and assistance from highly developed countries to developing countries, especially poor countries, are undertakings which do not benefit one side only; rather, they are necessary for the overall stability and development of the world and the various regions as well as of each State. We are of the view that attaching political conditions to development assistance and cooperation runs counter to the principle of equality and mutual benefit of wholesome international relations. On the other hand, poor countries hope that the rapidly increasing cost of peace-keeping operations will not affect the ability of the United Nations in the field of development cooperation, and they wish to see balanced attention on the part of the United Nations to both the Agenda for Peace and that for development. One important direction of the United Nations activities that reflect the broadening attention given in this regard by Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993 13 the international community is the promotion of democracy and human rights. The World Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna last June clearly pointed out the close relationship between democracy and human rights. In our view, one should accord equal importance to, and promote concurrently, democracy within each country and democracy in inter-State relations. Respect for human rights must go together with respect for equality among States as well as between the United Nations and Member States. The United Nations itself needs to reform its organization and mode of operation so as to ensure democracy, justice and equality for all Member States. An enlargement in the membership of the Security Council to enhance its representativeness, the promotion of greater transparency in the work of this body of authority within the United Nations system, the strengthening of the effectiveness of the General Assembly, the improvement of the relationship among the United Nations organs, together with perfecting the mechanisms and streamlining the machinery to ensure better efficiency and effectiveness of the United Nations activities - all these are urgent demands facing us as we are approaching the fiftieth anniversary of this Organization. Together with many other countries - member States of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, in particular - Viet Nam considers human rights to be primarily the concern and interest of each country, the pursuit of democracy and human rights in one country to be, first and essentially, the responsibility of that country and nation. At the same time, States may cooperate with one another in the promotion of democracy and human rights on the basis of respect for national independence and sovereignty, the right to self-determination, the right of a nation to choose its own path of development, in accordance with the purposes and principles set forth in the United Nations Charter, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the two basic International Covenants on Human Rights. We consider using imposed standards of human rights and democracy as preconditions for inter-State cooperation to be a manifestation of inequality and lack of democracy in international relations. The Vienna Conference identified areas of agreement and at the same time revealed outstanding differences of views on human rights. We hope that, proceeding from the commitment to the common cause of human rights protection and promotion, from the recognition of both the universality and the specificity of human rights, countries will engage in a dialogue in a spirit of mutual respect with a view to achieving a unity of purpose in a diversity of ways and means of implementation in the field of human rights. The Vienna Conference also put forth recommendations aimed at consolidating and strengthening the role and effectiveness of the United Nations in regard to human rights. To achieve this end, it is our view that we should make full use of the relevant existing machinery and mechanisms of the United Nations and enhance their efficiency and effectiveness. Taking account of the need to streamline its machinery, the Organization must carefully scrutinize and weigh any initiative for the establishment of new mechanisms. Viet Nam is a country that has lived through protracted, devastating wars in which the use of millions of tons of bombs, ammunition and toxic chemicals has caused destruction of the environment, misery, loss of life and serious consequences for several generations now. It has been undertaking a process of renewal, overcoming many difficulties and challenges to achieve stability, development and integration into the international community. Located in the most dynamic region for development in the world, Viet Nam has both assets and difficulties, opportunities and challenges stemming from its specific historical circumstances, natural conditions and its geopolitical and geoeconomic position. We are now facing the acute challenge of how to overcome, soon, our state of poverty and underdevelopment, and join the mainstream of progress in the region. The only way is to tap all domestic resources, which, first and foremost, means bringing into full play the dynamism and creativity of every Vietnamese, and at the same time expanding international cooperation in friendship with all countries based on the principle of mutual respect for national independence and sovereignty, and on equality and mutual benefit. This imperative need impels us to initiate and step up efforts towards renewal in every sphere of social life; at its core, this is focused on a market economy and on perfecting the rule of law in a State that is truly of the people, by the people and for the people. The process of renewal focuses on the economic field with a view to developing a multisectoral economy operating under the market mechanism, to establishing an economic system that is open both domestically and externally, and to improving the functions and management patterns of the State. Under embargo conditions, and at a point where sources of major assistance from the countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) are no longer available, the renewal process has helped Viet Nam’s economy overcome the most difficult hurdle and end the recession, reduce and maintain control over inflation, achieve average growth in gross domestic product of 7.2 per cent 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session during the past three years, 1991 to 1993, accumulate initially modest levels of domestic savings, and gradually improve the life of the people. Viet Nam has been attracting increasing foreign direct investment and development assistance. On behalf of the Government and the people of Viet Nam, I should like to express our sincere thanks to various agencies of the United Nations system, such as the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United Nations Population Fund, the World Food Programme, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific and others, as well as many Governments and non-governmental organizations in the world, for maintaining, resuming and increasing development and humanitarian assistance to Viet Nam. We highly appreciate the timely support extended by the Governments of France, Japan, Sweden and other countries, together with the international financial institutions, for helping Viet Nam settle arrears with the International Monetary Fund, thereby creating a breakthrough initiation of credit assistance from international monetary and financial institutions; such assistance is absolutely essential for building up socio-economic infrastructures in Viet Nam. Our appreciation goes also to the many companies, from nearly 50 countries, that have come to Viet Nam for investment and business cooperation at this initial stage of our development. In our journey towards a dynamic and sound market economy that is well-managed at the macroeconomic level, and achieving healthy, rapid and sustainable growth aimed at achieving the objectives of a prosperous nation, a strong country and a civilized and equitable society, we still face numerous difficulties, weaknesses and challenges. At this juncture, increased assistance from the United Nations, international financial institutions and non-governmental organizations, as well as cooperation and support from various countries, is extremely valuable and meaningful. On the basis of the fundamental approach of having a socio-economic development strategy up to the year 2000 in which the human person constitutes both the end and the driving force, Viet Nam is simultaneously carrying out economic reforms and a step-by-step renovation of the political system in order to promote the rights of people and citizens’ rights, both economic and political, cultural and social. Strenuous efforts have been made to establish the State’s rule of law through the promulgation of the amended Constitution of 1992, the election of the new National Assembly Legislature, an enhancement of the power and responsibilities of the elected organs and a stepping up of the law-making process. In accordance with our nation’s tradition of humaneness, we stand for abolishing prejudice and vengeance, and for looking towards the future. Those previously in the ranks of our adversaries have all been freed and given full citizens’ rights. All Vietnamese who wish for a prosperous and strong Viet Nam, and who respect the laws, will find a place in the great unity of the nation, even if they are of different political opinions. The process of renovation and the policy of universal national unity constitute the prime mover for development in the country and at the same time bring into full play the potential of Vietnamese overseas to contribute to the construction of their former homeland. Viet Nam has concurrently deployed a foreign policy of openness, diversifying and multilateralizing its relations of friendly cooperation with all other countries, thus creating a favourable international environment for our country’s renovation and development. In that spirit, Viet Nam has actively contributed to the peaceful solution of the Cambodian question and has implemented the Paris Agreements and cooperated with the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia. We have established relations of good-neighbourliness with Cambodia in the hope that Cambodia will become a country of peace, independence, neutrality and non-alignment that entertains friendly relations with other countries. We wish to congratulate the new Government in Cambodia, and stand ready, together with that Government, to settle, jointly, any questions of mutual concern. We express the wish that the Cambodian Government and the United Nations will take effective measures to protect Vietnamese residents living peacefully in Cambodia, and to Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993 15 ensure their safety and the same rights and benefits as are enjoyed by people from other countries who are resident in Cambodia. Viet Nam is sparing no effort in building up friendship and cooperation with neighbouring countries and is persevering in its policy of peaceful negotiations to find satisfactory solutions to border and territorial disputes at sea as well as on land. While working for solutions, all concerned parties should refrain from doing anything that further complicates the situation and from the use or threat of use of force to settle disputes. The fact that relations between the United States and Viet Nam have not yet been normalized 20 years after the end of the war is not normal nor is it in consonance with the trend of our time. With the desire to close the book on the past and to look to the future, Viet Nam wishes and stands ready to normalize relations with the United States on the basis of equality and mutual respect and without preconditions. This would meet the aspirations and interests of the peoples of the two countries, and would serve peace, stability, cooperation and development in the region and throughout the world. Viet Nam still has tens of thousands of people missing since the war, and their remains have yet to be found; and millions of war victims need help. We are deeply sympathetic towards the sentiments of American families whose loved ones went missing in the Viet Nam war, and have cooperated, are cooperating and will continue to cooperate actively with the American Government and people on the missing-in-action question. We consider this a purely humanitarian issue. I am confident that the goodwill and conscience of the American and Vietnamese peoples, together with the immediate and long-term interests of the two countries, will soon prevail over the existing obstacles so that relations between the two countries can be normalized. Allow me to conclude my statement with the hope that the United Nations will rise to the challenge of seizing the opportunities and surmounting the challenges so that it truly becomes an institution to which all Member States entrust their aspirations and in which their views are heard and their actions coordinated. For its part, Viet Nam, in its efforts towards renewal, development and integration with the international community, will always be a positive factor for peace, national independence and social progress, and a sincere and reliable cooperation partner in the region as well as in the world. Let me begin by congratulating you, Sir, upon your election to the presidency of the forty- eighth session of the General Assembly. I feel particularly privileged and honoured to address the General Assembly on behalf of a people that struggled for half a century to regain its fundamental human and national rights and that, despite the outright military victory it won, took the unprecedented step of organizing a free and fair referendum so as to join the community of independent States on the basis of its freely expressed wish and on solid legal grounds. As I speak here today, I cannot help but remember the appeals we sent year in and out to the General Assembly and the States Members of the United Nations, describing the plight of our people and asking for legitimate sympathy, support and recognition. We appealed to the United Nations not only in its capacity as a representative of the international community, but also because of its special responsibility to Eritrea. For it was the United Nations that decided in 1950, at the beginning of the cold war, to deny the colonized people of Eritrea their right to self-determination, thereby sacrificing their national and human rights on the altar of the strategic interests of the super-Powers. In adopting that resolution, the United Nations affirmed that it remained an international instrument which the General Assembly could be seized of at any time. But for the next 41 years, as a brutal war of aggression was conducted against the Eritrean people, initially with the active support of the United States and later with a much worse and massive involvement of the Soviet Union, and despite the repeated appeals of the Eritrean people, the United Nations refused to raise its voice in the defence of a people whose future it had unjustly decided and whom it had pledged to protect. Not once in 41 years did Eritrea, scene of the longest war in Africa, and victim of some of the grossest violations of human rights, figure in the agenda of the United Nations. This deafening silence pained our people. It also gave a free hand to the aggressors, thereby prolonging our suffering and increasing the sacrifices we had to make. But it neither shook our resolve nor undermined our belief in the justness of our cause and the inevitability of our victory. As an Eritrean proverb says: 'The rod of truth may become thinner but it cannot be broken.' Indeed, justice has finally prevailed. This is a source of hope and happiness not only for the Eritrean people, but for all those who cherish justice and peace. While we rejoice at the peace and freedom that have been attained and the promising prospects that lie ahead, we are confronted with the reality of a devastated country and population. The extent of the physical and economic destruction visited on our country, in terms of infrastructure, industry, agriculture, education and health services, as well as the more painful human losses - the death of over 150,000 people, the exile of a quarter of the population, Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 9 massive displacement, and over 100,000 disabled and orphaned - are appalling by any standard, especially when measured against the meagre resources and small size of our population. Formidable as our problems are, we are confident that we can and will rebuild our devastated country and provide a decent life for ourselves. It is our firm conviction that outside assistance, no matter how generous, cannot of itself solve our problems. Ultimately, deliverance will depend on our own efforts, on the mobilization and efficient utilization of our resources. But as we start to clear the rubble and pick up the pieces after three decades of war and destruction, we find that our resources are too limited for the awesome task of rehabilitation and jump-starting our economy. We cannot help but ask: Will the United Nations and the international community come to our assistance this time or will our pleas once again go unheeded? At this critical juncture of its history, Eritrea needs and deserves international support and assistance, not only because the United Nations and the international community bear special responsibility for Eritrea, but also because it is a test case for the United Nations 'Agenda for Peace' and the whole concept of peace-building. Eritrea has not only secured peace and stability; it has made the rare achievement of establishing warm relations of cooperation with its former enemy, Ethiopia. And it is tackling the task of reconstruction with popular support and participation, with commitment and determination, with sound and flexible policies, with prudent and efficient utilization of limited resources, and with a demonstrated readiness to promote regional understanding and cooperation. Unfortunately, the response of the United Nations and the international community so far has not been encouraging. Though the active involvement of the United Nations in the referendum was generally commendable, United Nations contributions to the Eritrean referendum - one of the most successful electoral processes in which the United Nations has ever been involved - was less than $2 million, a meagre sum compared to the tens of millions of dollars devoted to similar exercises, many of which were dismal failures. Similarly, the response of the international community to the programme for the repatriation of half a million Eritrean refugees from the Sudan fell far short of reasonable expectations, and the Government has found no alternative but to start the programme regardless of funds and expected problems. Eritrea has also embarked on a crucial demobilization programme - it has demobilized close to one third of its 90,000-man army in the first phase - without United Nations or other contribution. It had to cut back some of its rehabilitation and development projects and borrow money to finance this first phase. In our efforts at mobilizing international resources, we have repeatedly been met with such excuses as 'a lack of funds', 'competing demands', 'more pressing priorities' and 'donor fatigue'. There well may be some truth in all of this. And we are appreciative of the constraints and commendable efforts of some donors. But, I believe, we cannot and should not hesitate to acknowledge that, by and large, the international aid programme is deeply flawed, unfair, unjust and ill-structured to respond to the vital needs of recipient communities. Assistance and the amounts of assistance appear to be decided, not on the basis of need or the capacity to put the assistance to good use, but - even after the proclamation of the end of the cold war - on the basis of the interests and agendas of donors. Moreover, the international community tends to be more responsive to putting out fires than to preventing them, and once the fires are put out it often turns its back on the smouldering combustible remains. One of the most disquieting features of the present international situation is the marginalization of the entire continent of Africa. Every indicator shows that Africa is sliding back and being left behind, which results in intolerable poverty, suffering and desperation for millions of its people. There is no denying that the onus of the responsibility for these problems falls first and foremost on us Africans. But, I believe, the international community must squarely face the fact that it also bears responsibility for Africa’s plight. Many of the dictators who have sown so much havoc and suffering were in fact brought to power and sustained during the years of the cold war by sections of the international community. Perhaps more significant is the fact that the now discredited economic policies and failed projects were generally designed and approved by international donors and implemented under the direction of an army of foreign experts and advisers. In our present highly interlinked world, Africa’s marginalization, the poverty and desperation of its people, of its youth, cannot be walled in within the continent’s boundaries. They are bound to threaten global prosperity and stability. The frustration and resentment that continue to swell and may well explode must be defused in time. Once again Africa must seize its own destiny. Its people and leaders must tap deep into their human and material resources and come up with the wisdom, strategy and commitment to lift Africa from the mire. But as they set out on this difficult road the international community needs to come to their assistance, not with hand-outs that only 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session increase dependency, not with the familiar packages and projects that have gone down the drain, not with preconceived formulas and attitudes of 'We know what is best', but in a spirit of partnership dedicated to helping Africa to stand on its own feet and contribute to the enrichment of human life and the protection of the environment. Of course, not everything in Africa has been bleak. Just as gross human failure is not limited to Africa - witness events in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the former Soviet Union and elsewhere - Africa has its share of positive and uplifting developments and successes. We are following with much interest the determined and promising efforts of several African countries, both at the individual country level and within a regional context. Despite the neglect and inequities of the international community, many African peoples are making a determined assault on poverty and social injustice. In our part of the continent, Eritrea and Ethiopia have already started mutually beneficial economic cooperation, and, together with the other countries of the Horn, are working to set up a regional mechanism to foster peace and cooperation. We strongly believe all of the many positive developments in Africa should be duly recognized. In view of the positive developments in the Horn of Africa, the tragedy that has gripped Somalia has been profoundly disturbing. As the bloodletting among our Somali brothers assumed harrowing proportions, and at a time when many were hesitating, we strongly advocated the constructive intervention of the international community, under the umbrella of the United Nations, to save lives and help extricate Somalia from the destruction it was heading for. Despite our opposition in principle to external military intervention, we realized early on that the extraordinary situation in Somalia demanded extraordinary measures. It was therefore with great relief that we welcomed the decision of the United States Administration to intervene in Somalia. Encouraged, we sought - individually and in conjunction with our regional partners - to ensure that the intervention would be guided by clear and comprehensive security, and humanitarian and political objectives. And we did not hesitate to share our views on the size, type and length of stay of the intervention force needed for the success of the mission. But unfortunately our views were not heeded, although we were, and still are, better placed to understand and work in the realities of neighbouring Somalia. Be that as it may, we recognize and appreciate the achievements of the international intervention in Somalia. The improvement of the humanitarian situation and the March 1993 Addis Ababa Accords on national reconciliation are major steps forward. At the same time, the worsening security situation in Mogadishu and the increasing toll in human lives, including women and children, have cast a long shadow on the intervention in Somalia. Repeated mistakes in handling the situation have led some people openly to call for an immediate end to the intervention. It is our conviction that a precipitate withdrawal of United States troops - which we strongly warned against from the beginning - would not only signal a lack of United States commitment to the intervention, but would eventually make the position of the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II) untenable. This would plunge Somalia into a catastrophe much worse than the anarchy that prompted the intervention in the first place. We therefore urge the United States and the international community at large to stay the course in Somalia and to shoulder their responsibility to the Somali people in the hour of their greatest need. We also urge them to review, frankly and dispassionately, the intervention to date, build on the successes and achievements and, more importantly, admit and correct mistakes. We sincerely believe that the countries of the region, whose role has so far been deliberately or otherwise neglected, can make a constructive contribution to the international effort. Consulting them informally every once in a while, as has been the case in the past, is clearly not enough. They need to become part of the process in a more meaningful and formalized way, as it concerns and affects them directly and more than anyone outside the region. The advent of the new State of Eritrea happily coincided with the end of the cold war, that era of super-Power rivalry that caused so much human misery and led to the virtual paralysis of the United Nations. Like the rest of humanity, we place much hope on the new era, on the prospects of an enhanced role for the United Nations, a role that would make it truly representative of 'We, the peoples of the world'. And yet we have no illusions that a new, just and equitable world order has dawned. We see too many old habits and practices - inside the United Nations and outside it - to entertain any illusions. Although we hope for successes, we see that the failures of United Nations initiatives far outnumber any of its successes. Injustice endures within nations and between nations. We are awed by the challenges that continue to face humanity and are deeply aware of our minuscule capabilities. Still, Eritrea is determined to make its own small Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 11 contribution to the betterment of human life in its own corner of the world. Mr. President, the delegation of St. Vincent and the Grenadines welcomes your election to preside over the work of the General Assembly at this its forty-eighth session. By your elevation to this exceedingly demanding position, the General Assembly has acknowledged your well-known personal merits, proven ability and professional skills. I am confident that you will guide this session to a successful conclusion of the business before us. Your country, Guyana, shares a number of common interests and affinities with St. Vincent and the Grenadines and other sister States in the Latin American and Caribbean region. It is therefore with a deep sense of pride that we congratulate you on your unanimous election and pledge the full cooperation of the delegation of St. Vincent and the Grenadines throughout the difficult and challenging period ahead. St. Vincent and the Grenadines was pleased to be in the Chair in August 1992 when the Group of Latin American and Caribbean Countries (GRULAC) unanimously endorsed the Caribbean candidature for the Presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. It was the first time that the Group had so acted, and I wish to congratulate all those who were involved in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) effort, and to thank all member states of the GRULAC for their cooperation. We in CARICOM are steadfast in our commitments, and this demonstration of hemispheric solidarity augurs well for continued strengthening of our ties, not only in placing candidates in important positions in the international arena, but even more critically in promoting and securing the best interests of our member countries in the post-cold-war world. I wish to take this opportunity to express our deep appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, former Foreign Minister of Bulgaria, for the able and inspired manner in which he guided the work of the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session . I wish also to thank the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the extraordinary role he is playing in shaping the future of the international system. St. Vincent and the Grenadines welcomes the representatives of the States newly admitted to membership of the United Nations, namely, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Eritrea, the Principality of Monaco, and Andorra. We particularly wish to congratulate the people of Eritrea on winning the long battle for their self-determination, and we express the hope that their diligence in the pursuit of political independence will be combined with an appropriate strategy for economic achievement. The admission of a nation to this body always marks a significant event in the international arena as it takes us another step forward towards the objective of universal representation. Adherence to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and the right of the world’s peoples to self- determination are the main barometers used in the admission of States to membership of this body of nations. However, the Republic of China on Taiwan, a nation of over 21 million inhabitants, which today has one of the most vigorous economies in the world, is excluded from membership of the United Nations. In this post-cold-war era, when a number of countries which once had a single identity and representation in this Organization now find ready admission as separate and sovereign members, it is appropriate that all States capable of maintaining such sovereign identity be so recognized. Moreover, the Republic of China on Taiwan has demonstrated its capacity to be in the forefront of world economic development and should be provided with an opportunity to participate in, and contribute to, the programmes of the United Nations. My delegation heralds the signing of the United Nations- brokered Governors Island Accord last July by President Aristide and the military-backed Government of Haiti, headed by General Raoul Cedras, as an historic opportunity for the Haitian people, the hemisphere, and the principle of democratic rule. The interim period until President Aristide’s return to Haiti on the 30th of this month must be a time for healing and laying the groundwork for a smooth take-over, and for a concerted rehabilitation process aimed at bringing some measure of economic and political stability to that long-suffering country. My delegation takes this opportunity to reiterate our solidarity with the Haitian people, who have struggled over the past months amidst persistent and blatant human rights abuses and political repression. We hail the efforts and initiatives taken by the United Nations, the Organization of American States, and the Government of the United States of America in bringing the usurpation of authority to an end. Let us pray that the clear message from the resolution of the Haitian crisis by international response will halt the ambitions of the various military aspirants there. As the United Nations moves to perform its peace-keeping, peacemaking and peace-enforcing roles in Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 7 many troubled areas around the world, harassment, beatings and murder of its personnel, both civilian and military, are on the rise. Earlier in the year a number of United Nations personnel in the Middle East and Cambodia were slain. These killings followed the murder of a nurse working with the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) in Gaza and of a United Nations driver in Afghanistan. This year the world has also been shocked by the deaths of a number of Pakistanis, Italians, Moroccans, Americans and nationals of other countries serving in the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM). My Government takes this opportunity to express its condolences to the Governments and peoples of those countries whose nationals paid the ultimate price in their desire to bring peace and deliver humanitarian assistance to the suffering peoples of the world. We also wish to express our sympathy to the bereaved families of all those United Nations personnel who died in the line of duty. Member States must be reminded of their responsibility to protect United Nations workers and of their obligation to act promptly and effectively to deter, prosecute and punish all those responsible for violence. We salute the courage and commitment of those dedicated people who continue to accept considerable personal risks in order to carry out United Nations missions. The international community must take appropriate steps to protect its members and we eagerly await the submission of concrete proposals designed to enhance the safety and security of United Nations forces and personnel. It is evident that the perceived disarray in the United Nations military operation in Somalia is fuelling instability in the country and detracting from the achievement of the original goals of restoring peace and security and ensuring the distribution of humanitarian relief, thereby paving the way for the re-establishment of civil society in the country at large. Naturally, these objectives cannot be achieved unless the international community continues to work in earnest to ensure that disarmament is achieved throughout the country in conformity with the provisions of the Addis Ababa agreement of March 1993, to which all factions are signatories. In this regard, my delegation is of the view that appropriate measures must be taken against those who continue to impede disarmament, in direct contravention of Security Council resolutions and the Addis Ababa agreement. My delegation welcomes signs of a willingness to negotiate on the part of rebel forces. From this point on all actions by the United Nations in Somalia should be aimed at winning the trust of the Somali people as a prerequisite to the re-establishment of peace and security, national reconciliation, restoration of the Somali State and the reconstruction and development of the country. My delegation congratulates the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), under the leadership of Mr. Yasser Arafat, on concluding an agreement with the Rabin Government of Israel to end hostilities among their peoples. We see this as a significant first step that will fail unless it leads to the implementation of the resolutions long agreed to in the United Nations on the territories occupied by Israel and the acceptance by the United Nations of Palestine to membership. Just as my delegation has persistently endorsed the right of Israel to exist within secure borders, we assert the same right for Palestine. At the forty-fifth session of the Assembly, when we were discussing the invasion of Kuwait, my delegation called on this body to demonstrate consistency in responding to its resolutions, and we do so again. We wish to congratulate the Government of Norway on the pivotal and historic facilitating role they played in the process of mediating in the Palestinian/Israeli conflict. We admire the dignified manner of their contribution and subsequent response. The rapidly deteriorating situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina cries out for urgent resolution. The state of affairs cannot be tolerated much longer. Immeasurable harm in both human and material terms has already been done, and the Serbs and Croats appear to be bent on the dismemberment of Bosnia and Herzegovina through border changes, by force and by ethnic cleansing. The international community cannot agree to a solution dictated by the Serbs and Croats at the expense of the Bosnian Muslims. We also cannot accept any territorial solution unless it has the agreement of the three parties. My delegation wishes to state unequivocally that the measures necessary to bring about a reversal of the Serbian aggression must include the immediate immobilization of heavy weapons, placing them under effective international control, and the effective enforcement of comprehensive sanctions on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia until all the conditions in the relevant Security Council resolutions are met. My delegation calls on all those with the resources to influence a return to normality in this part of the world to honour their moral responsibility. The end of the cold war has resulted in a new spirit of cooperation between erstwhile enemies. Ongoing 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session restructuring of the world body is designed to enhance the capacity of the Organization for preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping and peacemaking. Regrettably, these changes do not mean the end of bloody regional conflicts. The strife in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Nagorny Karabakh and Liberia continues. In Angola, Sudan, Afghanistan and Tajikistan there is conflict and distress. The demands on the United Nations for peace-keeping and peace-building are increasing daily in the number of operations and personnel as well as in the scope of their mandates. But in order to bring peace and security to these troubled areas the international community must redouble its efforts to bring about a resolution of their conflicts. One of my country’s most important priorities is support for the right of all peoples living under colonial or alien domination and/or foreign occupation to self- determination and independence. Stressing our commitment to the goal of the complete eradication of colonialism, we once again pledge to strengthen our solidarity with all those countries facing aggression or intervention or interference in their internal affairs. Consistent with this position, we strongly condemn the continuous efforts of certain segments of South African society to perpetuate the system of apartheid. At the same time, we welcome the recent progress towards the establishment of a non-racial democracy, paving the way for the first non-racial elections, scheduled for April 1994, and the eventual reintegration of that country into the international political and economic community. We welcome the adoption by acclamation on Friday, 8 October, of the General Assembly resolution in support of Mr. Nelson Mandela’s call for the immediate lifting of sanctions against South Africa. The delegation of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is particularly pleased that four vital pieces of legislation, setting up, the Independent Electoral Commission, the Independent Media Commission, the Independent Broadcasting Authority and the Transitional Executive Council have been adopted by both the Negotiating Council and the South African Parliament, and are in the process of being enacted into law. With the changing world environment the Organization has been catapulted into new prominence and there has been renewed hope, and high expectation, as well as new ideas on the functioning of the General Assembly. The same movement of change is also of vital importance in the Security Council and in the economic and social fields. Let us not lose the momentum in our quest to give new life to the Organization. The General Assembly is a body that has been functioning below the capacity envisaged by its founding fathers. On the other hand, we have a Security Council that has expanded in scope and power without a corresponding increase in its membership or a reorganization of its functions. The need has also been established for strengthening the role of the Economic and Social Council through a better distribution of its functions and a rationalization of its activities. My delegation is of the view that at a minimum the Security Council should be expanded to allocate permanent seats to Japan and Germany and up to six new rotating seats to be filled on a regional basis in order better to reflect the increased membership of the United Nations and the changed international situation. Certainly, we do not grant to Japan and Germany the recognition they richly deserve. The Rio de Janeiro Earth Summit was about nations joining together in common resolve to do a better job in the future and to offer our children the hope for a brighter tomorrow. The centrepiece of this international effort, Agenda 2l, is a blueprint for our planet which the Governments of the world adopted by acclamation. With the creation of a Commission on Sustainable Development and the restructuring of the economic and social functions of the United Nations, we now have the institutional arrangements in place to ensure that the measures prescribed by Agenda 21 are adequately addressed. In the interim between Rio and the convening of the first substantial session of the Commission on Sustainable Development, it appeared to many that the spirit of Rio was beginning to fade away, due in part to the failure of the industrialized countries to make firm financial commitments to the programme approved at UNCED. There is, however, renewed hope because, since the June session of the Commission, machinery has been firmly put in place to follow up on pledges made at the Rio Summit. The establishment by the Commission of two working groups to tackle the thorny issues of financial flows and technology transfer to the developing countries of the South, in addition to reviewing mechanisms for innovative financing of Agenda 21 and for analysing conditions that determine the flow of financial and economic resources, such as debt relief, terms of trade and commodity prices, is a positive approach, and it should give new impetus to the Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 9 implementation of the global plan which the Rio Summit adopted to protect the world from environmental degradation through the twenty-first century. We wish to thank those who have contributed to the Global Environment Facility, which makes grant funding available to poor countries so that they may properly shoulder their share of environmental responsibilities in our global community. As we observe new trends in the world economy, it is noteworthy that there is potentially greater capacity for growth of real consumption in developing countries than in the developed ones. Those of us who live in small island States have limited options in response to the international economic environment. The banana industry, which is the lifeline of our economies in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and the other countries of the Windward Islands, is currently under threat of extinction. My delegation wishes to record, at this session of the General Assembly, our gratitude to the European Economic Community for its support for this vital component of our economies. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is a small developing archipelagic State, with all the generic circumstances associated with small size, limited resources, geographical dispersion and relative isolation from markets. Naturally we also have advantages, which we continue to exploit in the national interest. Development in all its forms is of paramount national importance to us. In this regard, we look forward with enthusiasm to the World Summit for Social Development in 1995, the International Conference on Population and Development in 1994, and the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, which is scheduled to convene in Barbados in 1994. It is our fervent hope that the international community will recognize the special characteristics and developmental needs of this category of countries, which have not changed in the new configuration of world politics. We pray also that there will be tangible benefits following the conclusion of these Conferences. The United Nations has designated 1993 the International Year for the World’s Indigenous People. Forced off their ancestral lands by settlers and colonizers, indigenous peoples in many parts of the world have faced untold discrimination and poverty and are often afforded little say in their political future. It is no surprise, therefore, that they are increasingly seeking to exercise their full range of human rights. The world’s communities are urged to treat minorities and indigenous peoples, and persons belonging to them, on the basis of equality, and to take measures that would, inter alia, facilitate their full participation in all aspects of the political, economic, social, religious and cultural life of the society. My delegation is proud to state that in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines the indigenous people, the Caribs, are fully integrated into Vincentian society and are beneficiaries of all rights and freedoms under our Constitution. They participate fully in the political process, and today an active representative in the House of Assembly is a descendant of Joseph Chatoyer, the Paramount Chief of the Caribs and a national hero of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Our Government has also taken specific steps, through its land reform and distribution policy, to empower the Caribs, who are the main beneficiaries of the Government’s acquisition of the area formerly occupied by Orange Hill Estates, and the subsequent distribution, with title, of economically viable plots to them. My Government will ensure that our indigenous people continue to participate fully in national society and that their views are solicited and taken into consideration in decision-making processes that affect them and the nation as a whole. My delegation is proud to co-sponsor a draft resolution of the Standing Committee of Caribbean Ministers Responsible for Foreign Affairs of the Caribbean Community calling for the annual observance of an International Day of Indigenous Peoples. I hope that this draft resolution, when brought before this body, will be adopted by acclamation and will receive unanimous follow-up support from Member countries. The Government of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines welcomes and values highly the deepening of relations between the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and Latin America in general. We are also encouraged by the degree of cooperation which is being developed between CARICOM and Central America. In the increasingly competitive world environment, which is gradually being dominated by large trading blocs, it is imperative for our countries in Latin America and the Caribbean to forge closer ties through economic and other forms of functional cooperation. My Government totally condemns the illicit production, trafficking in and consumption of drugs. These harbingers of violent crime and corruption pose a serious threat to the health and well-being of our economies and our people, endanger our democratic institutions and jeopardize national and regional security. 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session We are firmly convinced that only integrated regional and international efforts can effectively address the drug problem, and, accordingly, we stress the need for increased local, regional and international cooperation. Greater emphasis should be placed on programmes that generate employment and income for persons attracted to drug production and trafficking as a means of livelihood. These should be pursued concurrently with programmes for the prevention of drug use and the rehabilitation of drug users. The appropriate measures must also be taken to strengthen our judicial institutions to ensure that the perpetrators of drug abuse and related crimes are brought to swift and effective justice. We in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines are closely observing the evolution of democracy in the States of Eastern Europe and the territories of the former Soviet Union, as well as its consolidation worldwide. We agonized with freedom-loving peoples when the Russian constitutional crisis threatened to 'put democracy under a shade.' We regret the loss of life that resulted from the struggle for control, and we hope that the emergence of a full- fledged system of democracy, with the ultimate power residing in the hands of the people, will not be impeded by any self-serving acts on the part of major players. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines welcomes the constitutional resolution of the political impasse in Pakistan. As a member of the Commonwealth, we welcome Mrs. Benazir Bhutto back as Prime Minister of her country and look forward to meeting her in Cyprus at the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting. My delegation wishes to reiterate its resolute commitment to the democratic ideal and the concomitant free enterprise system. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, like the other countries of CARICOM, has gone through a historic constitutional journey, from Crown Colony Government, with its limited franchise, to full political independence under universal adult suffrage. We have adhered to the principles and practice of participatory democracy and the market economy, even when these ideals were not as pervasive and mandatory as they are today. We have stayed the course, by choice and conviction, and our people have reaped the benefits. They will have it no other way. In this post-cold-war era we are determined to maintain the gains of our democracy which we have accumulated over the years, even as we face the increasing difficulties associated with the marginalization of small States in the face of bloc consolidation and other emerging trends of our time. I am most pleased to convey to Ambassador Insanally my congratulations and those of my delegation on his election as President of General Assembly at this session. At the same time, I wish to express our sincere appreciation to Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria for guiding with skill and dedication the work of the Assembly at its previous session. Let me pay a tribute to our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the vision and the energy he has devoted to the leadership of our Organization at a difficult but exhilarating moment in history. Allow me to express at this point the deep sympathies of my delegation for the people of India in connection with the tragedy visited upon them by the earthquake that devastated parts of the state of Maharashtra. The President is presiding over the work of the Assembly in a world that continues its amazing political transformation. Since we met in this same Hall last year, a period that is but the twinkling of an eye in the long history of mankind, the world’s political landscape has been further and radically transformed. That transformation is, above all, reflected in and exemplified by two of the major preoccupations that have exercised the Assembly and the international community for decades - namely, the situation in South Africa and the problem of Palestine. The abhorrent system of apartheid, long the evil foundation of the South African State, has finally crumbled because of the unremitting efforts of the people of South Africa and of the international community, not least of the United Nations. In its place, multiracial negotiations - in themselves an amazing phenomenon in that country - have led to a specific programme with a precise timetable for the conversion of South Africa, in the words recently uttered in this Hall by that authentic leader of the South African people, Nelson Mandela, 'into a united, democratic, non-racial and non-sexist country'. The whole situation in the Middle East, too, has been transformed, a transformation symbolized by a single handshake in Washington. That historic gesture resulted from complex combinations of circumstances and developments and presages further arduous negotiations and determined efforts by the Israeli and Palestinian peoples and their neighbours. But there is now, more than ever before, reason to trust that in that long-afflicted part of the world the politics of intolerance, hatred and despair is being replaced by the politics of accommodation, enlightenment, pragmatism and hope. Thus, the international community’s political agenda, and the substance and content, if not the item-titles, of the Assembly’s agenda, have radically changed. The global economy is being transformed no less radically. Everywhere, obsolete obstacles to trade are coming down, if not yet globally, then within the various Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 13 regions of the world. To be sure, economic barriers continue to be propped up by atavistic hands that seek to reverse the tide and hold back the march of global economic progress. The most obvious victim of these rearguard actions is the Uruguay Round, which, after years of frustrating negotiations and painstaking bargaining, has yet to come to a conclusion. The ultimate victims are the global economy and the livelihoods and standards of living of the world’s peoples. Here, the accusing finger of history points at certain developed countries, with their short-sighted subsidies and protectionist devices. Nevertheless, the trend towards trade and economic liberalization gathers momentum. More and more nations recognize that that trend can be reversed only at the peril of the well-being of the world’s peoples. Our region of South-East Asia has been a vital part of the global political and economic transformation. The conflict in Cambodia and the agony of the Cambodian people long preoccupied this Assembly as well as the Security Council. Going beyond the expectations of so many, the Cambodian people have made their historic decision for peace and reconciliation. We now call upon the international community to extend its support to the Cambodian people and their new Government so that they will find surcease not only from war, but also from poverty and want, and so that they will find not only peace, but a life of dignity and freedom. The Declaration by the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) on the South China Sea, which was issued in Manila last year, has received the strong endorsement of the United Nations and of individual Governments, and we in South-East Asia have continued our measured effort to build a regime of peace, cooperation and mutual confidence in that disputed area. Earlier this year we in ASEAN, joined by the other nations of East Asia, including Viet Nam and Laos, and by others with interests in the region, agreed upon an ASEAN Regional Forum in which questions of regional security can be periodically examined and discussed together. In East Asia, the rapid advance of economic liberalization has propelled the economies of the region to achieve some of the highest growth rates in the world. The commitment to the free market has found its most forceful expression in the decision of ASEAN’s leaders to establish an ASEAN Free Trade Area through the steady reduction and eventual elimination of trade barriers within ASEAN. Happily, the dawning of a new era of peace and the promise of prosperity in our region have found a bright reflection in my country. President Ramos’ policy of national unity and reconciliation has replaced the politics of division. Dissident elements have been drawn back into the fold of society. Peace talks with the remaining disaffected groups are being held. Amnesty has been offered to all. The economics of selfishness and greed is being replaced with reforms to secure economic fairness and social justice. The Philippine economy is ruled no longer by the tyranny of excessive regulation or of corporate monopoly but by the invigorating regime of market forces and free competition.Global competitiveness, in place of political contention, is now the watchword throughout the land. All this is being carried out with the most meticulous respect for human rights in accordance with the national consensus and the deepest convictions of our people. It is being achieved within the framework of our democratic institutions. For we are convinced that there is no substitute for respect for human rights and democracy in the achievement of long-term stability and progress, as well as in the assurance of human dignity and the fulfilment of human aspirations. The new situation in the world gives us new hope and a brighter promise. But grave dangers and tragic situations remain. Old scourges continue to torment the human family; new agonies confront it. Religious intolerance and the rise of nationalist ambitions have supplanted ideological fanaticism as the fuel for the fires of conflict that now burn in too many places in the world. The collapse of empires has let loose the savage impulse to settle historical scores, redress ancient ethnic grievances, and set right real or imagined injustices over national borders, the treatment of minorities, or the control of resources. The tragedy of Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the worst and most dangerous of these barbarities. Despite - in certain cases, because of - the onset of a climate of peace, trafficking in the weapons of war sometimes continues unabated, dissipating resources, endangering people, imperilling the peace. The Philippines steadfastly supports measures to promote greater transparency in arms transfers and military expenditures, including the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms. 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The Philippines urges the nuclear-weapon States, in the strongest terms, to restore the recently broken moratorium on all nuclear testing, and hopes that the international community will decide, through a comprehensive test-ban treaty, to cease for ever the testing of nuclear devices, which so gravely threaten the very existence of the human family. The Philippines favours the extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and calls upon all to abide strictly by its provisions, including the safeguards agreements with the International Atomic Energy Agency. At the same time, we urge the nuclear-weapon States to fulfil their own obligations under the Treaty and further reduce their stocks of such weapons until they are no more. Amid the rising tide of economic liberalization, the siren song of protectionism continues to entice nations with its fraudulent promise. Legitimate concerns over health, food safety, the environment, workers’ welfare, and even human rights, including the rights of indigenous peoples - and now 'social dumping' - are being invoked to clothe in various guises policies of naked protectionism. Decisions on global finance continue to be made by a few, with the rest of the world standing by even though it is vitally affected. The burden of foreign debt continues to be a millstone round the necks of many developing countries, and the problem is often aggravated by decisions on interest rates and exchange rates in which those countries have no voice. The Philippines continues faithfully to fulfil its external financial obligations, regardless of the extent to which that policy holds back our economic growth, constitutes a burden on our people, and imposes a heavy domestic political cost on our leaders. But we wonder whether the world has tried hard enough to devise creative solutions to this economic plague upon the developing countries. After all, some nations have been favoured with decisive - even radical - measures to alleviate their foreign debt, such measures having become politically useful to the creditor countries. The ravages that the profligacy of man has wrought upon the Earth’s delicate environment continue to endanger our fragile planet and many nations. The Philippines has kept faith with the commitments made by us all at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development because of its conviction that development cannot be sustained if the world’s - and the country’s - natural riches and the balance between them are destroyed. No less destructive is the accelerating increase in the illicit trafficking in drugs, which destroys the lives of our people in the vigour of their youth. It gives rise to lawlessness and crime. It knows no national boundaries. We therefore appeal for the full and effective implementation of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme and the Global Programme of Action. In situations of conflict, women, as well as children, become the most tragic victims by virtue of their inherent vulnerability. The systematic rape and murder of women and girls in Bosnia and Herzegovina is only the most outrageous instance of this abhorrent reality. Similarly, in situations of extreme poverty, women - particularly migrant workers - are the most vulnerable to abuse. Detached from the family, away from their homeland, often living in their employer’s home, unprotected by the country where they work, women migrant workers are especially susceptible to maltreatment. The abuses to which they are exposed, and often subjected, are a veritable litany of woe - denial of their rightful wages, excessive deductions by their employment agencies, intolerably long working hours, insufficient food, lack of medical care, the absence of any avenue for the redress of their grievances, physical attack, rape and other forms of sexual abuse. We call upon the Assembly to keep among the areas of its concern the condition of women, who make up half of the world - in particular, the migrant workers among them. And we call upon the Governments concerned to enact laws and other measures for the protection of these migrant workers. We ask these Governments to cease the callous treatment of migrant workers as commodities that are subject only to the law of supply and demand. These scourges of mankind - mass poverty, external debt, environmental damage, illicit drugs, abuses against women, the mistreatment of migrant workers - would be more effectively addressed if Governments, societies and the international community were to place people at the centre of development and international cooperation. This is what the World Summit for Social Development is intended to do. We urge the world’s leaders and their Governments to ensure maximum participation in this milestone event in Copenhagen in 1995. The world has changed radically, largely for the better. But old problems remain, and new challenges confront us. To respond to these problems under the new circumstances, and to deal with these new challenges, our Organization, the United Nations, must renew itself. Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 15 In few aspects of the work of the United Nations is this need for renewal more evident than in the Security Council. The structure of the Security Council was formulated at the very birth of the United Nations, at the end of the Second World War and the beginning of the cold war. Forty-eight years have passed. Massive changes have occurred in the world, particularly in recent years. Empires have crumbled. The ideological division of the world has melted away. The cold war has ended. The membership of the United Nations has multiplied from 51 at the time of its founding to 184 today. And yet, apart from the enlargement of its membership 30 years ago from 9 nine to 15, the Security Council has not changed. It has remained small, unrepresentative, undemocratic, opaque. We recognize the reality of continuing imbalances in world power and the necessity for the Security Council to reflect this reality. But, surely, we must also recognize the reality of the worldwide trend towards, and the people’s desire for, democratization and transparency in political affairs. Surely, the Security Council, the United Nations body with the greatest impact on international peace and security, must also reflect this reality in its size, in its structure, in its procedures, in its relations with other United Nations bodies, including the General Assembly. We are, therefore, in favour of a searching reassessment of the structure, role and procedures of the Security Council with a view to its reform. And we urge that, in view of the repercussions that such a reform would have on other United Nations bodies and activities, this reassessment be carried out within the context of a thorough review of the Charter. The sober, rational and realistic proposals propounded yesterday by the Foreign Minister of Singapore might serve as a useful starting-point for our consideration of this important matter. The entire United Nations is, in fact, in need of reform. In the new international situation, the enlarged demands upon the United Nations and the constraints on the available means require that the resources of the United Nations be carefully husbanded for their most efficient use. The concept and substance of management - and by that I mean the science of management - must be imposed upon the United Nations bureaucracy. Funds and other assets must be most meticulously safeguarded and effectively utilized. Duplication must be avoided, costs drastically cut, waste radically reduced, and corruption abolished. I am sure that many developing countries share our desire that the United Nations should impose upon itself the austerity and discipline that are required of many of us by the international financial institutions. We pay a tribute to the Secretary-General’s attention to this aspect of his work. We welcome in particular the creation of the new post of Assistant Secretary-General for Inspections and Investigations as an indication of his determination to address this problem. The Philippines is up to date in its contribution to the finances of the United Nations. It may be a small amount in the totality of the Organization’s resources, but it is substantial in proportion to our financial capacity. We would not want to see it squandered. We cannot afford it. Neither can the United Nations. May I propose, then, that a group of men and women with both extensive experience and skill in corporate management and extensive exposure to the special requirements and problems of the United Nations be commissioned to study this question in greater depth and detail and with greater objectivity, and to make the appropriate recommendations. There are many in this Hall right now who would be eminently qualified to perform this task. The Philippines will explore the possibility of a draft resolution to this effect at a suitable time. This is a matter of great and urgent necessity. For reforms in the United Nations will place the Organization in a better position to deal with the demands upon it in the second half-century of its existence and to fulfil in the next millennium the vision that its founding fathers had for this great and indispensable Organization. I should like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your unanimous election to preside over the forty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly. We feel strongly that the time has come for all of us - communities, nations, peoples, families - finally to lay the last collective wreath on the tombs of the fallen combatants and on the monuments of our beloved. It is the right way to honour their memories and to answer the needs of the newly born. We have to lay the foundations for a new Middle East. The peace agreement between us and the Palestinians is not just an accord signed by political leaders. It is an ongoing, profound commitment to the next generation of Arabs and Israelis, Christians, Muslims, Jews and people of all other faiths. We know it is not enough to declare an end to war. We have to try to eradicate the roots of all hostilities. If we only bring violence down but ignore misery, we may discover that we have traded one menace for another peril. Territorial disputes may have been the reason for wars between nations, and poverty may again become the seed of violence between peoples. While signing the documents on the lawn of the White House, I could almost sense the breeze of a fresh spring, and my imagination began to wander to the skies of our land, which may have become brighter to the eyes of all people, both those who agree and those who oppose. On the lawn one could almost hear the heavy tread of boots leaving the stage after a hundred years of hostility. One could have heard the gentle tiptoeing of new steps making a debut in a world awaiting peace. Yet we could not depart from reality. I know that the solution to the Palestinian issue may be the key to a new beginning, but it is in no way the answer to the many needs awaiting us upon our return home. The last decade saw great changes, including the end of East-West confrontation and the opening of the way for the gradual disappearance of North-South polarization. The great continent of Asia and the picturesque continent of South America introduced the dynamics of an economic development of their own. The dramatic event in South Africa is a declaration to the same effect. So, contrary to all assumptions, it has been demonstrated that neither geography nor race is a hindrance or an advantage to economic promise. We witnessed the end of some wars only to discover that the warriors did not reach their own promised land. Some colonized people gained their independence, but they hardly enjoyed its fruits. The dangers may have been over, but their hopes evaporated. We have learned that the end of a war should be the beginning of a new genesis, which will be the end of belligerency and will put an end to psychological prejudices. No nation, rich or poor, is able nowadays to attain security unless the region in which it exists is secure. The scope of regional security must exceed the range of ballistic missiles, which may hit each and all of us. As we strive to achieve a comprehensive peace, no wound must remain unhealed. Geographically speaking, we live side by side with the Jordanian Kingdom, and what is so obvious geographically must become clear politically. We have already agreed with the Hashemite Kingdom on many complicated issues, and there is no doubt that we can complete the story fully, that we can offer the people on both sides of the river full peace, that the Dead Sea can become a spring of new life and that the old waters of the River Jordan can be a source of prosperity flowing from each side to the other. We hope - as a matter of fact, we are determined - to make peace with Syria, yet we ask the Syrian leadership, if it has chosen peace, why it refuses to meet openly. If Syria is aiming for the Egyptian fruits of peace, it must follow the process that led to them. Both of us have to look ahead and realize that the threats of war are no more than an illusion that one can return to an unbearable past. We shall not give up our negotiations with our Lebanese neighbours. We do not have any territorial claims or any political pretensions concerning Lebanon. We pray, together with many Lebanese, that their country will no longer be a back yard for troublemakers. It is for Lebanon to make a choice between Hizbollah, on the one hand, which operates from its territory and then takes orders from another Government, and, on the other, insisting on having one army, one policy, and offering real tranquillity to its people and security to its neighbours. Lebanon does not need a license to regain its independence, and Lebanon should not postpone its return to its balanced, traditional policy. I am not sure whether there is a new order in the world, but all of us feel there is a new world awaiting an order. We are encouraged by the new attempt of the United Nations and its Secretary-General to answer the social and 22 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session economic call of the present era. The United Nations was created as a political answer; today it must face social and economic questions. The Middle East, which has been an important agenda item in United Nations history, must become prosperous, not only peaceful. To construct a modern Middle East we need wisdom no less than financial support. We have to rid ourselves of the costly follies of the past and adopt the principles of modern economy. Who will, and who should, pay the cost of oversized armies? Who will, and who should, bear the price of an arms race whose cost has reached $50 billion annually? Who will, and who should, pay for the inefficiencies of old systems? Who will, and who should, compensate for outmoded censorship of mail and control of trade and travel? And who will comply with the State where suspicion intercepts the enterprising spirit of the people? We can, and we should, turn to the promises of scientific development, the market economy and comprehensive education. We must base our industry, agriculture and services on the highest of today’s technologies. We have to invest in our schools. Israel, a country of immigration, is blessed with many scientists and engineers. We shall gladly make this human wealth available as a contribution. I know that there is suspicion; that, when referring to a common market in the Middle East or announcing an Israeli contribution, it may be perceived as an attempt to win preference or to establish domination. May I say sincerely and loudly that we did not give up territorial control to engage ourselves in economic superiority. The age of domination, political or economic, is dead. The time of cooperation has begun. As a Jew, may I say that the virtue and the essence of our history since the times of Abraham and the commandments of Moses have been an uncompromising opposition to any form of occupation, domination and discrimination. For us, Israel is not just a territorial homeland, but a permanent moral commitment as well. There are other questions, concerning the building of a common market in the Middle East, as to how to attain this when governments are so varied and economies are so different. The differences in governments and economies should not prevent us from doing together what can be done together: combating the desert and offering fertility to an arid land. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations declared that the Middle East must double its agricultural production in the 25 years to come. The population of the region in the same period will double itself anyway. The land is cut by many and large deserts and its water resources are stingy and scarce. Yet we know that in a similar period of time - the 25 years between 1950 and 1975 - Israel was able to increase its agricultural output twelvefold - an increase unprecedented in history. During the past decade, 95 per cent of the growth of our agriculture resulted from research, planning, training and organizing. High technology permits nations to attain real independence and to experience genuine freedom, political as well as economic. There is nothing new about the scarcity of water in our midst. Jacob and Esau drank from the same wells even when their paths were separated. But then, unlike today, they could not desalinate the sea water; they could not computerize irrigation; nor could they enjoy the potential of biotechnology. We are meeting again with an entirely different opportunity. Greening the land can be accompanied by the creation of many new jobs for all people in the area. The most promising opportunity may be the development of tourism. No other branch of modern industry assures an immediate growth of the Middle East like this one. Our area is blessed by nature and by history, a history which is still very much alive: the eternity of Jerusalem, the magnificence of the pyramids, the symbols of Luxor, the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, the Pillars of Wisdom in Baalbek, the red palaces of Petra, the inimitable charm of Marakesh, the old winds which still blow in Carthage, not forgetting the beaches of Gaza or the scent of Jericho’s perfumed fruits. We have to open roads to those wonders and keep them safe and hospitable. Tourism depends on tranquility; tourism enhances tranquillity. It makes friendship a vested interest. Thirdly, we have to build an infrastructure with modern means so as to avoid the pitfalls of the past. Modern transportation and revolutionary communications crossing the air, covering the ground and connecting the seas will turn geographical proximities into an economic advantage. We should not ask taxpayers of other countries to finance follies of our own. We have to correct them ourselves. We do not have the moral right to ask for the financing of unnecessary wars or wasteful systems. If the thumping of hammers replaces the thunder of guns, many nations will be more than willing to extend a helping hand. They will invest in a better future. They will support the replacement of unwarranted confrontation with Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 23 much-needed economic competition. Markets can serve the needs of the people no less than flags can signify their destinies. The time has come to build a Middle East for the people and not just for the rulers. It was not simple to open the locked doors to peace. In the name of God, let them not be closed again. Let peace be comprehensive, embracing all issues, all countries, all generations. We suggest that we all negotiate together as equals. We offer a common ground of mutual respect and mutual compromise. Thirteen years have passed since we made peace with Egypt. We are grateful to Egypt and its President for expanding understanding, overt and hidden. In a world in which so many insoluble problems reside, the Palestinians and we have finally shown that in fact there are no insoluble problems, only people who tend to believe that many problems are insoluble. We have negotiated one of the most complicated issues of the last 100 years. We are grateful to the United States for its support and leadership. We are grateful to both President Clinton and Secretary Christopher for their crucial role. We appreciate the Egyptian role and the Norwegian encouragement; the European involvement and serious contribution; the Asian support and blessing. Maybe we now have the right to say to other people in conflict: 'Do not give up. Do not surrender to old obsessions and do not take fresh disappointments at face value.' What we did, others can do as well. We are determined to make the agreement with the Palestinians into a permanent success. Israel would consider the economic success of the Palestinians as though it were its own, and I believe that a newly achieved security will serve the aspirations of the Israelis and the necessities of the Palestinians. Gaza, after 7,000 years of suffering, can emancipate itself from want. Jericho, without its fallen walls, can see its gardens blossom again. As the twentieth century comes to a close, we have learned from the United States and Russia that there are no military answers to the new military dangers, only political solutions. Successful economies are no longer a monopoly of the rich and the mighty. They represent an open invitation to every nation ready to adopt the combination of science and open-mindedness. We see at the end of this century that politics can achieve more by good will than by power, and that the young generation watching their televisions compare their lot with the fortunes or misfortunes of others. They see freedom, they watch peace, they view prosperity, all in real time. They know that they can attain more if they work harder. If we want to represent their hopes, we have to combine wise policies and regional security with market economies. Historically we were born equal, and equally we can give birth to a new age. 'Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that the plowman shall overtake the reaper, and the treader of 24 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session grapes him that soweth seed; and the mountains shall drop sweet wine, and all the hills shall melt.' (The Holy Bible, Amos 9:13) So said the Prophet. First of all, I should like to extend to the President of the General Assembly at this forty-eighth session my sincere congratulations on his election. He was unanimously supported for this position because of his excellent qualities; and his election is also a tribute to his country, Guyana. Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, our Secretary-General, also deserves our wholehearted thanks and appreciation for his constant and resolute efforts in implementing the decisions of our Organization and applying the principles of our Charter. The already very broad universality of the United Nations has been further strengthened - and I welcome this - with the admission of six new countries: the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Eritrea, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Monaco and Andorra. Mr. Willy Claes, the Belgian Minister for Foreign Affairs, yesterday expressed the views of the European Community and its member States. I shall therefore be able in this statement to focus on a few matters of particular concern to my Government. Three years ago, from this very rostrum, we welcomed the end of the East-West confrontation and its corollary, the end of the threat of nuclear annihilation. Throughout the world, democracy and respect for the state of law were progressing in a most encouraging way. But given developments in the last few years, it would seem that we should somehow dampen our enthusiasm. Changes in the balance of forces between the Powers that dominated the old order have allowed nationalism and regionalism to develop. In some cases, this has led to the destabilization of entire regions following upon rivalries between neighbors, ethnic tension and religious fanaticism. Nationalism is of course not in and of itself evil. It is in some sense a logical manifestation of feelings of pride and self-confidence which can finally express themselves after long years of oppression during which free speech was forcibly repressed. But once the legitimate expression of this regained pride of a people is transformed into open hostility towards everything that is different, then nationalism carries within itself the seeds of grave danger. Extreme nationalism can be seen in many places, whether it be in the territory of the former Soviet Union or the former Yugoslavia, where it has found its most intolerable expression. It leads to explosions of violence, armed aggression, acts of terrorism and unspeakable suffering for the civilian populations. Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 31 Ethnic conflicts are proliferating in all regions of the world. In Western Europe itself, it can be seen in the resurgence of racist and xenophobic incidents. As a challenge to the primacy of law and to respect for human rights, extreme nationalism constitutes a threat to the international order. A clear and coherent strategy is necessary to respond to this challenge. First of all, education with regard to tolerance should be renewed; and, secondly, legal protection for minorities must be ensured. The principles and rules drawn up in this area by the Council of Europe and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe might suggest some solutions. New instruments are to be defined next week at the summit of the Council of Europe. The plan for stability in Europe is part of this same approach. Thirdly - and this is the most important action to be taken - we must do everything possible at the national, regional and international levels to strengthen democratization and to promote protection for human rights. It is on the basis of these principles, focused on the free expression of peoples and the development of democratic structures, that the United Nations has proposed solutions and agreements to resolve the conflicts which are being submitted to it in ever-increasing numbers. The Government of Luxembourg expresses its deep satisfaction over the agreement on mutual recognition and the agreement on the autonomy of occupied territories concluded between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization. We should like to pay tribute to those who forged the agreements, in particular Prime Minister Rabin, his Foreign Minister Peres and President Arafat. They have given the world a lesson in courage and clarity of vision and in political realism as well. The developments we have witnessed are of a historic significance comparable to that of the collapse of the Berlin Wall. They fundamentally change the facts of the Middle East; they have launched a process of reconciliation in order to put an end to an explosive, untenable and unjust situation. In a region devastated by more than 40 years of war, violence and hatred, a window is now opening on a more peaceful and democratic future. The still fragile dynamic that has been created must be strengthened without delay. This can first be achieved by the conclusion of peace agreements between Israel and its neighbours: Lebanon, Jordan and Syria. The Government of Luxembourg encourages the leaders concerned to overcome the last obstacles and to open the way to normalization of their relations with Israel. The Israelis and the Palestinians must then act together and in good faith, with the solidarity of the regional and international community to implement successfully the agreement on autonomy in the occupied territories, the first step towards a comprehensive settlement. The first contributor of funds, the European Community and its member States, is prepared to increase cooperation on behalf of a population that must be helped to emerge from poverty and build a more dignified and prosperous future. Our Government will participate fully in that effort. Thanks to the United Nations, peace was restored in Namibia and Nicaragua three years ago. Today in Cambodia the effort led by the United Nations has enabled the people of an ancient culture, humiliated by decades of bloody oppression and foreign occupation, to participate on a mass scale in free and open elections. By consolidating a State of law and national reconciliation, the country will be able to rebuild itself. In Haiti a firm policy of close cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization of American States (OAS) has led to an agreement which provides for the restoration of democracy. In El Salvador the assistance of the United Nations was decisive in putting an end to the civil war and recommencing the construction of a civilian society and the process of national reconciliation. Free elections in which all Salvadorians will be able to participate are to be held next year. In Somalia, however, intervention by the United Nations has demonstrated the limits of armed intervention in a tribal civil war in the absence of a political agreement and a cease-fire. Nevertheless, the difficulties encountered in Mogadishu should not make us forget that the United Nations made an essential contribution to combating the famine. 32 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session In South Africa further decisive progress is being made towards the definitive abolition of apartheid. I welcome the agreement on setting up a transitional body to draw up a provisional Constitution and prepare for free elections in April 1994. Only a shared determination and close cooperation between all the parties will make it possible to stop the deadly violence which continues to kill and which jeopardizes the process of reconciliation. Significant progress towards restoring democracy and towards national reconciliation has also been made in other countries in Central America and in Africa. Those achievements, however imperfect, are encouraging, and demonstrate the role that our Organization can play in preserving peace and consolidating democratic regimes. The situation in the former Yugoslavia is still extremely disturbing. Every day we see on television the barbarism that accompanies 'ethnic cleansing' and the bloodstained dismemberment of Bosnia and Herzegovina -a country which was once an example of ethnic and religious coexistence. The agreement between the three Bosnian parties, which has yet to be finalized, is admittedly complex and far from perfect. Yet it has the merit of opening up the prospect of putting an end to terror and violence. It offers a comprehensive arrangement for emerging from the crisis. Its success, which is far from being assured, presupposes a real desire on the part of the three parties to reach agreement and to carry out and abide by what is signed. The European Community and its member States, where necessary assisted by the Western European Union (WEU), are ready to contribute to implementation of the agreement, in cooperation with the United Nations, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). Sanctions could be lifted when the various Security Council resolutions on the former Yugoslavia have been implemented and when a satisfactory solution to the problem of minorities has been found. Overall, our Organization’s peace-keeping activities have reached an unprecedented level. Almost 80,000 Blue Helmets, military and civilian, are in the field in an unparalleled number of humanitarian missions and peace- keeping operations. I pay tribute to all those who serve the cause of peace and in particular to those who have lost their lives during these actions. We have a duty to ensure better security for personnel. Luxembourg, itself born as a modern State of an international treaty guaranteed by the Powers of the time, is particularly sensitive to the need for security and the need to preserve the peace. It has therefore contributed actively to United Nations peace-keeping operations, sending military personnel and making suitable financial contributions. My Government intends to continue this cooperation in the future. Luxembourg also firmly supports the efforts to step up United Nations activities in the area of preventive diplomacy. These efforts must be increased. Measures such as fact-finding missions, the use of rapid alert systems, the establishment of a rapid deployment group, and a reinforcement of the roles of regional organizations could all be very useful in preventing conflict. Once a conflict has been unleashed it requires a much more costly intervention to ensure the restoration of peace. New cooperation is developing between the United Nations and regional organizations, which will increasingly be called upon to carry out peace-keeping functions at their level or to support and supplement United Nations activities in the area of collective security. The WEU, of which my country currently holds the presidency, is in the course of defining its role in peace-keeping operations. NATO and the CSCE are doing likewise. The preservation of peace and the promotion of democracy and the rule of law go hand in hand with the protection of human rights. Over the years, our Organization has succeeded in developing and progressively codifying human rights. But that is not enough; we must also see to it that these rights are better respected. The annual reports of organizations involved in the defence of human rights show that we are still far from attaining that objective. We are pleased that the Vienna Conference on Human Rights allowed encouraging progress to be made. The universality of human rights was clearly affirmed. Specific proposals were made for ensuring broader knowledge of human rights, promoting them and respecting them. It is now for this Assembly to approve those proposals, including the establishment of a High Commissioner for Human Rights. There is an indissoluble link between respect for human rights and the promotion of democracy. Within the United Nations system this link takes concrete form in the Organization’s growing activities in the area of technical Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 33 assistance and international supervision of electoral processes. I support the proposals by our Secretary-General to broaden these support activities to include the establishment of a free press, political parties and an independent judiciary. In this context, I welcome the decision taken by President Yeltsin to organize free elections in order to ensure democratic legitimacy for all State bodies in Russia. The United Nations must also increase its activities in the economic, social and environmental areas. This will also require the continued courageous reform of its structures and working methods. We can have no lasting peace while peoples are subjected to abject poverty and famine and while they have no hope for progress towards greater justice and equality. Cooperation and trade: these are the two foci of a single policy, which must be followed. In the past few years my Government has doubled the aid it designates for development and cooperation. We are in favour of the swift conclusion of a balanced agreement in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Such an agreement can provide at the world level a new impetus to trade and economic relations. Following the Rio Conference on Environment and Development, the new Commission on Sustainable Development must be determined to ensure that the commitments entered into at that Conference are followed up. The world’s population has more than doubled over the past 40 years and according to estimates will double again in the next 30 years. The international community must engage in a thorough analysis of the consequences of that level of growth - for example, the problems of refugees, urban concentration, and the enormous constraints in the areas of food, housing, health and education. That is why the Conference on Population and Development to be held in Cairo in 1994 has such importance. It is not surprising that social problems are becoming increasingly important at a time when many economies are facing difficult adjustment processes and others are carrying out a delicate transition from a planned economy to a market economy. Moreover, all recently published reports confirm that there is a disturbing increase in the gap between the richest sectors and the poorest sectors of populations, both within countries and between countries. The World Summit for Social Development which will take place in 1995 will, if it is adequately prepared, offer the international community an opportunity to develop a strategy to combat poverty and to ensure the better distribution of wealth. More than a year ago the Secretary-General issued his report 'An Agenda for Peace', which was designed to strengthen the Organization’s capacities in the area of preventive diplomacy and the maintenance and restoration of peace. Some of the proposals it contains are already being applied in practice, but others are still pending. We hope that the current review of the Agenda will lead to specific results that can meet the Organization’s needs. Reform of the Security Council is a delicate issue which touches on the very heart of international post-war cooperation. The Council has now been in operation for 50 years, and the time has come to have a candid and in- depth discussion of the question. The fiftieth anniversary of the Organization in 1995 could offer us a good opportunity to do this. The second crisis facing the United Nations - and this point has been emphasized in all the statements made here so far - is the chronic budget deficit. To put it bluntly, the United Nations is bordering on insolvency. This is all the more astonishing in that the annual budget of the Organization is about the same as that of a medium-sized city. The legal obligation that binds all Member States makes it incumbent on them to pay their financial contributions in full and at the proper time. The credibility and the operational capacity of the United Nations depend on this. In conclusion, let me turn to an old Europe. In building European union the members of the European Community have tried to seize an unprecedented opportunity for the entire continent to achieve a truly unified Europe, a Europe of countries that have often made war against each other in the past. Without denying the current difficulties, I believe that the process of integration being carried out by the European Community can serve as the inspiration for initiatives for regional integration in Asia, Africa and Latin America. European unification was thought up and implemented on the basis of principles that are still fully valid: reconciliation between peoples that only yesterday were 34 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session enemies; broad-ranging political, economic, commercial and cultural cooperation; and the development of a social model based on pluralistic democracy, the market economy and solidarity. Such a model guarantees justice and social cohesion even if we are never able to make it perfect and it must be constantly adjusted. It is on the basis of these common values that all the peoples of Europe can, for the first time in their history, build their future together. I believe that at the world level also, thanks to concerted international action, we will be in a better position to overcome the obstacles to peace and to create a world order that is more democratic, more tolerant, more just and more social - in a word, more in keeping with the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations. I should like first of all, Mr. President, to convey to you my warmest congratulations. Your election to the presidency of this Assembly is a clear acknowledgement of your personal qualities and diplomatic skills and is a tribute to your country, the Republic of Guyana. We are pleased that you were nominated as a 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session candidate by the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States, with which my country has particularly close and cooperative relations. I should also like to pay tribute to and greet warmly Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. The United Nations needs his proven competence and political experience in order to face the numerous challenges before us at the end of the century. You may rest assured, Mr. Secretary-General, that in carrying out your complex tasks you can count on the firm cooperation of the Spanish authorities. Allow me also to convey at this time to the Government and the people of India our deepest sympathy for and solidarity with the victims of the earthquake that ravaged that country yesterday. Over the last year the universality of the United Nations has once again been enhanced by the admission of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Eritrea, Monaco and Andorra as new Members. I welcome them all, and most particularly Andorra, a neighbour of Spain with which we are linked by special ties of history, culture and deep friendship. A few days ago Belgium’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, speaking on behalf of the European Community and its member States, set forth our common points of view in this general debate. On behalf of the Spanish delegation, I shall mention some issues that I think deserve special attention. A year ago, when I addressed this Assembly for the first time, I referred, as did many other speakers, to the fundamental changes that had taken place in the world since the middle of the last decade. It is the Spanish Government’s firm conviction that those changes have led to the advent of a new era. The United Nations has a great opportunity to play an effective, central role in harmonizing world-wide the efforts of the international community in order to achieve the common purposes embodied in the Charter. Thus, it seems that the time has come to strengthen our Organization by providing it with the necessary human and material resources to enable it to carry out its goals. We must also think about the measures necessary for a possible revision of the Charter. A review of the Security Council is an item on our agenda, and this needs to be approached in a constructive spirit and with the aim of increasing its representativeness and ensuring that its actions be not only fast but also effective. Such a review should be based on the criteria established in Article 23 of the Charter, that is to say, taking into account the contribution of Member States to the maintenance of international peace and security and to the other purposes of the Organization, and also to equitable geographical distribution. We believe that the time has come for a moderate increase in the membership of the Council so as to reflect the increase in the number of Members of the Organization since 1963, when, for the first time, it was decided to expand the Council’s membership. We also deem it appropriate to consider the creation of new categories: one that would enable certain States to become permanent members without the right of veto, and another that would allow more frequent non-permanent membership in the Council to certain States with weight and influence in international relations that have the capacity and political will to contribute significantly to the fulfilment of the purposes and principles of the United Nations. All this would undoubtedly serve to put our Organization in a better position to face the challenges of maintaining peace and international security. In this context, it is also necessary to make reforms in order to deal with the changing nature of the tasks assigned to the peace operations established by the Security Council. The traditional concept of peace-keeping operations, embracing monitoring of cease-fire agreements, interposition between adversarial forces and the establishment of confidence-building measures - all by primarily military means - has been expanded, increasingly encompassing new, non-military aspects. These new tasks range from humanitarian assistance to nation-building, and include the monitoring of elections and of the observance of human rights. Nearly 100,000 men and women from all over the world are currently serving in the framework of these increasingly complex and demanding operations. The United Nations has made a commendable effort to adapt the structure and functioning of peace operations to the new exigencies. We should pursue our efforts in this direction, as we are convinced that it is always preferable to solve a conflict under the aegis of the United Nations than through the unilateral action of a Power or group of Powers outside the framework of the Organization. Here I should like to draw the Assembly’s attention to some relevant questions regarding the proper functioning of peace operations and to offer some ideas and suggestions aimed at enhancing their performance and effectiveness. Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 17 When establishing a peace operation, the Security Council should pay the utmost attention to defining accurately its mandate. The Council should also receive periodic information on the development of the operation. Consultation mechanisms should be established with those States that have a special interest, because of their involvement in the operation or their troop contributions. Special attention should also be given to questions of safety. Acts of violence against the Blue Helmets have increased alarmingly because of the growing complexity and risks of the operations. The issue of safety should be considered most seriously. In this regard we have examined with the greatest interest the Secretary-General’s report to the Security Council and the recommendations of the Special Committee on Peace-keeping Operations. We believe that the use of force against United Nations personnel must be regarded as unacceptable interference in the exercise of the responsibilities entrusted to the Security Council by the Charter. When such acts occur, the Council should take appropriate measures, the first of which should be to hold responsible the perpetrators of the acts. The Spanish Government considers it imperative that the appropriate financial resources be made available to the United Nations in timely fashion to meet the cost of these operations. We all share the responsibility for ensuring a sound financial and administrative basis for peace operations. Before a new operation is established, an estimate of its financial implications should be presented to the Council. A the same time, the task assigned to the Security Council in terms of peace-keeping and peace enforcement should not lead us to forget the competence of the General Assembly on budgetary questions and in the field of preventive diplomacy, especially peace-building. With the cooperation of United Nations operational activities, the General Assembly must play an important role in this overall approach to international security, as is referred to by the Secretary-General in his 'An Agenda for Peace'. Neither should the Secretariat be overlooked. Its structure and logistical capacity for managing peace operations need to be reviewed and expanded. We applaud the Secretary-General’s efforts in this respect. Aware of the crucial importance taken on by peace operations, Spain - which has participated and continues to participate through a large number of military and civilian observers in various operations, particularly in Central America and southern Africa - decided a year ago to send a military contingent of about 1,000 soldiers to Bosnia and Herzegovina as part of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR). Within the framework of the increasingly necessary cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations, my country sent observers to help in monitoring compliance with the sanctions imposed against Serbia and Montenegro and is maintaining naval units in the Adriatic. Spanish personnel also take part in the observer missions of the European community and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). The people and the Government of Spain are proud of the work being done by our forces and observers. I wish to take this opportunity to pay tribute to those who have given their blood and their lives while serving in these peaceful humanitarian missions of the Organization. Since the beginning of the terrible conflict in the former Yugoslavia the Spanish people and Government have done their best to alleviate the suffering of the population and have contributed, within the framework of the Security Council and the International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia, to the development of a political process aimed at achieving a peaceful solution acceptable to all parties. We have all been appalled by the cruelty of that war and frustrated by the endless negotiations. It is only fitting to acknowledge the splendid work accomplished, under extremely difficult circumstances, by the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR). We would also express gratitude for the skill and dedication of the co-Chairmen of the Steering Committee of the International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia. Provided they can rely on the parties’ basic goodwill and capacity for compromise, their efforts should lead to an agreement before this coming winter brings with it a dreadful human catastrophe. If the hoped for agreement is reached, the international community and the Organization will then be faced with a new challenge, that of guaranteeing implementation of the peace agreement through the establishment of a peace-keeping operation under the auspices and authority of the United Nations. Spain would be prepared to contribute to such a force. This year the Security Council decided to establish an International Tribunal to bring to trial those charged with serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. We believe that this crucial step will also encourage at this session of the General Assembly the speedy completion of 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session work leading to the establishment of a permanent international criminal tribunal with universal jurisdiction. In the past few months important developments have taken place in various other parts of the world. My Government is following with anxiety and hope the recent events in Russia - with anxiety, because at one time it appeared that the internal stability of that country and, therefore, of Europe and the rest of the world, was in jeopardy, but also with hope that the Russian people themselves will become the masters of their own destiny. We are concerned about the worsening conflict in Abkhazia and the continued confrontation in Nagorny- Karabakh between Armenians and Azerbaijanis. We appeal to the wisdom and capacity for dialogue of all the parties involved and reiterate our support for the peace efforts of the United Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). In Angola the process of restoring democratic normality and coexistence has been seriously hampered by UNITA’s refusal to accept the outcome of free and fair elections, thus preventing the implementation of the Bicesse Accords. This has compelled the Security Council to impose sanctions on UNITA in the hope that its leadership will reconsider its attitude and begin to cooperate in good faith to put an end to a conflict of catastrophic human proportions. We wish to recall that a number of the problems arising from the war between Iraq and Kuwait are still unresolved, among them the exchange of prisoners and the return of stolen assets by the invader. The fact that Iraq has not yet recognized either the existence of Kuwait as a sovereign State, Member of the United Nations, the demarcation of the border between the two countries, which was recently confirmed by the Security Council, constitutes a serious obstacle to peace. The persistence of those and other conflicts should not make us forget the progress achieved in the solution of many others. Here we would especially mention the success achieved in Cambodia through the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC), with the holding last May of elections for a Constituent Assembly, elections that paved the way to national unity and reconciliation. In the Middle East, the serious obstacles that were threatening to scuttle the peace process launched two years ago in Madrid have been overcome. The mutual recognition between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), along with the signing in Washington on 13 September of an Agreement on the establishment of an autonomous Palestinian regime in Jericho and Gaza, is a development of far-reaching significance. Spain welcomes this fundamental step in the tortured history of the Middle East and is prepared, together with other countries, to maintain its political and economic support in order to ensure that the Agreement between the Palestinians and Israelis becomes effective. We are aware that the process is fraught with difficulties, but we believe that they can be surmounted with the same courage and imagination already displayed in achieving the recent agreements, and with the support of the international community. In Africa, new developments have taken place, although not without some delay and difficulties. In Mozambique we have witnessed the implementation of the General Peace Agreement, with the invaluable cooperation of the United Nations Operation in Mozambique (UNOMOZ). In Somalia, the Security Council has given the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II) one of the broadest mandates ever conferred upon a United Nations operation. It cannot be denied that problems of internal adjustment have been caused by the very novelty and magnitude of the tasks entrusted to UNOSOM II, and they will have to taken into account in future peace-keeping operations. Nevertheless, the Operation’s contribution has been vital in reducing the consequences of a catastrophe caused by natural disasters and armed rivalries that have claimed hundreds of thousands of victims. Turning to the question of Western Sahara, I wish to express Spain’s full support for the efforts being made by the Secretary-General and his Special Representative to find a solution to the outstanding problems that will make possible the holding of a free and fair referendum on self- determination. That referendum will pave the way for the climate of understanding and cooperation that is necessary to deal with the challenges in the region. My country resolutely supports the process of integration in the North of Africa and the development of stronger links between Europe and the Maghreb. We also welcome the progress made in the transitional process in South Africa, although we regret the fact that violence still holds sway in certain areas. The progress made in the drafting of a Constitution and the prompt establishment of the Transitional Executive Council are the Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 19 best possible foundations for the holding of general elections in 1994 to prepare the way for a truly representative Parliament and a democratic South Africa that will be able to find its true place in the Organization and in the international community. In Latin America, a number of recent events deserve special consideration. I should mention first the process of consolidation of democracy through the free election of civilian Presidents and Parliaments in nearly the whole of the continent. That fact, enhanced by a number of forums such as the Rio Group, the Central American Summits or the Ibero- American Summits, has reversed attempts to violate the legitimacy of the democratic process. Latin America continues to place special emphasis on the use of negotiation, mediation and conciliation in solving its conflicts, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VI of the Charter. Respect for international law and democracy are the principles that have guided and will continue to guide the activities of the international community aimed at restoring democratic legality in Haiti. Those principles have also inspired the decisive agreements with regard to the peace process in El Salvador, where we hope the recommendations of the Ad Hoc Commission and the Commission on the Truth will be implemented. Finally, those same principles will be the basis for reconciliation and development in Nicaragua and Guatemala. Once again this year I have to mention a matter that, as the Assembly knows, is of fundamental importance to Spain, namely, the decolonization of Gibraltar. I wish to reiterate my Government’s firm decision to continue the process of negotiation with the United Kingdom in a constructive spirit and on the basis of the Brussels Declaration of 27 November 1984. Those negotiations should duly take into account the legitimate interests of the population, but be based on the doctrine established by the General Assembly that the decolonization of Gibraltar is not a case of self- determination but of the restoration of the territorial integrity of Spain. The Spanish Government firmly hopes that those negotiations will finally eliminate this anachronism. In the field of disarmament new challenges have emerged, such as the need to put an end to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Now, more than ever, we need to redouble our efforts to move beyond a period of confrontation that belongs to the past. There is a pressing need to strengthen the multilateral negotiating forums to enable them to face the new challenges efficiently. In this respect, my country considers that priority should be given to enlarging the Conference on Disarmament, on the basis of a consensus that will enable countries like Spain, which have been participating actively in its work for a long time, to become members. There is a clear link between international peace and security on the one hand and economic and social development on the other. In this new era, when the United Nations is renewing its efforts to maintain international peace and security, we must note the persistence of deep disparities and serious economic and social problems besetting all countries, in particular the developing countries. To confront these challenges, the reform of the United Nations should extend to the Organization’s economic and social machinery. The reforms, which have already begun, should be aimed at achieving more effective functioning and at using available resources more rationally to meet the needs of developing countries. In that context, let me mention the convening of the first session of the Commission on Sustainable Development. We hope its work will maintain and even intensify the great momentum generated by the Rio Summit on environment and development and lead to the speedy implementation of the commitments made there in Agenda 21. But it is not enough to repair and fine-tune the machinery we intend to use to deal with the challenges of development. We need clear guidelines by which to steer it unerringly towards the wide range of current needs, in particular those of the developing countries. Hence, we look forward with great interest to the Secretary-General’s 'Agenda for Development'; in conjunction with 'An Agenda for Peace', this will supplement the guidelines for action by the international community with respect to the indivisible equation of world peace and economic and social development. In that context, I want to recall that the third Ibero-American Summit, held at Salvador de Bahía, Brazil, last July, considered 'An agenda for development', with the emphasis on social development. The conclusions adopted by the Heads of State or Government of the 21 participating countries were submitted to the Secretary-General as a contribution to the preparation of his own 'Agenda for Development'. The final document of that Summit stressed the growing interrelationship among the concepts of development, democracy and human rights. It drew attention to the priority that should be given to the fight against poverty both on the governmental level and when allocating resources and creating machinery for international cooperation. Our starting-point should be to promote integrated economic and social development, bearing in mind the three priorities the Secretary-General set out at the last session of the Economic and Social Council: redistribution, integration and protection. The structure of and developments in the world population give rise to grave uncertainties about their consequences and about the aspirations of developing countries to attain sustainable development. These and other important issues such as large-scale migration, improving the machinery for cooperation, and managing resources for that purpose will be discussed at the International Conference on Population and Development to be held next year at Cairo. We hope that Conference will mark a significant step towards the solution of these questions by addressing together the issues of population, economic growth and sustainable development. The Spanish Government considers that there is also an urgent need to integrate women into the development process, eliminate discrimination against women and ensure their full participation in the economic, social, cultural, civic and political spheres. We trust that this commitment will be renewed and buttressed by the international community at the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing in 1995. The World Summit for Social Development, the convening of which my country strongly supported from the outset, is to be held at Copenhagen in 1995. It will give a political impetus to improving the living conditions of the most disadvantaged sectors of our populations. It will help promote their social integration and the creation of a concept of social development taking into account the relationship between peace and well-being, while aiming to reduce poverty and increase employment. Year after year from this rostrum we emphasize our firm intention to build a better world in which the protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms will become real and effective. Unfortunately, year after year we are forced to observe that, despite all our efforts, the practices that endanger human life, freedom and security persist. It is therefore no longer enough to state our readiness to step up our efforts; we must now move, in solidarity, to action. In that respect, the outcome of the Vienna Conference on human rights gives us an excellent opportunity to work steadfastly towards our common goal. We now have a set of universal rules, universally accepted; we must now insist on their obligatory application. There can be no democracy without respect for human rights, and without democracy there cannot be the harmonious, balanced and lasting development to which we all aspire. For that reason, it is of high importance that we proceed expeditiously to implement the Vienna commitments, in particular the programme of action. In the view of the Spanish Government there are two key issues the resolution of which could lead to unprecedented progress in this area. First, we must agree on the establishment of the office of a high commissioner for human rights; and secondly, we must provide the United Nations Centre for Human Rights with the resources it needs to carry out its mandate fully. In my statement today I have tried to address the most pressing challenges facing the Organization, challenges inherent in the increasingly free but increasingly uncertain world in which we live. I have also advanced proposals for the reform of the Organization aimed at adapting it to the new circumstances. It is difficult but necessary that we focus both on the new problems and on the reform of the Organization. Our ability to do this will determine whether the United Nations can increasingly serve as the proper forum for resolving world problems. On behalf of the delegation of the Commonwealth of Dominica, I am honoured to congratulate you, Sir, and your country, the Cooperative Republic of Guyana, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I am particularly pleased that this position is held this year, for the first time, by a national of a country that is a member of the Caribbean Community and I have no doubt that your intellect and wide experience as one of the Caribbean’s most outstanding diplomats will ensure excellence in the performance of your duties. I assure you of the full cooperation of the delegation of the Commonwealth of Dominica in the conduct of the affairs of this General Assembly. The Commonwealth of Dominica wishes to congratulate Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Monaco and the Slovak Republic on their admission to membership of the United Nations. The international community is, in the words of Secretary- General Boutros Boutros-Ghali: 'Humanity’s best hope in the pursuit of peace, development and human rights'. (A/48/1, para. 513) We therefore welcome these new Members as they join in the commitment to world peace, development and support for democracy and human rights. The universality of membership is an important principle of the United Nations. We believe that, in keeping with this principle and in accordance with the established pattern of parallel representation of divided countries in the United Nations, the exceptional case of the Republic of China on Taiwan should be seriously considered by the international community at the next session of the General Assembly. The Republic of China on Taiwan, with its rich natural and human resources could, if given the opportunity, make a significant contribution to the international community. Its people are also entitled to enjoy the rights enjoyed by all populations of the Members of this world body. The Commonwealth of Dominica therefore supports the efforts of the Republic of China on Taiwan to obtain full membership of the United Nations after being unable to participate for 22 years. Permit me to congratulate Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali on his ongoing reform efforts aimed at streamlining the operations of the United Nations. The state of the Organization’s finances is an issue which should be of concern to all its Members. In that regard the Commonwealth of Dominica is making every effort to honour its financial commitments to the Organization. As the international community takes on greater responsibilities in its efforts to establish a more stable world order, restructuring the Organization with improved cost effectiveness is becoming ever more critical. The Organization must do its utmost to avoid wasting limited resources. However, the effect of cost-cutting on the interests of small developing countries needs to be examined closely. While the United Nations becomes more active in peace-keeping in various parts of the world, programmes aimed at assisting developing countries must not be allowed to suffer. We firmly believe that the right to development is an inalienable right, a right of every human person and of all peoples. Dominica’s economy is entirely dependent, at the present time, on the banana industry and on favoured access to our traditional markets in Europe. Our industry, vital to the survival of the Dominican people, is being threatened by the major banana producers of Latin America, although the Windward Islands industry accounts for only 2 per cent of the world’s production of bananas. A threat to the banana industry in Dominica is also a threat to the fundamental human rights of its people as the collapse of this industry could lead to economic collapse, social upheaval and political disaster. The same prospect looms over the other Windward Islands of St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenada, with consequential effects on the other States of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS). Indeed, just last week we heard of serious unrest in St. Lucia as a direct consequence of adverse trends in banana prices. This is an augury of what could happen in any or all of the Windward Islands. We call on the international community to support Dominica in its efforts to ensure the survival of its economy and the protection of its peoples’ political, civil, economic, social and cultural rights. More particularly, I call on our Latin American neighbours to honour the spirit of the Declaration of Managua and to take into account the severely adverse impact on the economies of OECS States that their policies on bananas, not critical to their own economies, are likely to have on ours. Democracy and human rights have been a priority of the world community since the inception of the United Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 15 Nations. Over the years there has been much debate on the universality of human rights and its indivisibility from, and link to, development. The decision of the General Assembly, by its resolution 45/155, to convene the Vienna Conference to deal with crucial issues surrounding the promotion and protection of human rights was timely and significant. Dominica applauds the efforts of those who worked towards the success of this important and historic Conference. I am particularly proud of Dominica’s participation in the preparatory process as well as in the World Conference, which is an indication of our full commitment to the universalization of respect for human rights and the preservation of democracy. Representatives at the World Conference gave a clear signal that it is necessary to increase financial and other resources to the United Nations Centre for Human Rights and the regional Commissions in order to reinforce their ability to provide greater technical cooperation between the United Nations and regional and national human rights institutions. As the focal point for human rights activities of the United Nations and the primary organizational institution within the Secretariat for the implementation of the human rights programme, the Centre for Human Rights must be provided with adequate means for carrying out its mandate. On the international scene, the breakthroughs made in the Middle East and South Africa must be celebrated. Recent decisions taken by the leaders of those countries are encouraging and augur well for the future. The Madrid peace process launched in 1991 has not been in vain. Dominica noted with great satisfaction and pleasure the signing of the peace agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization - an agreement which will serve to secure a firm foundation for the mutual recognition of the Israeli and Palestinian peoples. We sincerely hope that this agreement will eventually bring an end to the persistent violence and conflict that have plagued the Middle East for over four decades. One year ago in this body, Dominica called for constructive and open dialogue between the African National Congress and the Pretoria regime in an effort to arrive at an early agreement on majority rule in South Africa. President De Klerk and Nelson Mandela’s recent actions are a clear indication of their interest in peaceful progress towards a truly just and democratic society in the affairs of that country. The finalization of the demarcation of the boundary between Kuwait and Iraq is a step towards the enhancement of stability and security in that region. We welcome the adoption of Security Council resolution 833 (1993), in which the inviolability of this boundary is guaranteed, and we call upon Iraq to respect the terms of the resolution. It is indeed disheartening that while progress is being made in the protection of human rights in certain parts of the world, the rights of the people of our Caribbean sister island, Haiti, continue to be violated even after moves by members of the international community to suspend sanctions against Haiti. Dominica, acting on Security Council resolution 861 (1993), ordered the immediate suspension of all sanctions against Haiti, following the confirmation of Robert Malval as Prime Minister. The Governors Island Agreement of July 1993 offered a glimmer of hope for the restoration of democracy and constitutional order in that country and for the eventual return of President Aristide to power. These hopes were shattered by the actions of those who officially sanction violence, threatening the lives of constitutionally appointed officials. The members of the de facto regime must understand that the international community will not stand idly by if the terms of the Governors Island Agreement are not respected. If the parties in Haiti fail to comply in good faith with this Agreement, Dominica will be ready to reactivate sanctions in keeping with the United Nations resolution to that effect. We will also do whatever we can within our limited resources to contribute to the restoration of democracy in Haiti. In that regard, Dominica is willing to contribute to the civilian police and training contingent to Haiti to assist in the return of President Aristide to the full exercise of his constitutional office and the stabilization of Haiti. In the meantime, we support President Aristide’s call for the immediate replacement of the Chief of Police, a precondition to the security of the officials of the legitimate regime in that country. The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Somalia continues to be cause for concern to all those who support the promotion and protection of human rights. We deplore the human tragedy resulting from ethnic differences and more specifically the barbaric torture and killing of hundreds of innocent people. We also condemn recent events in Nigeria, which demonstrate a lack of respect for the wishes of the people and a violation of their rights to participate in the affairs of their country. While we are focusing on the subject of human rights, it is fitting that we make reference to the International Year of the World’s Indigenous People launched on 10 December 1992. The rights of indigenous people all over the world continue to be violated as they fight to preserve their culture and identity. This is of particular concern to us in Dominica as our country is one of the few countries with an 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session indigenous Carib population, a courageous and hard-working people with a rich history and culture. I urge the international community to lend its support to programmes and activities designed to allow for the participation of our indigenous peoples and other minorities in every aspect of the life of our countries. We in the Caribbean should have a special interest in this matter when we recall that within 28 years of the arrival of Christopher Columbus in our part of the world, the entire indigenous population of the Bahamas had been wiped out by the European conquerors. The failure of the industrialized nations to contribute significantly to the special fund is a matter of deep regret, which can yet be reversed. Dominica has played a vital role in the regional and international effort to include women fully in the development process and it hopes to participate in the Fourth World Conference on Women to be held in Beijing in 1995. We are particularly concerned about the needs and situations of our indigenous women and the necessity for special programmes to address these needs. I wish to express satisfaction at the establishment of a regional office of the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM) in the Caribbean and look forward to its support and cooperation in all aspects of women’s affairs. General Assembly resolutions 46/91, 46/94 and 45/106 called for a set of global targets on ageing for the year 2001 to provide a pragmatic focus for the broad goals of the International Plan of Action and to accelerate implementation of the Plan. In accordance with the aforementioned resolutions, a National Committee on Ageing was established in Dominica. The Committee is responsible for developing a national plan of action and making inputs into a regional plan of action on ageing. We call on the international community to support programmes tailored to the needs of senior citizens in keeping with national policies. The sustainability of life on our planet is dependent on the importance we place on conservation of the environment. Dominica reaffirms its political commitment made at the Earth Summit held last year to pursue sustainable development. We have recently acceded to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer, and the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and its amendment, conventions which play a key role in the protection of our environment. Sustaining the environment is compatible with economic growth and development and is essential to sustainable development. However, it demands considerable additional resources which developing countries such as Dominica do not possess. We realize that we have an obligation to contribute to global solutions but additional finances are needed to assist in the many actions we will have to undertake to conserve the environment and follow sustainable developmental practices. We call on the international community to strengthen and give fuller support to institutions such as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) which are concerned with assisting developing countries to achieve sustainable development. We also call on the industrialized countries to offer greater assistance to developing countries in the latter’s efforts to make the transition to environmentally friendly technologies and economic activity. The industrialized countries of the world, which have disproportionately contributed to the environmental devastation that has occurred over the past 200 years, must take seriously their responsibility to contribute to the Global Environment Facility. The ability of developing countries to contribute to environmental sustainability depends on this. Dominica welcomes the decision of the United Nations to organize the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States in Barbados in 1994. We intend to participate fully in this laudable effort. The United Nations now offers hope for a future of peace, security and development. Let us not allow our legitimate emphasis on peacemaking and peace-keeping to divert our attention from the equally legitimate demands of the developing world for development and security. The delegation of Dominica salutes you, Mr. President, and wishes you a very successful presidency of this session of the General Assembly. For the Haitian delegation, the assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly by, for the first time ever, a representative of the Caribbean is a source of pride and satisfaction. I should like to convey to you, Mr. President, the warm congratulations of the President, the Government and the people of the Republic of Haiti on your unanimous election and their best wishes for success in your endeavours. Your selection is undoubtedly a manifestation of the well-founded acknowledgement of your eminent personal qualities and rich diplomatic experience, and also attests to the growing role of your country, the Republic of Guyana, in international relations. I wish also to congratulate your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, who successfully directed the Assembly’s work at its forty-seventh session. This is also an opportunity for me to express our profound appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his remarkable efforts in the cause of peace and for the new dynamics that he has stamped on the Organization. As the century draws to a close, history is being made at a remarkable pace. Every day there are important events that put international life on a new course because of the profound impact they have on the destiny of peoples. It seems to us that, at the dawn of the third millennium, the world is seeking new direction. Respect for the person, the need for democracy and fundamental freedoms and the climate of peace to which peoples throughout the world aspire: these concepts are taking concrete form in major events that attract our attention today. In the search for a new dimension to give to peace, leaders in various parts of the world have begun a dialogue that, in the past, was thought impossible. This is the case in the Middle East, where, after decades of hostility, Israelis and Palestinians have embarked on the path to a historic rapprochement, which we hope will be of benefit to the two peoples and the entire region. Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 9 Likewise, recent developments in South Africa - notably the establishment of the Transitional Executive Council and the announcement that free elections are to be held on 27 April 1994 on the basis of universal suffrage - signal the long-awaited building of a multi-racial, democratic and united society. Following two decades of civil war, Cambodia is at last experiencing a period of peace. This has made possible the holding of democratic general elections and the establishment of a legitimate Government. After 12 years of armed conflict, El Salvador, with the signing of the Mexico Agreements, is moving towards the consolidation of peace. We must note that, in all continents, considerable progress is being made in the search for peace, although the existence of hotbeds of tension of all types - fuelled by, among other factors, racial, ethnic, tribal or clan differences - indicates that dialogue, which alone can ensure harmonious human coexistence, is not always achieved spontaneously. The United Nations has played a decisive role in the mediation aimed at securing a negotiated settlement of these crises. We support the Secretary-General’s sustained efforts to contribute to the process of bringing peace to these peoples, whose pain, privation and distress resonate deeply in the hearts of the Haitian people. There is no doubt that the concepts of preventive diplomacy, maintenance of peace, restoration of peace and peace building that are developed in the Secretary-General’s 'Agenda for Peace' are guiding principles for this Organization in its action to guarantee international peace and security. But, in order to meet the diverse challenges confronting it and to respond to the expectations placed in it, the United Nations must adapt to a new reality and must have adequate means to do so. In this context, the Haitian delegation supports the process of reform and restructuring aimed at increasing the Organization’s effectiveness. We believe that United Nations activities in the field of economic and social development should be given at least as much attention as that accorded to peace-keeping operations. Unquestionably, the 'Agenda for Peace' provides the Organization with a point of reference, which enables us to approach the problems of peace in a global environment that is in a state of change and compels us to reflect on the question of what constitutes the very foundations of peace. Some say that peace is indissociably related to democracy and development. We share this view. Without peace, there can be no development, and, without development and respect for human rights, one cannot expect social peace. My Government, which was established as a result of the Governors Island Agreements, believes that the fundamental principles proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the Haitian Constitution should be constantly in our minds, motivating us to provide all the better for the well-being of our people. For two years the Haitian people has been waging an earnest and constant struggle for the restoration of democracy in Haiti and of the fundamental rights that were stolen from it in the coup d’état of 30 September 1991. Today, thanks to the constant support of the international community, we are on the eve of turning this painful page in the history of our country. In this respect, we should like to express warm thanks to the Special Envoy of the United Nations Secretary-General and the Organization of American States for his inestimable achievement. We hope that we shall be able to continue to cooperate with him towards securing a definitive settlement of the Haitian crisis. As members know, the Governors Island Agreement was signed on 3 July 1993. That instrument sets the modalities for the restoration of constitutional order and democracy in Haiti. On 30 August a Prime Minister, chosen in accordance with our Constitution, took office, and a consensus Government was established. The economic measures that had been adopted by the Security Council were suspended, and they will be lifted definitively at the end of the transitional process. Technical assistance, to strengthen the institutions and to consolidate democracy, is taking shape through the United Nations Mission in Haiti, which is already beginning to be deployed. With a view to fostering national reconciliation,t h e President of the Republic has granted an amnesty in respect of political offences committed during the period of the coup d’état. Other steps remain to be taken before October 30, when His Excellency Mr. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the democratically elected President, returns to Haiti to take up again the mandate conferred upon him by the Haitian people. None the less, recent events, characterized by an upsurge of violence, greatly discredit the political will of the other party to respect scrupulously all the terms of the Governors Island Agreement and the New York Pact. Just a few hours ago, armed groups demonstrated at Port-au- 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Prince to oppose the arrival of the members of the technical mission of the United Nations. The national radio station was under assault by armed individuals manifestly opposed to a peaceful settlement of the crisis. Such behaviour clearly jeopardizes the success of the Governors Island Agreement. The setting up of such institutionalized mechanisms of violence and intimidation by factions opposing the establishment of democracy and the growing number of human-rights violations worry us, because they reveal the deliberate bad faith of institutions whose function it is precisely to safeguard security and our citizens’ exercise of their rights. Aware that this situation cannot go on, we send out from this rostrum a sincere appeal to all those who wish in good will to build a better life today and a better future for the children of Haiti and to give to our country an opportunity to renew its path of progress. We also appeal to the international community to maintain its pressure so that the minority forces opposing the democratic aspirations of the Haitian people will find themselves completely isolated and so that they will have no choice other than dialogue and reconciliation. The return of constitutional order in Haiti is part of the genuine international political plan for which we have fought, and it symbolizes at the same time an effort for a democratization process in Haiti and, at the world level, the triumph of law, supported by the moral solidarity of the international community. The free and honest elections of 16 December 1990, which brought President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power, represent the country’s first democratic experience since its independence, the first application of the Haitian Constitution of 1987 and, above all, the first step towards guaranteeing the rights of the citizen. Our experiences over the past two years have convinced us that the protection of democracy and fundamental rights is a cause that transcends our national borders and takes on an international dimension. The return of constitutional order in Haiti will be a victory of the State and the rule of law over totalitarianism and imposture, an ongoing struggle that unites us all and makes it possible for us to confront those who jeopardize peace. We know that in the absence of democracy and, therefore, in the absence of the institutions and structures of the rule of law, the protection of human rights would be quixotic and ineffectual, especially in my country. This democracy requires real participation, pluralistic and transparent. This democracy, in our view, cannot mean only the holding of periodic elections; it means, rather, a collective way of life in an adapted economy. The invaluable support of the international community will make possible the return of constitutional order in my country, and we shall apply all our national resources to the construction of a State where the rule of law genuinely prevails, a State that does not content itself merely with guaranteeing public freedoms, but that also seeks to promote equality and solidarity. This is the challenge we shall try to meet, because we firmly believe that a State in which all its children cannot live because of dictatorship and barbarism is unacceptable at the dawning of the twenty-first century. The political stakes the international community must face are compounded by economic, social and cultural challenges. Poverty, ignorance and the scourge of disease are still negative factors threatening the very cohesion of States and continuing to cause gross imbalances in the countries of the South, especially the least developed among them. An unbridled imitation of Western models has led some countries to ignore almost completely the value of their heritage of creativity and wisdom and their enterprising spirit. The result is the absence of a cultural dimension of development and a lack of participation by an important sector of their societies: the most impoverished sector, which is unable to protest, or to protect its own interests, a sector made up especially of women, children and the masses of disenfranchised poor. Efforts have been made at the national, regional and international levels. A certain amount of progress has been achieved. In spite of all that, the values proposed - entrepreneurship, growth, profit and so on - remain inaccessible to the great majority of people living in the countries of the South. This poses a grave threat to one of the very cornerstones of human rights: the right to development. Day by day the world is becoming increasingly interdependent and, in a sense, increasingly integrated. We are confronting a profound transition that promises to be complex and hazardous. We must do our best so that this globalization, this world economy, will not further widen the gap between North and South. The absence of an equitable system is being felt increasingly. The South remains in a position of subordination and dependence which prevents it from managing this new world order well. Global initiatives are indeed necessary. As we approach the twenty-first century a profound reform of the international system, particularly in the fields of trade, finance and technology, has become vitally important. I do mean profound reform, Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 11 a reform that will bring about a restructured dialogue between North and South; a reform that will lead to viable and sustainable economic growth for the countries of both North and South, a growth which will be measured not only by growth in gross national product but also by certain social and political achievements; the access by all without any discrimination to fundamental services such as food, health- care, housing and appropriate education; and access to a democratic form of government and effective system of justice to protect all the people. Lasting, bold and courageous solutions must be found if we truly want to lift the barriers that prevent the economic development of the group of countries to which we belong. The questions of debt, delays in the flow of technology, of capital, and of direct investment to the countries of the South, the constant decline in the prices of commodities, worsening access to markets and deterioration in the terms of trade are all questions that need to be discussed seriously by the international community if we are to arrive at a better balanced, new international economic order. The Republic of Haiti, which over the past two years has experienced a situation that the Security Council described as unique and exceptional, is now at a crossroads. In order to restore the process of democracy and the rule of law in the country the population of Haiti and its legitimate Government have made enormous sacrifices. These sacrifices, together with a long history of corruption, denial of rights, and plundering, have led to disaster at the economic, social and environmental levels. Whole sectors of national production have been destructured and the environment has been dramatically affected. The social cost of a return to democracy is extremely high and has therefore in advance jeopardized all future endogenous development efforts. That is why we ask for the unfailing support and backing of the international community, which, we feel, should in the short-, medium- and long-term involve substantial, increased and strengthened technical and financial cooperation. The time has come to transform the vast upsurge of solidarity which we have seen in the course of the past two years, into a powerful, concerted effort at open, fruitful and substantially enhanced cooperation. The Organization, better than anyone, is aware of the breadth of the challenges today confronting the Government of Haiti. It would be futile to hope for a strengthening of the rule of law, which remains our priority objective, if we are not able rapidly to alleviate the enormous distress facing the overwhelming majority of the Haitian people. We want to be assured that today as in the past the Organization will continue to stand by us at this crucial stage, as a result of which socio-economic conditions should be substantially improved in a Haiti that is reconciled with itself and in which rights and freedoms flourish. While we recognize that no price can be placed on peace we do believe that it requires dialogue and reconciliation, without which the process of transition cannot lead to lasting democracy. The fashioning of a new world has been the shared responsibility of us all since the founding of the Organization in 1945. At the San Francisco Conference the Haitian delegation, imbued with the historic responsibility of being the first black republic in the world, had understood, above and beyond the inspiration of the day which led to the establishment of the United Nations, that the Organization represented an opportunity not only for our island nation but also for all responsible countries that would join this community of nations. We want to take this opportunity to extend a warm welcome to the new Member States and we hope that the ad hoc committee which is to study the question of Taiwan will find a solution that is satisfactory to all the parties concerned, in keeping with the fundamental principles of international law. Let us take the tremendous opportunity being given to us today to build the new world that generations of men and women are awaiting; let us take this opportunity to help each other by establishing a continuous dialogue between North and South in order to find urgent responses and solutions to the problem of underdevelopment and poverty, that ailment of our century which has shaken mankind. May dialogue become our password. I come from a free, small and sovereign island in Latin America. My ancestors were able to shed the yoke of a colonial empire and achieve an independence that, since the moment of its birth, has been burdened by the interventionist impositions of a foreign power. I belong to a people that was able, for several generations, to forge an authentic revolution, which also opened the path to hope for other peoples of the Third World. For these reasons, and as a Caribbean people, we are doubly proud of having you, Mr. President, presiding over this session. Because you are a son of that South that makes us brothers, we are convinced that that world and its hopes will not be ignored once again. In that just aspiration you will certainly find Cuba’s support. Conditions in the world have radically changed in less than five years. Bipolar balance is being replaced by unipolar hegemony. The world is increasingly plagued by still insuperable contradictions between words and deeds. While it is said that the threat of a nuclear holocaust has disappeared, the poverty and underdevelopment that cause misery and death are continuing. Millions of men, women and children die every day, with no possibility of being saved. It is said that the arms race between the superPowers has ended but, increasingly, there is a rush to develop new weapons systems and even to introduce them to outer space. Today, the warlords aspire to rule the skies without having resolved many of the problems on Earth. Paradoxically, they argue that they lack the resources to do so, while the world today is becoming increasingly ungovernable because of them. The total budget of the World Health Organization equals the expenditures caused by three hours of the arms race. How can hunger in Somalia be alleviated, for example, if for every dollar used to feed the hungry, $10 are spent on the maintenance of military operations in that country? The existence of treaties on a partial ban of nuclear tests and on a moratorium, or on the non-proliferation of such weapons, is not enough. A single agreement would suffice, one providing for general and complete disarmament and for the use of the enormous resources that would thus cease to be squandered for the final resolution of our planet’s serious problems. Regrettably, the end of the cold war has not resolved any of the fundamental problems facing humankind; instead, it has created many others. The sacred principles of independence and national sovereignty are being shredded to pieces, and are guaranteed only to a few powerful countries whose views prevail even in this lofty Organization. The United Nations was created, among other objectives, for the achievement of a lasting peace, justice and equality in international relations. Some things have been done, but much remains to be done for the benefit of human beings and of peoples. While the longstanding problems of the Third World persist and become more acute, aggravated by stagnation in development assistance, what peace can we speak of? While unequal exchange, external debt and the transfer of resources from developing to developed countries - to mention but a few examples - still persist, will there truly be peace? While protectionist and discriminatory practices in international trade prevail, and the terms of trade of developing countries continue to deteriorate, will we honestly be able to achieve justice? Only through effective cooperation, radically restructuring present international economic relations, would poor nations be allowed to develop and to grow. The initiatives adopted by the Organization by consensus are countless yet we continue to be ignored by the most powerful countries. The new international economic order, three international development strategies, four United Nations development decades, at least four special sessions of the General Assembly, a number of conferences on population, environment, habitat, and even the Rio de Janeiro Conference itself exemplify hopes placed by peoples the world over in the United Nations, but without tangible results. The selfishness and lack of political will faced by the poor of this Earth, the children of colonialism, racism, plundering and foreign intervention, are truly disappointing. 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session On the other hand, neo-liberal doctrines are now rampant in the assistance programmes of the Organization, proclaiming only the virtues of the market and of private enterprise. Defending only these options means separating populations of developing countries from the real production of wealth. This accentuates the inequalities, attacks true democracy, social development and the right of human beings to achieve a productive and dignified life. We the countries of the South are no more than statistics to the North. Meticulous studies are carried out to determine that we will be born in greater numbers, that more of us will fall to disease and that more of us will die. The quality of life of the generations that have been born and have died while I speak would demand that those bulky files where tragedies are noted in detail, would also have the power to feed and heal the needy. Simply knowing that we are dying in the countries of the South on this planet will not prevent us from being buried. The surviving third world has once again placed its hopes in the preparation of an agenda for development and is awaiting with interest the Secretary-General’s report on the subject. A new frustration would be a luxury for which we would never be forgiven by this suffering humanity. The World Summit for Social Development to be held in 1995 will also provide us with a new opportunity to place human beings at the centre of the United Nations efforts, and to give this subject the priority it deserves in the work of the United Nations. The world we live in is condemned to a gradual destruction that can only be stopped by our collective wisdom. The right to life, the most basic of human rights, is constantly threatened by the progressive deterioration of the ozone layer, by the pollution of the environment and its underground and surface waters, by the exhaustion of arable land and by the constant increase in the legions of the undernourished and underemployed. This dehumanizing cruelty is the result of what is mistakenly called contemporary industrial civilization. Together with these lacerating realities, humanity is facing other challenges which, though different, are no less complex. Recently, the World Conference on Human Rights concluded by reaffirming the universality, interdependence and indivisibility of those rights. That Conference rightly reiterated that the issue must be dealt with in an objective, impartial and non-selective manner. Attempts are made to say that the majority of violations of human rights originate in the impoverished countries of the South, while an overwhelming majority of their accusers come from the affluent countries of the North. It seems that those who claim to be the resolute defenders of certain individual freedoms, also include among those freedoms, and with equal ease, the violence that increasing neo-fascist and racist currents are unleashing in their own societies. Has that North not been the source, and now more than ever, of discrimination against migrant workers, against the increasingly dispossessed strata of society and against national minorities? Who are the main beneficiaries of the trade in human organs? Where are the deviant practices of pornography and child prostitution, of drug addiction and the sale of minors, most common? Are these by chance the individual freedoms they defend with such zeal? Why are they not equally intransigent in defence of the right to eat, to work, to learn, to live a healthy life, to not suffer discrimination by reason of sex or race, in other words the most basic rights of a human being? We all recognize the responsibility of the United Nations in the field of the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms in accordance with the United Nations Charter. There are United Nations bodies that can adequately carry out this responsibility if attempts are not made to assign them functions with which they are incompatible, if they are allowed to work objectively and without political conditions, and if they are based on cooperation and not imposition. This role must not and cannot be distorted. Thus, the idea of creating a high commissioner for human rights should be considered with all necessary care and without undue haste, which we could in the future regret. In a similar context, those who reap benefits from the existing international order are introducing into it their own ideology. They are trying to impose those norms of political, economic and social organization most likely to preserve that order and irrationally defend their ideas regarding the links between democracy, human rights and the market economy, a new trilogy that masks the sufferings of millions of persons. It is necessary firmly to reject any and all attempts to decide unilaterally on these issues of vital interest to all peoples, and avoid their becoming new sources of conflict, new obstacles to international cooperation and the unifying role that humanity today expects of the United Nations. Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993 11 In order to fulfil the purposes enshrined in the United Nations Charter and to allow the Organization to contribute to ensuring peace, cooperation and development, it is urgent to democratize the United Nations. This would facilitate the finding of solutions to the malformations with which the United Nations was born and with which it developed, and its transformation into an Organization devoted to truly strengthening cooperation among peoples. It is not acceptable that at the dawn of the twenty-first century, the United Nations continues to respond to the interests of a handful of Powers. The United Nations has not been and is not democratic. A veto privilege linked with the might of States is inadmissible, above all if the Security Council can become a docile instrument in the hands of a few Powers, a risk which is present now more than ever before. There is nothing more insecure in this world, and I say this in all sincerity, than the Security Council. The full democratization of the Security Council would require, among other measures, that all its members be subject to periodic democratic elections, as is now the case with non-permanent members. It would also require the elimination of the veto privilege and the establishment of a single category of members, which would be consistent with the principle of the sovereign equality of States that must become, once and for all, the cornerstone of the activities of the Organization. We are, nevertheless, conscious of the obstacles that at present prevent us from achieving that objective, and we consider it not only feasible, but indeed indispensable, to progress in that direction. The number of peoples present in this Hall has almost quadrupled since 1945. It is therefore necessary to institute a new order in the United Nations. Cuba favours an increase in the membership of the Council to reach a proportion, with respect to the total membership of the United Nations, that is as close as possible to that existing in 1945, and favours also a tripling of the number of permanent members so that Latin America, the Caribbean, Africa and Asia would have more than two seats in that category, as is now the case for Europe. Suffice it to say that more than 3,700 million inhabitants of those continents, that is, two thirds of humankind, do not enjoy that privilege. It is also essential for the principle of equitable geographical distribution to be ever present in the Security Council, and not only among the non-permanent members but among the totality of its membership. By so doing, we would be advancing one step farther towards democratization of the Council’s membership. It is also indispensable to modify the operational mechanisms of the Council and eliminate the practice of so-called informal consultations, thereby increasing transparency in the work of the Council. This is a need that the Secretary-General recognizes in his latest report on the work of the Organization. By the same token, it is not permissible for the Council to go beyond its mandate and interfere in fields that are not within its purview. The adoption of measures to ensure greater participation by the General Assembly on issues to do with the maintenance and strengthening of international peace and security, as a means for achieving the necessary balance between the Assembly and the Security Council, cannot be postponed. We cannot disregard the fact that, under the Charter, the General Assembly is the only truly universal body in the United Nations and that this gives it special responsibilities. The Security Council acts on behalf of all the Member States represented in this Hall and is accountable to them. This accountability should therefore be implemented through substantive and analytical reports from the Council to the General Assembly that would allow the Assembly not only to systematically consider and assess the Council’s activities, but also to formulate necessary recommendations. There is undoubtedly a general will to revitalize the Organization, but this objective should be achieved through the fullest and most transparent consultations, guided, above all, by the decisions taken by Member States. Certain recent initiatives that, without any consultation or mandate whatsoever, attempt to reinvent the priorities of this Organization are cause for concern. There are even proposals that seem to consider the United Nations as a supranational body with a Secretariat acting as a universal government, and implementing actions that not only lack an appropriate legislative basis, but also confer on it prerogatives that are far removed from its legitimate nature. We call the Assembly’s attention to the dangers involved in these attempts because, if their acceptance is forced through, they would cause serious conflict that could endanger the very integrity of the Organization. 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Attention should also be called to the implementation of certain new ideas and mechanisms in the United Nations. Even if the resolutions regarding the report entitled 'An Agenda for Peace' were adopted unanimously in this Hall, their implementation is not free of dangers that could jeopardize the most sacred principles of the United Nations. Nothing in those texts can justify violations of the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of States or interference in their internal affairs. The excessive multiplication in the number of peace-keeping operations and related procedures is also cause for increasing concern. The proliferation in this type of operation is no indication that the United Nations is functioning better today than in the past; quite the contrary. In any case, it is a symptom of the grave dangers that threaten world peace and stability. The resulting financial burden that is falling on the shoulders of Member States is reaching unsustainable proportions. Hence, we must prevent this increase from becoming even more onerous for Member States, and in particular for those of the third world. In the last decade of the millennium, our world nevertheless does show some rays of light. One of these is that shed by the Ibero-American Summits, the most recent of which was recently held in the Brazilian city of Salvador da Bahia. I mention this as a valid example of fraternal discussion, in which, without anything being imposed by any party, issues of common interest were defined and coordinated. Recently also, the world learned of the signing of the Declaration that, as a preliminary measure, recognizes Palestinian autonomy over part of the occupied territories. We hope that this development constitutes an effective step towards the restoration of the legitimate right of the Palestinian people to have their own State, in their own national territory, and towards the definitive withdrawal by Israel from the other occupied Arab territories, including Jerusalem. This would be an important contribution to a definitive solution to the Middle East conflict and to the establishment of a just and lasting peace in that troubled region. Only a few days ago, in the Special Committee against Apartheid, my delegation had the honour of hearing Nelson Mandela. We are encouraged by his confidence in the future, and we hope that the process of dialogue now under way will be conducive to the establishment of a united, democratic and non-racial South Africa. We are ready to contribute, with our modest efforts, towards that end. In my country, a genuine revolution succeeded. Since the outset, it has faced hostility from its neighbour but, against all odds, it has been able to carry out, in solidarity, its humane task. We have continued our endeavour even now that international circumstances have radically changed. Cuba is inserting itself into the world economy and is opening up to foreign investment, but without the loss of any of its principles. In order to continue to safeguard the development of our people, we are also making profound changes based on the concept of preserving our independence and the gains we have already achieved. We are indeed facing serious problems as a result of an inhuman blockade, but we nevertheless continue to hold a prominent place in the fields of health, education and social security, which are guaranteed for all even in the midst of all our difficulties. The results of these efforts have been recognized this year by the United Nations and by the United Nations Children’s Fund. Attempts are being made to crush this dream. The General Assembly, at its last session, adopted resolution 47/19, regarding the necessity of ending the economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed by the United States of America against Cuba. The resolution was welcomed by international public opinion. Since then, there has been an impressive rise in world-wide solidarity towards our country, from every part of the world, from the most diverse sectors and creeds, even in those wide swaths of the population of the aggressor country that reject the measures taken by their own Government. Sympathy has increased for a people that for more than three decades has managed to resist a ferocious siege by a huge, neighbouring Power, with admirable gallantry in the midst of unimaginable deprivation. Nevertheless, in open defiance of the decision taken by the General Assembly and in defiance of world opinion, the blockade has been reinforced during the last few months by means of regulations cruelly implementing to the utmost the same laws rejected by this forum less than a year ago. The extra-territorial nature of the blockade has increased, and the pressures are on the rise. Actions have multiplied to impede or affect the links with Cuba of private and public economic entities in third countries. They aspire to defeat by hunger and disease the exemplary nation which they have not been able to vanquish by force or by siren songs. Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993 13 It must be difficult for the illustrious representatives of that great northern nation still to sustain today the thesis that their actions constitute a bilateral embargo, in the face of the irrefutable evidence that in fact those actions constitute a blockade. We have provided the Assembly with irrefutable evidence of their ambition not only to maintain but also to strengthen the blockade, to economically strangle my homeland, to undermine the sovereignty of third States and to violate the freedom of trade and navigation, to the detriment of the most fundamental principles of international law. But there is more: if this is a case of bilateral relations, then there are two blockaded peoples, that of Cuba and that of the United States. North Americans are denied an economic opportunity that would benefit them; they are denied access to the scientific advances that already guarantee the prevention and cure of diseases such as meningitis, retinitis pigmentosa, hepatitis B and vitiligo, among other achievements of our science. The right to travel freely to any place, which their Constitution confers on all citizens, is also infringed upon. The blockade’s effect on my people is even more inhuman. We are prevented from purchasing drugs essential for health; our ability to acquire resources to meet the needs for our material and social well-being is curtailed; our peace and daily life is threatened. The generation to which I belong was born and grew up under the blockade’s siege. To live in a sovereign and steadfast country is a crime for which two million children may have to pay with their lives. We affirm before the peoples of the world that there will be no possible absolution for those who commit or support this genocide, because 'to condone a crime is tantamount to committing it'. If against all logic our right were to be denied, if aggressive forces were to prevail over reason, Cubans will nevertheless always maintain their unshakeable faith in victory. We love life, and life is freedom, independence, sovereignty. We demand that the path we have chosen be respected. It is not our desire to be a model for anyone, but we will never accept either imposition or force. I know that my words will be understood in different ways, but I have said what our conscience as free human beings dictates. My words may be applauded as a matter of solidarity, courtesy or obligation, but I know that there are many who wish us to be successful, for that is what they hope for themselves. To you, Mr. President, I am thankful for having allowed me to express the feelings of a worthy people. Nearly all those who stand at this rostrum represent the dreams of their countrymen. Many who come to this Hall bring with them the hopes of their peoples, which have been shattered by violence, intolerance, selfishness or misunderstanding. But all, without exception, bring with them their own vision of the world; the sum of those visions will provide a model for the world in which we live and die and in which our children will live and grow. It is therefore a great honour for me to address once more so many men and women of all origins and all destinies. The world listens expectantly to what we say here, for the world has confidence and faith in the commitment of the United Nations to action on behalf of a better future for all mankind. Today, as we begin this session, I believe that those of us who have worked for the triumph of peace and democracy are living at a crucial moment. Without doubt, there is room for optimism, but our work is far from done. The end of bipolarism has not by itself brought the feeling that peace, progress and justice are now nearer or more possible. While bloc confrontation has disappeared, we are seeing the resurgence of harsh ancient nationalisms and fanaticisms that threaten peace and stability, and the presence of extreme poverty and social injustice in the majority of the world’s countries. Even as we meet here, thousands are dying, victims of racism, xenophobia, fratricidal wars, hatreds which have fed on themselves for centuries, territorial disputes, or the simple and terrible inability of mankind to provide everyone with that which all are promised: freedom and equal opportunity. At the same time, we feel increasing pain at the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in areas of Africa, in many Eastern European nations and in other parts of the world. During this session we will also hear of hopes and of dreams of peace and reconciliation that until now seemed impossible. I speak, for example, of the gradual abolition of racial segregation in South Africa. I point also to the fact that rivals like Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization have had the courage to declare mutual recognition and respect. That Yitzhak Rabin and Yasser Arafat can negotiate with courage and fortitude, amidst their own memories of war, proves that when history is written, the greatness of the human spirit can flourish and prevail. Although we know that the road ahead is still long and difficult, the Israelis and the Palestinians have the recognition and support of the international community for their efforts to find peace. The agreements reached are further proof that the political will to reconcile is capable of healing even the deepest wounds. Much of the history of the twentieth century has been written with the blood of victims of war, religious disputes or blind quests for power. Too much history has already been written by tyrants. The builders of the twenty-first century must be men of peace and work rather than of violence. The arms they use to build the future must not be cannons and bullets, but rather the wisdom, ingenuity and vision of men of initiative. Political activity, with its great capacity to transform reality, has in a few short years generated far-reaching changes in the former Soviet Union, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and my own region, Latin America. Never before have so many millions of people around the world enjoyed freedom. We Colombians, for example, have in just a few years achieved significant political, economic and social changes aimed at developing a new democratic century that is more open, more participatory, more pluralistic, more decentralized and more just. Our new Constitution was conceived with the participation of all sectors of public opinion, including ex-guerrillas, indigenous people, industrialists, human-rights activists, environmentalists and millions of ordinary citizens. Our 1991 Constitution is the navigational chart of a new Colombia heading for the next millennium. On the economic front, we have replaced our old model of a closed economy with an open one, in which external markets have to become, increasingly, the engines of growth. We are integrating our economy with the world and are hence demanding that other nations open their markets to our products. We are advocates of free enterprise, economic integration and free trade. The results have been very satisfactory: we have diversified and increased our exports, significantly lowered inflation, reduced unemployment and increased economic growth. On the social front, we have substantially increased public resources available for financing new programmes of investment in our people. With this effort we shall double our present per capita income by the beginning of the next decade. By that time life expectancy in Colombia will be similar to that of many industrialized countries. Our illiteracy rate will be less than 3 per cent and our infant mortality rate will be lower than 18 deaths per thousand births. In Colombia we understand that political democracy must go hand in hand with economic opportunity, because a lasting true democracy can be achieved only through economic development and social justice. It would be difficult, after all, for people who had fought so hard for freedom to find that the tough road to democracy led to poverty, marginalization or social stagnation. Political freedom with economic opportunity: this is now the definition of democracy. The developing world has placed its hopes in international trade as the instrument to create prosperity for all. In a global economy it is impossible to achieve social well-being without economic freedom, competition, productivity, efficiency and growth. Perhaps we now have, more than ever before, the conditions for an unprecedented increase in the flow of goods, services, technology and knowledge between the industrialized countries and the developing countries and, therefore, for economic growth and the creation of employment and social well-being for all. For these reasons, this hemisphere’s liberalization processes, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the Andean Group, the Group of Three, the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) and the integration of Central America and the Caribbean, are not just integrative trade agreements, but also represent real remedies for poverty. I wish to stress the importance of NAFTA as a decisive step in the right direction to liberalize trade relations, to our mutual benefit, between north and south. It is time to leave behind outdated fears and commit ourselves to a relationship that will undoubtedly result in stronger economic growth and hundreds of thousands of new jobs for all. Those of us who are supporters of an integrated, open and dynamic hemispheric economy fully support the visionary efforts of President Bill Clinton to achieve final approval of this treaty. And on a global scale it is critical to conclude the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) successfully. This will be possible only if we truly respect the multilateral character of that organization. It cannot be a matter of the most powerful agreeing among themselves about what is in their own interests. We hope for the conclusion of the Uruguay Round, but not at any cost. We seek effective solutions to address the concerns of the least developed countries, with emphasis on dismantling agricultural protectionism. We are deeply concerned that the attitude of many of the principal actors in the global economy has come to resemble dangerously that of another era, the years before the Second World War, when nations isolated themselves within their borders and produced goods for captive domestic markets. Defending at any cost the selfish interests of privileged rural minorities in the industrialized countries takes bread off the tables of millions of poor peasants who only want the right to compete on an equal footing. That selfish attitude is the greatest cause of poverty in the poor countries. We live in a world where frontiers between nations ought to be seen as points of convergence, not of division; where cries for independence should be replaced by shows of interdependence; where, for many developing nations, the euphoria of political change has passed and what is needed is economic growth and the creation of jobs. Protectionism and isolationism belong to outdated, perverse rhetoric. Do we really want to live in a world turned upside down, where the largest and strongest economies deny the smallest ones the right to compete, or where the origin of goods and services is more important than their quality or value? The world must see that open markets and free trade are perhaps the best hope for serving the collective interests of both north and south, not simply favours graciously granted to the developing world by the industrialized world. Free trade is truly good business for everyone. The economies of the developed world are made up for the most part of mature markets that have already experienced their greatest periods of expansion. The short- sightedness of protectionism lies in its ignoring the growth potential represented by investment in and trade with nations that represent the future of the world’s economy. As President of Colombia, I want to reaffirm my nation’s commitment to the defence of free trade, for we have invested in it our hopes for development and well-being. So, too, we see in free trade the best contribution that the industrialized world can make to consolidating democracy and freedom in developing countries. Colombia is asking for free trade, not economic aid; the opening of markets, not mere assistance; competition, not insurmountable barriers. From its inception, the United Nations has had the dual mission of maintaining international peace and security and of promoting the social and economic development of all peoples of the world. Even though we have been successful in advancing collective global security, we cannot say the same as concerns the areas of social welfare and economic development. Today, I call upon the international community to achieve, with courage and dedication, an agenda for development. Only then will the goal of a lasting and stable peace be reached, for without social justice, peace cannot be permanent. I should like also to mention Colombia’s renewed commitment to three issues of great global importance: the defence and promotion of human rights, the fight against organized crime and the preservation of the environment. In Colombia, we have made a major and successful effort to create a culture that promotes, respects and defends human rights. Today, we have the institutional foundations to ensure that Colombia’s society will overcome human rights violations. The efforts to strengthen Colombia’s judicial system has borne fruit. We are defeating impunity. In our fight against international organized crime, which profits from narcotics trafficking, terrorism, money-laundering, arms trafficking, the flow of illegal chemicals and various forms of corruption, my country many years ago took a clear decision: Colombia will not rest until these criminals activities are wiped from the face of our land. Innocent Colombians are continuing to lose their lives in the fight against evil multinationals. My deepest convictions and my respect for the memory of so many countrymen who have sacrificed their lives compel me to call once again on all nations to contribute to the solution of a problem that is global in its scope. My people’s brave efforts alone - or nearly so - cannot put an end to international organized crime; this will require determined action with courage and political will, on the part of many more nations. We cannot counter sophisticated international organized crime by simply developing national or bilateral strategies. We require a comprehensive, multilateral effort that focuses on legislative cooperation; coordinated initiatives; the exchange of intelligence information; a sufficient commitment of financial and human resources; cooperation in the judicial field; and, perhaps most important, strong political will. To this end, we will participate with great interest in the high-level meeting that, on our initiative, will soon take place during this plenary session. Its main purpose will be to review the global strategy against the plague of narcotics trafficking, with a view to seeking coordination of concrete measures, the renewal of specific commitments and, finally, the strengthening of the decision to continue with this joint struggle. With regard to the preservation of the environment, Colombia is fully aware of the importance of its magnificent, varied and sometimes fragile ecosystems and of its biodiversity. Accordingly, we have adopted institutional changes that will allow us to fulfil in its entirety a commitment that stems not only from our Constitution but also from our collective conscience and our stewardship of a treasure we shall not squander. Colombia supports sustainable development, respects the terms of the agreements reached at the Earth Summit and is working with its neighbours, with other nations and its own communities to devise strategies that will allow it both to benefit from and to preserve its natural resources. I wish to conclude by congratulating the President of the General Assembly, the Ambassador of Guyana, Mr. Samuel Insanally, an outstanding representative of my region. We also welcome the new States Members of the United Nations. On behalf of Colombia, we welcome them to this universal fraternity, which is enhanced by their presence. At the same time, I want publicly to express my country’s satisfaction at having coordinated the work of the Group of 77 this year. Thanks to the collaboration and harmony that prevailed among all its members, we made important advances in defence of the interests of the developing world. But the satisfaction of seeing the United Nations strengthened each year by the presence of new Members should not hinder us from reaffirming Colombia’s position in favour of the restructuring of this Organization, especially with regard to reforming the Security Council and to redefining the relationship between the General Assembly and the Security Council. We hope that in this respect an open and a democratic and multilateral debate will take place. I have come here today to ask a question that has been on the minds of all peoples, in all parts of the world, who have been on the side of the revolution of freedom: why have so many millions of people in the former Soviet Union, in Central and Eastern Europe, and in countries throughout Asia, Africa and Latin America fought so hard? What is it that so many hoped to achieve by taking, at the cost of immense sacrifices, the road to democracy and its freedoms? I believe that the only answer is that they have seen, for the first time, the possibility of transforming these dreams into realities. And they have taken that road because they want to a leave a legacy of freedom to their children and to future generations. With the help of God and our strong solidarity, we are certain that they will prevail. Before I begin my statement, I should like to offer my condolences to the Government and people of India on the natural disaster that has just struck them. I should like to assure them, on behalf of the people of Burkina Faso, that we grieve most profoundly with them. I wish, at the outset, to congratulate Mr. Insanally on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session and to wish him every success in the discharge of the important responsibilities thus made incumbent upon him. I should also like to pay a tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, for the dedication with which he presided over the work of the Assembly at its fortyseventh session. I wish also to take advantage of this opportunity to welcome the new States that have joined our Organization. We look forward to their active participation in the work of the Assembly so that we might, together, strive to preserve the peace, bring development to our peoples and ensure justice among nations. May I also convey to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the most sincere congratulations and encouragement of the Government of Burkina Faso in respect of his tireless efforts day after day to safeguard peace throughout the world and also to revitalize the United Nations system. While the ideals enshrined in the United Nations Charter remain as valid as they were on the very first day, the international community continues to suffer the aftershocks of East-West confrontation. What I said at the forty-seventh session remains true: 'The collapse of one of the two blocs did not solve the world’s problems. Rather, it emphasized the NorthSouth split; old wounds that are still open; internal contradictions within regions; and divisions among nations.' (A/47/PV.21, p. 86) In Africa, prospects run from an anxious outlook in some cases to measured hope in others. In this connection, acting on his own convictions as well as on those of Burkina Faso as a whole as to the needed and indeed indispensable integration of our continent, President Blaise Compaore has become active in subregional mediation and is thus making our contribution to the realization of this grand design for Africa. In Angola, the process sponsored by the United Nations and the international community as a whole is now being torpedoed by UNITA and Mr. Jonas Savimbi, with their refusal to accept the outcome of the elections. The suffering of the Angolan people has been exacerbated, and this today is the part of the world where, more than anywhere else, people are dying as a result of civil war. Having learned from the experience of Angola, the Security Council has issued useful, indeed necessary, recommendations for Mozambique. RENAMO is somewhat slow in implementing these measures. We invite them to pursue the path of negotiations, to overcome the reluctance shown, and to move resolutely with the Government of Mozambique towards reconciliation and reconstruction. In Somalia, after an encouraging start, United Nations action is running into obstacles that are having an adverse effect on the very nature of the peace-keeping operation. We are still convinced that while firmness is necessary, dialogue and negotiation with all parties are equally necessary. In South Africa, acts of violence continue. Each week the macabre death toll is mounting as a result of attacks on public transportation. This is not a climate conducive to significant, indeed decisive, elections. However, the will for change which guides the majority of the protagonists in the tragedy that is apartheid in its death throes must prevail over all manner of extremism. In view of this, Burkina Faso hails the statement made by the President of the African National Congress, Mr. Nelson Mandela, before the Special Committee against Apartheid on 24 September 1993. As for Rwanda, Liberia and Western Sahara, Burkina Faso hopes the agreements achieved can indeed be implemented so that the people of these regions may at long last know peace. The eruption of crises of ethnic, religious or other origin is continuing, while the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina goes on and on, in contempt of international law and of the Security Council. We must therefore welcome the fact that in Cambodia and in El Salvador the process set in train has led to a beginning of normalization, Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 35 and we must encourage Kuwait and Iraq to abide by Security Council resolution 833 (1993). While in political terms the picture is mixed, in economic terms it is bleaker. The world economy is in recession. Weighed down by its debt, by the fall in raw material prices, by the deterioration in its terms of trade and by natural disasters, fluctuations in climate, desertification and drought, Africa is staggering from one calamity to the next. Structural adjustment programmes have been squeezing even harder a continent that has been relegated to the sidelines notwithstanding its resources and the sacrifices it has been making. The problems are known, and to rehearse them here now would sound like a litany and sterile repetition. The solutions, too, are known. In this respect, the New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s has yet to be implemented. A year after the Rio Conference on Environment and Development, the commitments and the promises made have still to take tangible form. However, the same minority continues to lay waste the planet’s natural resources, while poverty is increasing and putting down roots in regions where it used to occur only from time to time or was only a localized phenomenon. The global village is no longer just a slogan; it has become a living reality that at the same time affects the concept of security. New laws are surfacing everywhere in an effort to stem a new deluge, immigration. These measures are an illusion and will remain so long as people do not realize, or refuse to realize, that the root of the problem lies in the socio-economic inequalities that afflict the world. In addition, population growth will cause unbearable pressure if real development policies are not put in place now. The tragedy lies more in the concentration of resources for a minority than in their scarcity. A community that is aware of its shortcomings and blind spots can still heal itself if it has the will to find and to take the necessary medicine. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade negotiations - the Uruguay Round - must be concluded as quickly as possible and must take into account the needs of the developing countries. Once again, it is the concept of security that has led to the monstrous stockpiles of weapons of destruction. Nuclear weapons are the crowning achievement of this march towards the abyss. To limit the risks, a Non-Proliferation Treaty was opened for signature, and almost all States have been invited to sign and ratify it. This is a praiseworthy initiative, but it is not enough. For the Non-Proliferation Treaty to have any meaning, in due course the nuclearweapon States must give them up, and we must see our planet totally and genuinely freed from the nuclear threat. The preservation of the species and of the planet is threatened in two ways: the nuclear menace and the harm we are doing to the environment. Burkina Faso is participating actively in the work of the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee for the elaboration of an international convention to combat desertification and of the Commission on Sustainable Development. It is interesting to note that the harm being done to the environment in the southern hemisphere comes more from the effort to survive than from the unbridled desire to consume at all costs. The relationship established between development and environment also establishes the relationship between respect for human rights and development. One of the great truths brought out and accepted at the World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna, is that there is a right to development. We cannot talk about human rights if elementary human rights - the most elementary human rights - are compromised by economic, financial and trade policies and strategies to which some people fall victim. To commit oneself to human rights nowadays is to commit oneself to changing the world everywhere and to accepting in every individual the person that we want to be and to defend. It is humankind as a whole that we must defend, or nothing; any other approach means giving in to harmful and questionable divisions between people. In the same context, the twin scourges of AIDS and drug abuse must be fought on all fronts, using all available resources. From 8 to 13 February this year Burkina Faso held a series of national seminars on drugs, in which we reaffirmed the need to provide help and support for the most disadvantaged countries in order to curb this threat. We have deadlines in 1994 and 1995, and must prepare with hard work and dedication to confront then the problems of population at the Cairo World Conference; to promote women’s rights at the conference in Beijing; and, in Copenhagen, to focus on and respond to the need for social development. The problems I have enumerated require constant cooperation from everybody. As we leave the cold war behind, we have no better instrument for cooperation than 36 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session the United Nations. However, the United Nations is in a worrying state because its finances are in a bad way, and that is because some of the largest contributors have not fulfilled their obligations. It is therefore difficult to talk about reforming, restructuring and revitalizing the Organization when the primary task has not been accomplished. This is the first problem, because it is the most urgent. The second problem has to do with the chaotic situation in the world. This situation is giving rise to peace-keeping operations, and their frequency and diversity have had an effect - and in future will have an even greater effect - on the functioning of the Organization. We approve of the Secretary-General’s pointing to preventive diplomacy as one of the solutions. In this respect, at the last summit meeting of the Organization of African Unity, in Cairo in June 1993, Africa set up a conflict prevention, management and settlement mechanism. The third problem arises from the Organization’s structural inadequacy to respond to the nature of the problems it will encounter from now on. Here again, though we need imagination to open up new approaches and apply fresh solutions to old and new problems, we must not lose sight of the fact that everyone must participate in the proposed solutions. The fourth problem stems from the notion of democracy. It has been repeatedly proclaimed to be a cureall, but it cannot remain just a battle standard that we wave in front of the new troops who have just been won over to the cause. Democracy must be transformed into a means of action for achieving better things, for achieving more. Whether within States or between States, democracy is a plant that does not stop growing once it has started. Thus we come to the question of how a body with limits can function for and on behalf of all. For the moment, other considerations apply to the Security Council, because it is the direct inheritor of the balance of power that arose out of the Second World War. Forty-eight years later, the debate can certainly be opened. However, as Burkina Faso said during the forty-seventh session, 'Clearly, the role and composition of the Security Council must be reviewed. But we fear that the discussion might be limited to merely expanding a club whose members would continue to view their status as a privilege, not a weighty responsibility. The spirit and perhaps even the nature of the Council must be changed. Clearly, we must begin the debate on the Security Council even if we are still bound by the terms of Article 108 of the Charter. The democratization of international relations is necessary.' (A/47/PV.21, p. 87) It was in this political, economic, social and international environment that we heard the news on 13 September 1993 that two brothers, who had sprung from the same land but had until now refused to recognize each other, had met. Burkina Faso hails their mutual recognition. It is up to the Palestinian and Israeli leaders and peoples whether this is the useful and welcome prelude to their taking a long and complex path, accompanied by the international community, offering its best wishes and its good offices. This hope is like a guttering flame that must be kept burning; it is the image of our human condition, which we must constantly watch over. Only together can we succeed in doing so. Let me express the Swedish Government’s satisfaction at the election of Ambassador Insanally of Guyana as President of this session of the General Assembly. I should also like to pay a tribute to the Secretary-General and to his endeavours to promote the principles of the Charter and a stronger United Nations. Furthermore, I welcome the six new Members of the Organization. The totalitarian ideologies of this century have been defeated, but the struggle of ideas is not over. Totalitarian ideas and ideologies can take on different shapes at different times. In many places - and no country is immune - we still witness expressions of racism, xenophobia and intolerance. If these tendencies are not effectively countered today, the world might have to face far uglier threats tomorrow. As we welcome the progress towards peace and freedom in Eastern Europe, in the Middle East and in South Africa, we have to realize that these achievements will prove elusive if they do not give people a better life. Peace and democracy, freedom and reconciliation, must be cemented by economic and social progress. The individual’s endeavours to improve his own lot and that of his family reflect a basic human desire, which transcends all cultural differences. If that desire is hampered, if hope turns into disillusion, a fertile ground is created for the merchants of hatred and preachers of violence. The regions of the world where security and prosperity have been relatively well secured now have opportunities to help extend the zone of peace to areas that are struggling to escape the vicious circle of poverty and violence. The main instruments for such developments are freer global trade and a more open exchange of ideas. In Europe, the evolving European union, of which Sweden soon hopes to become a member, has a special responsibility for ensuring that the Iron Curtain is not reinstalled in the form of persistent economic and social divisions. The United States and Asia-Pacific countries are meeting challenges of a similar nature in their regions. In the Middle East and Africa, we all share a joint responsibility. In spite of all the challenges facing the world today - regional conflicts, widespread poverty, environmental damage and arms proliferation - I believe we have a reasonable chance of extending the zone of peace and prosperity as we stand at the threshold of the twenty-first century. In this effort we must be able to rely on a strong and efficient world Organization. Today the United Nations is reaching middle age. In two years it will be celebrating its fiftieth anniversary. The end of the cold war brings new opportunities to utilize the full potential of the United Nations Charter and the United Nations system. At the same time, a thorough diagnosis and some strong prescriptions are necessary if the Organization is to serve as a vigorous instrument of the world community. Former Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold once said: 'The United Nations is, and should be, a living, evolving, experimental institution. If it should ever cease to be so, it should be revolutionized or swept aside for a new approach.' Those words are as challenging and valid today as they were in the late 1950s. Today, I do not intend to dwell on those areas in which the Organization works well, or to commend praiseworthy initiatives. Instead, I would like to concentrate on areas where reforms and a special focus are indispensable. The most important of these are the promotion of peace and security, the role of the Organization in the economic and social fields, and the promotion of human rights. In responding to several crises in the aftermath of the cold war, the Security Council has, de facto, considerably broadened the concept of international peace and security. The United Nations finds itself engaged on a regular basis in wide-ranging and diversified operations in a variety of complex conflict situations. Some of these are of an internal nature and many of them involve humanitarian efforts. The very concept of United Nations peace-keeping has undergone dramatic change. Unprecedented demands are being placed on the Organization in the quest for global security and peace. There has been an eight-fold increase in the number of people serving in peace-keeping operations during the past two years; the peace-keeping budget will more than double in the course of a single year. 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The implementation of a peace agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina will require additional and substantial contributions from United Nations Member States. Again the willingness and ability to provide personnel and resources will be tested. I am pleased to announce that at this very moment a Nordic battalion group is being deployed in Bosnia. As much as we welcome a peace settlement for Bosnia and Herzegovina we must recognize that it is far from an ideal solution to that long and bitter conflict. It might constitute no more than the beginning of a complicated and frustrating process towards peace where all efforts must be used to counter the inherent dangers of continued aggression, 'ethnic cleansing' and the dismemberment of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As soon as a settlement has been signed by the parties, we should concentrate on building a peace which can provide safe and decent conditions for the suffering population. First of all, we need a strong and efficient peace-keeping operation in order to assist in implementing the provisions of the agreement. International organizations, particularly the United Nations, must embark on a comprehensive reconstruction and rehabilitation programme. Special attention should be paid to the situation of refugees and displaced persons, and to their return, and to the plight of women and children. Experience gained from the conflict in former Yugoslavia and from the successful United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) shows the need for an integrated approach to international peace and security. This must be one of the guiding principles for reforming and restructuring the Organization to enable it to deal more effectively with today’s conflicts. The Secretary-General’s report 'An Agenda for Peace' indicates ways to improve the medium-term and long-term handling of peace-keeping. An interaction between preventive diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-keeping and post-conflict peace-building is indispensable. The need for reform in the peace-keeping area is undisputed. Ongoing efforts in this regard are commendable and should be further promoted. The Nordic countries intend to present proposals on this issue during the current General Assembly session. At this early stage I would like to stress the following points. First, we should be able to react flexibly to dynamic situations in peace-keeping operations, and that requires better provisions for planning and operations staff. Command and control need to be clearly defined. The operative command of operations in the field would, of course, remain in the hands of the respective force commanders. Secondly, close consultations between the troop contributors, the Security Council and the Secretary-General are of special importance in complex peace-keeping operations. A forum for coordination and exchange of information to improve contacts between the Council and the troop contributors would be desirable. I propose that such a forum be set up for each major operation. Thirdly, we urge Member States to respond positively to the Secretary-General’s request, and provide troops, other personnel and equipment on a stand-by basis for use at short notice for peace-keeping purposes. The members of the Security Council hold a special responsibility to ensure that adequate resources are provided when it decides on new operations. Fourthly, peace-keeping operations and humanitarian relief efforts are increasingly interrelated, and this requires improved coordination. In many cases the humanitarian efforts are vital for the successful pursuance of peace-keeping operations. Fifthly, the great number of peace-keeping operations and their diversity require special emphasis on training. To address the need for appropriate training of United Nations peace-keepers, United Nations training colleges should be established. The United Nations has an important role to play in coordinating and promoting peace-keeping training for all categories of personnel. Member States with long-standing traditions in this field bear a special responsibility. Sweden, for its part, is prepared to contribute to improving the skills of peace-keepers. This could include training for civilian and humanitarian-relief personnel, and also for police and military staff. Finally, and most important, present and increasing demands on United Nations peace-keeping cannot be met if Member States do not pay their dues. We must create the necessary resources for the rapid implementation of Security Council decisions. If not, we run the risk of undermining the credibility and the prestige of the United Nations and the Security Council. New threats to regional security are emerging. Cooperation between the United Nations and regional arrangements is vital to meet these threats of global Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 19 importance. Regional action is indispensable to strengthen the global community of values and to secure the efficient use of scarce resources. In this spirit, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) is applying for Observer status in the General Assembly. As Chairman of the CSCE Council, I signed in May a framework document with the Secretary-General. This framework aims at improving coordination and cooperation between the United Nations and the CSCE in conflict resolution in the CSCE area. The implementation of that framework is essential for realizing the goals of Chapter VIII of the Charter. Regular consultations, mutual exchange of information and coordination of activities between the United Nations and the CSCE have started. CSCE missions are supervising the implementation of United Nations sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Concrete action in the field is also taking place in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and in unfortunate Georgia. As Chairman of the CSCE I deplore the recent developments in Georgia. The very survival of Georgia as a member of the international community is now at stake. The CSCE lends its full support to President Shevardnadze’s efforts to prevent the dismemberment of his country. All participating States must now exert their influence to that end. The disintegration of Georgia is in no one’s interest. The Security Council bears primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, and must be the driving force behind reforms in this area, reflecting the aspirations of the States Members of the Organization. In this context, we welcome the statement by the Council that progress in disarmament, arms control and non-proliferation can make a crucial contribution to the maintenance of peace and security. An early agreement on a comprehensive test ban would enhance that concept. The considerable increase in the number of Members of the United Nations makes an enlargement of the Security Council a matter for urgent consideration. The effectiveness, efficiency and legitimacy of the Council must be the overriding goals. A reform must ensure that the Council continues to be relevant in a changing world and that it retains its capacity to act decisively and promptly. The United Nations has a unique mandate to promote economic, social and environmental progress and development. Increased attention should be given to these areas to overcome long-term threats to international peace and security. Today, the challenge for the United Nations is to fulfil its important role in supporting international cooperation and governments’ efforts to master the increasingly complex problems of development. Sweden is looking forward to contributing to the deliberations on the report of the Secretary-General on an agenda for development. Along with other countries, we have witnessed with increasing concern what seems to be a fragmentation and marginalization of the United Nations in development assistance, not least in long-term development. It is obvious that extensive reform is needed if the United Nations is to be able to respond to the new challenges. A more efficient governance structure and a broader, more stable and predictable funding of operational activities are in the interest both of recipient and of donor countries. We must sharpen our instruments, both in terms of policy formulation and development action, to avoid having interest, commitment and funding from Sweden and other Member States diverted to other organizations, to the detriment of those most in need of what the United Nations could offer. As a long-standing, major donor, with a firm belief in the importance of the United Nations in the economic and social fields, Sweden will continue to work for much-needed reforms. Against this background, we hope that the recent decision to continue negotiations on the role, size and functioning of the executive boards of the development programmes will lead to a result that ensures an effective conduct of work in the development field. The executive boards must be efficient instruments, capable of firmly guiding the work of their respective organizations. The promotion of human rights is a United Nations priority objective, as set out in the Charter. Thus, the protection and promotion of human rights should underpin the whole spectrum of United Nations activities. Flagrant abuse of human rights and humanitarian law is still a tragic reality for millions of people in many parts of the world. At the World Conference on Human Rights, all States reaffirmed their solemn commitment to promote respect for and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the universal nature of which is beyond question. Such commitments are, however, of no avail if they are not put into action. All States have a duty to adhere to the international conventions in this field. We must also make sure that the United Nations human rights programme is allocated the means and support necessary to fulfil its role. We should, as a matter of 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session urgency, take steps to increase the resources and improve the function of the United Nations Centre for Human Rights. The establishment of a high commissioner for human rights would enhance the capacity of the international system to deal more directly with emergencies and grave violations. It would help to improve coordination and integration of human rights within the United Nations system as a whole. The commissioner would personify the priority given to the protection of human rights, and this issue should be a matter for prompt consideration by this General Assembly. Sweden welcomes the fact that the General Assembly recently proceeded to select the judges for the Tribunal established for prosecuting war crimes committed in former Yugoslavia. This means that the Tribunal can shortly commence its important work. Let me revert to the United Nations financial crisis. It is deeply disturbing that 90 per cent of the assessed contributions are paid late or not at all. There is no justification for the failure of permanent members of the Security Council to live up to their obligations in this respect. The time has come to address the issue of incentives and penalties to enhance the principle of meeting financial obligations on time and in full. The recommendations of the Independent Advisory Group on United Nations Financing in this respect must receive immediate attention. In this connection, let us not forget the letter and the spirit of Article 19 of the Charter, with its implications for the right to vote. An adjustment of the scale of assessments must ensure a fairer and more up-to-date application of the principle of capacity to pay. At a time of resource constraints, it is also imperative for Member States to face the questions of priorities and efficient management. Strict budgetary discipline is required, and scarce resources should not be wasted on activities lacking well-defined goals: the means entrusted to the Organization must be used in the most cost-effective and prudent manner. We welcome the recent measures taken by the Secretary-General in this regard. We now have a unique opportunity to strengthen international cooperation. This window of opportunity is greater than at any time since 1945. The judgement of history will be harsh if we fail to grasp this moment. Therefore, it is up to us, as politicians and statesmen of the present generation, to make sure that international cooperation takes a decisive step forward. The United Nations has a central role in this process. If the United Nations concentrates on the essential tasks entrusted to it in the Charter, and manages to generate the necessary support and cooperation, this can be achieved. There is broad consensus among the Member States about the need to strengthen the United Nations. If this consensus can be transformed into rapid action, we will have made considerable progress in making the world Organization fulfil the high expectations attached to it today. I am experiencing a feeling of signal honour and genuine pleasure, and also at the same time a deep feeling as I now, on behalf of my country, Rwanda, speak before this prestigious General Assembly of the United Nations, which each year considers the fate of our world. Above all, I should like to associate myself with the eminent speakers who have spoken before me here, to extend to you, Sir, on behalf of the delegation of which I am the head, our warmest congratulations on your election to the presidency of the United Nations General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. We are assured that your personal qualities and your extensive experience in international issues will assist you in discharging this difficult responsibility. Your personal qualities and your experience are the best guarantee of the success of the work of the present session. We also wish to congratulate all the other members of the General Committee, who, we are sure, will spare no effort in assisting you in successfully discharging the difficult task entrusted to you. The delegation of the Republic of Rwanda will spare no effort to participate actively and effectively to ensure a successful conclusion of the debate on the items on the agenda of this session. Moreover, we wish to render a well-deserved tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, who was always inspired by the same concern for effectiveness in the cause of peace, justice and international security. He deserves our deep gratitude for having guided with wisdom and competence the work of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. We should also like to take advantage of this happy opportunity to warmly welcome the presence here with us of new Member States, the admission of which is an important stage towards achieving the universality of the Organization. The forty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly is opening at a time when the world presents to us a rather gloomy picture. Here and there are several scattered islets of peace and prosperity but they are few indeed. Moreover, in various corners of the world armed conflicts and political tensions are ready to explode into open crisis and economic and social ruin. In many countries we find poverty and upheavals in the quest for more balanced societies, and everywhere there is anguish in the face of so many challenges which confront the conscience of man and which spawn fear for the future. Fortunately, good will is being demonstrated and mobilized at the level of States, non-governmental organizations, and regional and international organizations - in the forefront of which is the United Nations - to arouse the universal conscience, extinguish the fires, accompany political change, allay misery and renew hope and the enjoyment of life for those for whom the horizon seems closed and gloomy. It is an appropriate time and place to pay a sincere tribute to the world Organization and to its tireless Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for all the actions undertaken and carried out with skill and designed to restore peace in regions and countries devastated by war, to prevent other conflicts, and to assist disadvantaged peoples or those sorely tried by disasters of all types. To be sure, the means are limited, but is not this Organization the last hope of people? And success nurtures that hope. Thus we welcome enthusiastically the end of the civil war in Cambodia and the re-establishment of State institutions in that country. Rwanda welcomes the progress that has been made towards a settlement of the conflict in Mozambique and is following particularly closely the political developments in South Africa. While the system of apartheid in the latter has not yet been completely eliminated, recent developments promise positive and rapid progress. Rwanda is also most gratified at the very positive course of the Middle East peace negotiations, which, thanks to mutual recognition between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and to the signing, in Washington on 13 September 1993, of an agreement on Palestinian autonomy in Gaza and Jericho, have just gone through a very important stage. We hope that this historic agreement, which lays the bases for reconciliation between Israelis and Palestinians, will open the way to a lasting solution to all the issues connected with the problem of the Middle East and will lead ultimately to peace and calm in that part of the world. To that end, we call on the international community to redouble its efforts to secure positive results for the attempts now being made to settle the conflicts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Liberia, Angola, Somalia and all other countries where peoples are being battered, divided and plunged into misery by individual or tribal egoism and ambition or are having their sovereignty threatened by the inordinate greed of other States. At the level of international economic relations, it is depressing to note that, to this day, three quarters of mankind live on the sidelines of economic and social progress, in so far as numerous structural imbalances continue to hamper the efforts of the countries of the South to achieve self-development and international cooperation. Indeed, despite the concerted efforts at integration, despite the internal adjustments still undertaken at enormous sacrifice, and despite the expressions of good will for international partnership, foreign debt continues to grow, and the gap between the economies of the North and those of the South continues to widen. The delegation of Rwanda is convinced that if the lot of mankind is to be improved, the international community must undertake measures that can promote the emergence of a new, more balanced and more equitable world economic order. In this regard, only a common political will on the part of all the Members of this Organization can help to correct the structural imbalances in the global economy and to open the way to a new partnership in which interdependence means, first and foremost, a shared destiny for mankind, in which international cooperation is even more synonymous with success that benefits all the partners - the seal of fraternity and the promise of genuine solidarity. Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993 3 Rwanda has always believed that international cooperation, if it is to be more effective, must be based to an even greater extent on intense, transparent, consistent and concise action agreed with our partners and undertaken within what must one day be regarded as a genuine contract of solidarity. Rwanda has always believed that well-planned cooperation implies the concept of co-management, of co- responsibility. This means shared responsibility, ongoing dialogue, transparency of commitments and acceptance of the right of all sides to make mistakes, so that, to a greater extent than in the past, cooperation can meet the stakes of the future. To secure even more genuine cooperation, the international community must seek effective solutions to all these challenges that are leading us into institutionalized, crushing debt. In addition, the scope of international cooperation can be widened, and its impact increased, only through genuine integration of action and of programmes in the context of a national strategy and with a global vision of authentic self- development. Rwanda has always attached special importance to international cooperation, to which it owes so much of its progress, its development and its achievements. With regard to the political situation in Rwanda, my country, as Members know, is emerging from a pointless and undeserved war, which was imposed on it three years ago, on 1 October 1990. Allow me, before sketching out the situation into which this war has plunged the population of Rwanda and the country’s economy, to emphasize once again the role of the international community in resolving crises and conflicts, for the ending of the war in my country is the result of a miracle of international solidarity. There is no doubt that this required the good will of the two parties to the conflict. Wisdom prevailed over ambition, and hatred yielded to the nation’s need to survive. But the will of the two parties to pool their efforts was strongly supported by countries neighbouring Rwanda, among which the two parties chose, by common agreement, the Republic of Zaire as Mediator and the United Republic of Tanzania as Facilitator. The two warring parties benefited also from the skilled help of President Abdou Diouf of Senegal, who was at that time Chairman of the Organization of African Unity, and of certain friendly countries - France, Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany and the United States of America. In addition, they received most valuable assistance from the Organization of African Unity and the United Nations. All these countries and international organizations sent representatives to Arusha, Tanzania, to take part in the peace negotiations that had begun in Zaire following the launching of hostilities, that had continued in Tanzania for a year, with their participation, and that culminated in a peace agreement. I take this opportunity to express once again to all these countries and organizations the sincere gratitude of the Government and people of Rwanda for their highly valuable contribution to the positive outcome of the negotiations, which were very trying to all who were involved and which on numerous occasions would have been on the verge of collapse had it not been for the tenacity and determination of the two parties and the wise and firm advice of all friends present. This senseless war that befell Rwanda is now subsiding, thanks to the peace agreement that was signed in Arusha on 4 August 1993. It was bloody and devastating. We mourn tens of thousands of victims. The war resulted in considerable destruction of infrastructure, equipment and socio-economic and administrative systems, and it left in a state of dire poverty more than 900,000 displaced persons, whose property went up in smoke. That war has left us with orphans and invalids of all ages, widows, helpless old people and hundreds of thousands of economic victims. In the regions affected by the war, misery and desolation hold sway. Education has been severely jeopardized and the psychological consequences for the most vulnerable age groups are doubtless incalculable. This war has destroyed the fragile equilibrium of the country’s food supply and has exacerbated the famine which has struck the entire country, because it broke out in the country’s most fertile regions, which have not been cultivated for three years now. The representatives of international bodies and non-governmental organizations who visited the camps of displaced persons cannot forget the desolate sight of the make-shift shelters where hundreds of thousands of human beings, crammed together in highly unsanitary conditions, continue to lead lives that are close to intolerable. Those representatives cannot forget the long lines of hungry people on the roads, seeking the assistance sent them by the international community, which with difficulty was able to deliver it to them for their survival. And what can we say of the economy in general? Already badly shaken, it is today in even worse condition, following the enormous expenditures resulting from the war and the destruction it caused. Thus, after the signing of the Arusha Peace Agreement, the time has come for the long- term, enormous work of national reconstruction in the newly regained peace and calm, without forgetting the other, no 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session less important objective, the implementation of national reconciliation and the continued strengthening of the process of democratization in the management of the country. We can already welcome the establishment of a multi-party system by the constitutional review of 10 June 1991, thanks to which 17 political parties were agreed upon. Five of them are at present forming a transition Government which soon will be expanded to the Rwanda Patriotic Front for a new transitional period which should lead to pluralist, free and democratic elections. On the economic level, Rwanda has been experiencing a crisis since the 1980s, which has had negative repercussions on the implementation of the budget and has been exacerbated not only by the war but also by the unpredictable nature of external shocks, in particular the collapse of the international price of coffee, our primary export. As it was no longer possible to control the growth of public expenditures and of the fundamental imbalance in the balance of trade, in combination with a production system whose structure is very fragile, my country implemented, in November 1990, a programme of recovery having the following priorities: to relaunch the economy, to achieve internal and external financial balance, to promote domestic savings, to encourage the activity of the private sector and to improve the management of the public sector. Rwanda’s structural adjustment programme has been given great technical and financial support by all the donors, headed by the Bretton Woods institutions. Unfortunately, the launching of this programme, which the Government could apparently have carried out without too many sudden detours, coincided with the attack of October 1990. From this rostrum, I would like most solemnly to thank the international community for the support it has accorded Rwanda both with assistance in the balance of payments and with development projects. We are even more grateful for the priority the international community has given to assistance for those displaced by the war, in answer to the consolidated appeal made by the Department of Humanitarian Affairs of the United Nations, whose dedication is inestimable. Following the war and the new deterioration of the terms of trade which affected the economy of Rwanda, the very backbone of our structural adjustment programme is threatened. I am speaking here of the liberalization of external and internal trade which requires a comfortable currency reserve situation. The Government of Rwanda has just decided upon the primary features of its short- and medium-term post-war economic policy from 1993 to 1996, items we have submitted to the international community. This policy reflects the Government’s commitment to do all in its power to stabilize the large financial balances and to launch the process of economic recovery on the basis of the fundamental strategy of the structural adjustment programme, which gives a key role to market forces. In short, the positive results of the measures that have been in place since November 1990 must be capitalized upon, and new measures required by the deterioration of short- and medium-term economic prospects, linked to the war, must be planned. Therefore, in accordance with the contents of the Peace Agreement, the priorities of the expanded transitional Government are to pursue efforts at economic recovery and to work on four programmes for specifically post-war economic development: emergency assistance to those displaced by the war in order to help them return to their property, assistance in the reintegration of Rwandese refugees, assistance in reconstruction and assistance in the social and economic reintegration of demobilized military personnel. For the repatriation of Rwandese refugees in accordance with the Dar-es-Salaam Declaration of 19 February 1991, a donors’ meeting will be organized at the initiative of the Government, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). With the war, we saw all types of destruction, particularly the damaging and/or destruction of several thousands of hectares of forest which will even further aggravate the wood shortage. With the end of the war, the country will have to dispose of the funds to demobilize more than 31,000 military personnel. We will also have to locate throughout the country paying jobs and training which can facilitate their social and economic reintegration. Within the framework of the preparation for the programmes of reconstruction and socio-economic reintegration of demobilized military personnel, I have personally sent a request to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, on 2 January 1993, and an inter-agency mission of the United Nations systems and of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is at present backing the Government of Rwanda in the preparation of the document to be submitted to the donors at a round table for humanitarian emergency assistance. Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993 5 Rwanda is trying to manage its meagre resources in an extremely difficult context. But it remains committed to the strategy of economic development contained in the structural adjustment programme it launched in November 1990, with, as its base, the process of economic liberalization that has already begun and is giving the private sector a larger role in decision-making. By signing the Peace Agreement the Government of Rwanda firmly committed itself to strengthening the basis of a State of law in which public freedoms, together with political rights, justice and equality, will be guaranteed. In that Agreement the two parties have agreed that an independent National Commission for Human Rights will be established entrusted with dealing with violations of human rights perpetrated by any person on Rwandan territory and, in particular, by State bodies and by persons under cover of the State or other organizations. Simultaneously, the Government will move to improve the functioning of the legal and penal systems, in particular by forbidding arbitrary and illegal arrests and inhumane treatment of detainees and by severely punishing the perpetrators of such acts. Since the country’s human, material and financial means are severely limited, an appeal will be made to foreign financial and technological assistance, especially in the area of the training of magistrates and officials of the Office of the Public Prosecutor and Ministry of Justice personnel. In the Peace Agreement the Government of Rwanda has also reaffirmed its determination to reach a final settlement of the refugee problem, a goal to which it had committed itself in the Dar-es-Salaam Declaration of 19 February 1991 at the regional summit meeting which examined the problem of Rwandan refugees. The task will be a difficult one for the broad-based transitional government envisaged in the agreement within the framework of the Protocols of Agreement on Power- sharing between the country’s political parties and the Rwandese Patriotic Front (RPF). That Government will be set up in the next few days, as soon as the prerequisite conditions have been met. The task will also be a difficult one for the people of Rwanda as a whole, who will be the ultimate authors and beneficiaries of the hoped-for progress and well-being. Nevertheless, despite the will and determination of the Rwandan people and their Government, we must acknowledge the utter insufficiency of the domestic means available, given the titanic labour to be accomplished. We thus look to the international community to support and supplement our own efforts. The first contribution we expect from the international community is the deployment, as rapidly as possible, of an international neutral force, as provided in the Arusha Agreement. On behalf of the people of Rwanda, I should like to express to the United Nations as a whole, and to the members of the Security Council in particular, our gratitude for the historic decision the Organization took yesterday in adopting the resolution establishing the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR), so long awaited for the implementation of the Arusha Peace Agreement. The Agreement assigns to that force the task of facilitating the implementation of the Peace Agreement, specifically by supervising implementation of the Protocol on the Integration of the Armed Forces of the Two Parties and by providing various kinds of assistance to the authorities and competent bodies. The Agreement also assigns to UNAMIR security tasks, including, inter alia, monitoring the overall security situation in the country and investigating and reporting on activities carried out by the competent authorities and bodies in the maintenance of public order; assisting in ensuring the security of the civilian population; assisting with mine-clearance operations; assisting in the identification of arms stockpiles and the neutralization of armed bands throughout the country, and monitoring the respect by both sides of the comprehensive cease-fire and cessation of hostilities, as provided in the Peace Agreement. Lastly, the Arusha Peace Agreement entrusts the neutral international force with the tasks of supervising the training process of the national armed forces, and here I would mention only the supervision of the disengagement of forces, supervision of the demobilization of all the military forces and the Gendarmerie, and participation in the training programme for members of the New National Army and National Gendarmerie. This is some indication of how necessary and urgent the establishment of the neutral international force is in order to allow for the creation of the broad-based transitional government and the reintegration of persons displaced by the war, the repatriation of refugees and, in a 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session general manner, national reconstruction in conditions of maximum security. Another extremely vital contribution we expect from the international community, and more specifically from the United Nations system and, on a bilateral level, from the friendly countries and various non-governmental organizations, will be that of financing the priority programmes to which I referred a few moments ago. Today, more than ever, Rwanda needs the attention, concern and good will of the international community. It is relying on that community’s generosity to re-establish itself and to recover from the horrors of war. May that hope be realized soon. With the support of the international community the people of Rwanda hope to pass smoothly through a transition period that, notwithstanding the guidelines of the Peace Agreement, could still turn out to be arduous. The people of Rwanda, however, are relying on the patriotism and sense of responsibility that their political authorities and the leaders of the parties in the government and the Transitional Assembly must demonstrate to consolidate the democratic gains and lay down, once and for all, the foundations of peace and national harmony. Once the demons of division have been exorcised, the people of Rwanda will surely build a new nation and experience once again uninterrupted progress. At this session of the General Assembly elections will be held for a number of seats on the Security Council. Rwanda has officially put forward its candidacy to become a non-permanent member of that body entrusted with responsibility for international peace and security. Its candidacy was endorsed at the last Summit Meeting of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) held at Cairo at the end of June this year. As the Head of State, I ask for the Assembly’s trust in my country, Rwanda, which has never yet had a seat on the Security Council. As a State concerned to carry out its responsibilities, including those on the international level, Rwanda believes that it can, today more than yesterday, make its modest contribution to the maintenance of peace in the world and to the restoration of peace in troubled regions and countries. Emerging as it now is from a war that has tried it sorely, Rwanda is better aware of the price of peace, the peace it has now regained thanks in particular to the efforts of the international community. Those are the reasons that have motivated Rwanda to put forward its candidacy for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council: to assist other warring nations to return to peace, but also to work, together with the other members of the Council, for the strengthening of peace within its own borders. Rwanda hopes that it will have your confidence. An ancient country that was under United Nations trusteeship throughout the period prior to its accession to national independence, my country, Rwanda, which has just emerged from the throes of an unmentionable war and now yearns to rebuild, relying on the lessons of the past, has every reason to feel that it has matured, and it assures you of its unswerving determination to work for the advent of peace in the world and understanding among nations. On its behalf, I repeat to the United Nations, our Organization, our sincerest wishes that it may succeed and flourish for the happiness of all mankind. I wish to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. We are sure that your vast experience, personal qualifications, and intimate knowledge of the manifold problems confronting the international community will serve you well in the performance of your duties. Please be assured of the fullest cooperation and support of the Liberian delegation. We extend a deserving tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, for the efficient and able manner in which he handled the affairs of the Assembly during the past year. His decisiveness and fairness paid off greatly in producing the many results which are a positive outgrowth of the debate of the previous session. Our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, also deserves special commendation for his persistent and tireless Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993 5 efforts in trying to secure a world that is both peaceful and just and sustained by an equitable economic order. Indeed, his devotion and singular commitment to the principles and purposes of the Organization have brought renewed confidence on the prospects of achieving mankind’s dream of a stable international environment. We seize this opportunity to welcome the newly-admitted Members of the United Nations. It is our fervent hope that they will make a meaningful contribution to our common search for global peace and security. Over the past three years Liberia’s external relations, in response to domestic imperatives, have focused on the achievement of four primary objectives: first, to ensure that international opinion is sensitized to the serious effects of the civil war in Liberia and the need for international support to end the conflict; secondly, to effect the mobilization of humanitarian and emergency relief assistance for the war-ravaged population; thirdly, to help sustain the consensus on the situation in Liberia within the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and to secure broader international acceptance of the ECOWAS peace plan as the best possible formula for resolving the Liberian civil strife; and, fourthly, to enhance the peace process itself by neutralizing attempts to resolve the Liberian conflict through the military victory of a faction, while encouraging a negotiated political settlement of this seemingly intractable conflict. In pursuit of these objectives, the Interim Government of National Unity (IGNU) has participated in 25 peace talks and a great number of other consultations with the Liberian factions, the leaders of subregional, regional and international organizations, and foreign Governments to enhance the prospects for peace in Liberia. It is now my pleasing duty to inform the Assembly that the Interim Government of National Unity, the National Patriotic Front of Liberia (NPFL) and the United Liberation Movement of Liberia for Democracy (ULIMO) signed a peace accord in Cotonou, the Republic of Benin, on 25 July 1993. The Cotonou Agreement is a significant breakthrough in the quest for durable peace in Liberia. By agreeing on a process beginning with a cease-fire and leading to disarmament, demobilization and then free and fair elections, we Liberians have all finally decided on how power will be acquired in our country. The Agreement is therefore a great victory for the people of Liberia in their efforts to secure a democratic future. As my delegation stated on 10 August 1993 during the Security Council’s consideration of the report (S/26200) of the Secretary-General on Liberia, the Cotonou Agreement is also a victory for the leaders and peoples of the member States of the Economic Community of West African States, who took a bold and courageous initiative to resolve a security question in their subregion, with the active support and cooperation of the Organization of African Unity (OAU). On that occasion, we went on to state, and we here repeat, that the United Nations must also share in this victory. In this vein we wish to register our appreciation to Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali for his consuming interest in the crisis in Liberia. We thank him immensely for his thorough and incisive reports on Liberia, which enhanced the decisiveness of the Security Council with respect to resolutions 788 (1992), 813 (1993) and 866 (1993). We also commend the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Liberia, Mr. Trevor Gordon-Somers; the OAU Eminent Person for Liberia, former Zimbabwean President the Rev. Dr. Canaan Banana; and the former Executive Secretary of ECOWAS, Dr. Abbas Bundu; whose relentless collaborative efforts helped to make the Cotonou Agreement a reality. The people of Liberia will for ever remain grateful to the gallant men and women of the ECOWAS Cease-fire Monitoring Group (ECOMOG). Enduring thanks go to the West African States which have made troop contributions to the peace-keeping effort: Nigeria, Ghana, Guinea, Sierra Leone, Gambia, Mali and Senegal. During the process of negotiating the Cotonou Agreement, the Interim Government, largely a coalition of various political parties and interest groups representing the vast majority of our citizenry who do not bear arms, demanded the disarmament of all combatants as a sine qua non for the restoration of peace. The armed factions conceded to this demand on condition that a new, transitional authority, to include the Interim Government, be organized within a framework acceptable to them. This concession, hardly an unreasonably high price to pay for disarmament and peace, was made. The Cotonou Agreement, then, divided into a military and a political component, encompasses provisions attending a trade-off. The political demands are far-reaching, in that they require more than a simple reconfiguration of the Interim Government within the context of power-sharing. The 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Liberian National Transitional Government, being a new creation, requires the divestiture of power from the current interim authorities. On the other hand, the warring factions, divested of their arms and demobilized, will equally cease to exist as fighting forces. To strengthen the Agreement, or otherwise reinforce the confidence of the parties, it was agreed that the installing of the Transitional Government, and the beginning of the disarmament process, each being a precondition for the other, would ensue simultaneously. However, this demand for concurrent processes harbours the prospective danger that an achievement lag in either component, military or political, may tend to undermine confidence in the entire peace process and thereby threaten the understanding. What, then, does each phase require, and how much and in what area has progress been made? The implementation of the political phase of the Accords has largely been completed, and on schedule. The Interim Government has complied with all the concessions required for disarmament so that Liberians may live free from fear and have a chance of being at peace with each other. A five-member Council of State has been formed to constitute the executive authority of the Transitional Government. The legislature, the judiciary, and the Elections Commission are being reorganized or otherwise made to reflect the inclusive intent of the transitional period. The Liberian National Transitional Government is waiting to be installed once the disarmament process begins. Pacta sunt servanda. What, then, is the requirement for the disarmament process to begin? The following paragraph from the report of the Secretary-General on Liberia, of 4 August 1993, correctly reflects the specific provisions of the agreement and the factor motivating them. The Secretary-General states: 'Given the level of mistrust existing between ECOMOG and the NPFL, special measures were devised to make ECOMOG acceptable to all parties in overseeing encampment, disarmament and demobilization. It was agreed that ECOMOG would be expanded to include new troops from countries not already participating in ECOMOG. These troops would be drawn from other ECOWAS countries, as well as from OAU countries outside of the West African subregion. In addition, it was proposed that United Nations military observers would monitor and verify the cease-fire as well as the implementation of the encampment, disarmament and demobilization provisions of the Agreement.' (S/26200, para. 7) A month later, in September 1993, the Secretary-General, recognizing that these preparations for disarmament would not keep pace with the political arrangements, advanced a most constructive proposal in his report of 9 September 1993 as follows: '... The Agreement forecasts that the transitional government would be established approximately one month after the signing of the agreement, concomitant with the commencement of the disarmament process. While this process is already somewhat behind schedule, the establishment of the transitional government is crucial to reinforcing national reconciliation. I therefore urge ECOMOG to move quickly in commencing the disarmament process, with monitoring provided by the advance team of UNOMIL, even before full deployment of the expanded ECOMOG and UNOMIL. In this regard, it is encouraging to note that NPFL expressed to the planning mission its readiness to accept troops from among the present ECOMOG contingent to be deployed in NPFL areas. With the expected full deployment of the advanced team of United Nations military observers in the coming days, the disarmament process could possibly begin immediately thereafter.' (S/26422, para. 40) Last week in Monrovia, Dr. Amos Sawyer, the President of the Interim Government of National Unity, publicly assured the Liberian people that if the armed factions accept the Secretary-General’s proposal and allow the disarmament process to commence, he would immediately transfer power to the transitional authorities. However, the unwillingness of any of the armed factions to avail itself of the proposal need not necessarily be viewed as reflective of a lack of will or suggestive of bad faith. Scrupulous adherence to the actual terms of the Agreement may ultimately enhance the prospects for genuine peace, however slow and exacting the process may prove to be. Meanwhile, efforts continue to get the full complement of additional ECOMOG forces and United Nations observers. The Government of Liberia wishes to thank the United States Government for its contribution to the Trust Fund of the Economic Community of West African States to facilitate the expansion of ECOMOG and assist the forces currently in place. We renew our request to other friendly Governments to respond to the Secretary-General’s appeal for contributions to the Trust Fund as a means of advancing the peace process in Liberia. Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993 7 We are convinced that the enabling conditions for disarmament will be expeditiously created and that the Transitional Government will be installed shortly. The fact that the cease-fire continues to hold and that the parties are largely cooperating with each other is a basis for continuing confidence in the commitment of the parties. Our hearts are touched by the great outpouring of empathy and good will from countries that have contributed to the well-being of the people of Liberia since the beginning of our conflict. Through the specialized agencies of the United Nations system, as well as many private volunteer and non-governmental organizations, they have enabled many Liberians to find life worth living because of the genuine concern that has been demonstrated. Our thanks go to all those who continue to make a difference in the lives of our people. The Transitional Government, when installed with authority spanning the entire country, will stand in need of extensive relief assistance to respond effectively to the monumental human suffering existing in some parts of Liberia. Our delegation envisages an upsurge in the demand for humanitarian assistance, with food and medical supplies being the obvious priorities. We appeal to the international community to stand ready to assist the people of Liberia for a reasonable period, as it will take time before the advantages of peace are translated into real improvements in the lives of the people. A successful disarmament exercise will be the long-awaited signal for our people in refugee camps to return home. Indeed, the Transitional Government will need the cooperation and assistance of men of good will everywhere in order to succeed in the awesome tasks of repatriation, resettlement and rehabilitation. The gruesome civil war devastated the economy of the country, paralysed vital social services and destroyed basic infrastructure. It is significant that the political division of the country has prevented a coordinated needs survey to fully assess the reconstruction demand. It is important, also, that the Transitional Government has the task of helping to prepare the country for free and fair elections, to be held under international supervision and monitoring within six to seven months. This is hardly ideal timing, but it proved to be the best that a negotiated settlement could produce. Clearly, the international community has a moral obligation to help the people of Liberia succeed in this endeavour, since the very thought of failure attending these exercises is, in itself, a nightmare. The Interim Government has striven, even in the throes of a civil war, to maintain law and order and operate with a Constitution which affirms civil liberties and respect for fundamental human rights. We, as men of conscience, condemn and stand in total opposition against those who, in the midst of the war, trained their weapons on helpless civilians. We therefore thank the Secretary-General for responding with dispatch to the Interim Government’s request for the establishment of a commission of inquiry to investigate the atrocities committed since the commencement of the civil war. We believe that the Wako Commission Report has contributed to amassing the evidence required in order for justice to be done to the perpetrators of the Harbel area massacre and other massacres. Liberia’s tragic circumstances, coupled with the efforts to resolve the conflict, provide useful lessons that could be most instructive for the international community. The Liberian peace process has shown that, even in the face of scarce resources, member States of the Economic Community of West African States have contained a security threat in their subregion by marshalling the requisite political will to do so. The dispatch and maintenance of a peace- keeping force in Liberia by the leaders of ECOWAS represent the finest hour for Africa in its efforts to maintain peace and security on the continent. The Liberian experience has also demonstrated that peace initiatives that are conceived and implemented within a subregional context, while supported and assisted by regional and international organizations, are a practical approach which stands the best chance of success in conflict resolution. The States closest to the conflict are likely to have a deeper understanding of, and appreciation for, the interplay of forces within the milieu. It is against this background that the Government of Liberia gave its fullest support for, and endorsement of, the establishment of a mechanism for conflict prevention, management and resolution within the Organization of African Unity. We welcome the establishment of the Department of Peace-keeping Operations in the Secretariat for the planning and coordination of all United Nations peace-keeping activities, confident that it will countenance greater regional involvement in conflict management, buttressed by support from the United Nations. On the question of Somalia, the Government of Liberia welcomes the bold and courageous efforts by the United Nations to resolve the tragic situation there and bring peace to that country. We deplore the killing of United Nations peace-keepers in Mogadishu, and we support the 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session efforts by this world body to bring to justice those responsible for such acts. The implementation of the Addis Ababa Accords, signed on 27 March 1993, at the national reconciliation conference, offers the best hope for a peaceful transition to a pacified and democratic State of Somalia. We therefore urge the Somali factions to respect and implement that agreement. Regarding South Africa, we welcome the current multi-party negotiations in that country as the most inclusive forum so far convened to end the apartheid system and create a non-racial, democratic society. We are pleased that, as a result of these negotiations, a democratic Government is scheduled to be elected in April 1994. With regard to Angola, the Government of Liberia wishes to call on UNITA to abandon its military agenda and seek to resolve the crisis through peaceful means in conformity with the Bicesse Accords. In this light, we also make a special appeal to UNITA to conform to the wishes of the people of Angola by accepting the results of the September 1992 elections. We call on it to sign the protocol of agreement negotiated in Abidjan in a spirit of national unity and reconciliation of all Angolans. Last month the world welcomed the historic and dramatic developments affecting peace in the Middle East, when the Government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) recognized each other. The signing of an agreement on Palestinian autonomy means that the first real step has indeed been taken towards Palestinian self-rule. It is our sincerest hope that this agreement will soon be complemented by peace accords between Israel and all of its Arab neighbours. Perhaps no problem, apart from the spectre of a nuclear holocaust, has elicited more global concern than that of the environment, given its intrinsic linkage to man’s survival and his economic well-being. In a world characterized by issues of common concern and ever-increasing interdependence of States, a collective approach is indispensable in meeting the challenges posed by environmental problems and the international economic situation. The environmental crisis is now posing a serious threat to the life-support system of our planet. This is why my delegation believes it is most important that Member States maintain the momentum gained at the historic 1992 Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro, by effective follow-up at the national and international levels. We welcome the establishment of the Commission on Sustainable Development whose responsibility it is to review and monitor implementation of Agenda 21. With respect to the world economic situation, it remains our firm belief that, in order to achieve progress in global economic recovery, issues of long-term significance, such as the excruciating debt burden of developing countries, low commodity prices, protectionism and dwindling resource flow into developing countries, should all form the real agenda for the setting of priorities to include a permanent increase in global economic growth. The current gloomy situation of the international economy, worse now than in the previous decade, is further accentuated by new risks to the world economy caused by conflicts, the problem of refugees and the plight of the world’s children. These problems pose a real threat to growth and development in many regions of the world. In view of what I have said, there is an urgent need, as a part of the continuing effort to forge a new and fairer international economic order, for the peace dividends derived from the easing of bipolar tension to be deployed to meet the development needs of the world’s most economically disadvantaged regions. They should not be reserved for the exclusive use of the already wealthy nations, and they should not be directed only towards the political and economic liberalization of a particular region of the world. All must take into account the fact that economic opportunity and social justice are essential preconditions for peace and security in our global village. The post-cold-war era has offered the United Nations new opportunities and challenges, particularly in the fulfilment of its unique responsibility as the conscience of mankind. In recent years, the United Nations has taken bold decisions in peacemaking, peace-keeping and peace-building, humanitarian intervention and the protection of human rights. These assertive approaches have made the United Nations appear more relevant to the peoples of the world. It is hoped that, in its honourable pursuits, the United Nations will continue to be led by men of vision who can ensure the realization of the noble ideals enshrined in its Charter - fostering world peace and promoting development and cooperation amongst all the peoples of our one world. The Malawi delegation is pleased to join other delegations in congratulating you, Mr. President, on your election to preside over the business of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. Guyana is a sister country which is held in high regard and admiration by Malawi. You are an illustrious son of Guyana and are highly qualified and fully prepared to lead and manage the enormous tasks which must be accomplished at this session of the General Assembly. My delegation wishes your presidency great success. At its forty-seventh session the General Assembly considered important and, in some cases, intractable issues. This would not have been possible were it not for the painstaking patience, efficiency and diplomatic skills of its President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, a distinguished international jurist and former Foreign Minister of Bulgaria. The Malawi delegation congratulates him on a job well done. My delegation wishes to express its profound sorrow for the considerable suffering, loss of life and destruction of property caused by the earthquake which occurred on 29 September 1993 in the Indian state of Maharashtra. The heartfelt and sincere condolences of the Government and the people of Malawi unreservedly go to the Government and the people of India as they struggle to alleviate the painful after-effects of this tragedy. We are thankful to God for giving Malawi good rains in the season just ended. The drought experienced in the last two seasons was severe and devastating in its effects. All of southern Africa suffered terribly from this scourge. Malawi’s economy was seriously affected by the drought, beginning in February 1992. In 1991 economic growth was 7.8 per cent in real gross domestic product. It declined in real terms by 7.9 per cent during 1992, which represented a precipitous fall in real income for the people. The volume of maize, our staple food, was only 600,000 tonnes in 1992, down from the 1991 production level of 1.6 million tonnes. In 1993 Malawi had a good harvest of close to 2 million tonnes of maize. However, complete recovery from the drought will take some time. My delegation would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of my Government and the people of Malawi, to thank the United Nations system and, in particular, the Department of Humanitarian Affairs, which were the major catalysts in the United Nations -southern African Development Community drought relief programme. We also thank the bilateral donors and the non-governmental organizations which, together, saved the day for Malawi and the whole southern African region with massive imports of food, medicines and other humanitarian assistance supplies. However, the Malawi economy continues to be confronted by a major balance-of-payments deficit problem arising from the large volume of maize imports during the drought. Malawi has been hosting a large number of refugees from Mozambique, who started entering Malawi in large numbers in 1986, and by 1992 the refugee population in the country had soared to about 1.5 million people. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the World Food Programme, non-governmental organizations and many other interested parties that have throughout been intimately involved in this humanitarian task will agree that, despite the severe adverse impact of hosting such a large number of people, Malawi is managing one of the most successful refugee programmes in the world, thanks to the prevailing peace, which is due to stable political leadership, good and reliable security structures and a fairly efficient administration. Mr. Martini Herrera (Guatemala), Vice-President, took the Chair. The problem of the Mozambican refugees in Malawi, which was a consequence of the civil war between the Government of Mozambique and RENAMO, will come to an end as all protocols of the Rome General Peace Accord are implemented in full. Malawi, which was represented at the historic signing of the Peace Accord on 4 October 1992, commends President Chissano of the Republic of Mozambique and Mr. Dhlakama, President of RENAMO, for signing the Peace Accord. We strongly encourage them to continue to work closely together and with the United Nations to ensure that peace and political stability are firmly established in Mozambique. This is a prerequisite for the reconstruction of that great and beautiful country to commence and for progress to be realized in all areas of development. My delegation is therefore fully supportive of Security Council resolution 863 (1993) and calls on all the parties to implement it speedily. The Government and people of Malawi wish to see the uninterrupted repatriation of their brothers and sisters to their homes in Mozambique in safety and security. We therefore call for the specific prioritization of the de-mining programme, the demobilization of the armed forces and their 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session placement in the designated assembly areas, and the finalization of discussions on the draft electoral law. The people of Mozambique demand this, and it is also in the vital interests of Malawi, which has suffered tremendously from the adverse impact of the 16-year civil war in Mozambique. My delegation wishes to stress that the cost of hosting over 1 million refugees not only is very high but, for Malawi, has reached a crisis point. This cost is paid in the displacement of Malawians from agricultural land; in over-grazing, deforestation and environmental degradation; in tremendous pressures and strain on the Government administrative infrastructure, budgetary and human resources; and, not least, in the strain on the socio-economic infrastructure such as schools, hospitals, roads, bridges and water supplies. My delegation is taking this opportunity to appeal to the donor community for assistance in all these areas, which are crucial for the country’s sustainable development. The General Peace Accord in Mozambique is close to the heart of Malawi. I therefore wish to reiterate that Malawi will continue to collaborate with Mozambique closely - at the bilateral level, between the Governments of the two sister countries; through the Tripartite Commission, whose members are Malawi, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and Mozambique; and through the Malawi-Mozambique Security Commission - until the peace process has been consolidated. Peace and the return of normal life in Mozambique will guarantee Malawi the use of its traditional, and shortest, routes to the sea via the ports of Nacala and Beira. The reopening and full use of these ports will represent considerable savings through highly reduced transport costs and in limited foreign exchange resources. My country undertook the most historic event since independence by holding, on 14 June 1993, the national referendum which was initiated by our President, His Excellency Ngwazi Kamuzu Banda in order to give the people of Malawi the opportunity to choose between a one-party and multi-party system of government. My delegation is pleased to report to this Assembly that by all accounts, including those of the United Nations, it was a peaceful, free and fair exercise. Sixty-three per cent of the population voted for a multi-party system of government. Their decision was respected and accepted by my President in a landmark statement on 17 June 1993, which included an announcement of his intention to amend the Constitution to allow for the formation of political parties, to call for a general election in a year’s time and to declare a general amnesty to enable political exiles to return home and participate in the political process. My delegation takes this opportunity to convey to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the gratitude of my Government and the people of Malawi for the assistance the United Nations system provided in making the national referendum exercise a resounding success. Intergovernmental organizations such as the European Community and other bilateral donors also provided Malawi with invaluable assistance during this period. My Government is most grateful to all of them. What has happened in Malawi demonstrates beyond question the repeatedly stated commitment of my President and his Government to peaceful reforms, good governance, human rights and democratization. Those who did not believe in the seriousness of this commitment have been proved totally wrong. For the last 29 years of its independence, Malawi has been preoccupied with socio-economic development, which is rural-based in its reality, as a matter of sustained and deliberate Government policy. The country had no other choice because it is completely agricultural, with a large small-holder agriculture component as its backbone. The political leadership consistently and untiringly preached the doctrine of respect for the land and farming to the ordinary people in the villages throughout the country. This has paid off in the disciplined commitment the Malawi people have to farming. As a consequence, over the years a large proportion of donor financing has focused on the agricultural sector. Allow me to take this opportunity to thank, on behalf of my Government, all the multilateral donors - the Bretton Woods institutions and the African Development Bank, among others - and the bilateral cooperating partners for the unremitting assistance they have given Malawi, enabling it to implement successfully its agricultural programmes and projects over these past years. Without this assistance, it would not have been possible to achieve the sense of discipline and respect for farming that is now consolidated in the people of Malawi, which confirms a vision that the Malawi leadership has carried out with practical zeal and tenacity. Regrettably, in the very recent past, Malawi’s modest achievements in the agricultural sector and the economy in general have had to go through severe and unpalatable shocks well beyond the Government’s control, such as the drought and refugee problems. But, more than that, the economy has had to cope in the past year with the sudden Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 19 suspension of donor assistance by the Government’s developed partners. Consequently, the country’s balance-of- payments financing requirements were badly affected and this disproportionately imposed considerable negative results on the economy’s performance. For example, private-sector firms performed far below capacity and the financing of almost all agreed development projects stopped suddenly and completely. Malawi is small, poor and landlocked. It is also in the category of least developed countries, with a population of only about 9 million. Malawi could therefore hardly sustain or cushion this kind of massive damage to its economy. Its external debt burden soared, its terms of trade deteriorated badly and the livelihood of the ordinary men, women and children in the villages was badly affected. The issues of human rights, good governance and other conditionalities that were behind these actions by the donor community have now, I am happy to say, been dealt with decisively, each one in an irreversible manner and, where applicable, by Act of Parliament. For example, due process of law is firmly established and in practice in Malawi. There are no political detainees in any of its prisons. The International Committee of the Red Cross is workinq closely with the Government, and has already visited all prisons and made recommendations for improvements where this has been found to be necessary. There is freedom of expression in the country. As I speak, over 20 newspapers and magazines are in circulation. So far, six political parties have registered and are bracing themselves for the forthcoming general election. At present the Malawi Congress Party, which is continuing to rule the country until the people elect a new government, has, together with other political parties in the country, established the National Consultative Council and the National Executive Committee, which have clearly defined powers to oversee the transitional process in the run- up to the general election. Each of the political parties, including the Malawi Congress Party, has equal representation on the National Consultative Council and the National Executive Committee. Those institutions ensure and guarantee that there is dialogue between and among Malawians, who discuss and resolve whatever differences may exist on the issues affecting the transition. Those institutions replace the President’s Committee on Dialogue and the Public Affairs Committee, which were established immediately after the referendum and, in addition, are designed to work closely with the Government and the National Parliament. The United Nations, particularly through its Electoral Assistance Unit in the Secretariat here in New York and through the Centre for Human Rights in Geneva, has been a catalyst in this whole transitional process. My Government is therefore most encouraged, being convinced that the peace and stability that have existed since the holding of the national referendum will continue until and after the forthcoming general election, which is expected to take place some time in May 1994. These positive and irreversible developments I have described give my Government the confidence that all its bilateral- development partners and its major multilateral donors will fully resume development assistance flows and balance-of-payments support to Malawi. This, we hope, will be done without further delays, in the interests of reviving the economy quickly and reducing the severe damage it has sustained and the unnecessary continued suffering of its people. The Malawi delegation is grateful to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), in particular, because it was the first to confirm, in a report to its Governing Council at its fortieth session, in June, that there existed in Malawi an enabling political, economic and social environment to implement its Fifth Country Programme. The Malawi Government has no need to prove its abiding commitment to development. Allow me, therefore, to take this opportunity to appeal to the donor community not to reduce its pledges of funding to the UNDP. To do so would have catastrophic effects on the whole democratization process, on the ongoing field programmes and projects and also on the successful projects being implemented under the Fifth Country Programme. At this juncture the Malawi delegation wishes to reaffirm its unwavering support of the recently adopted Tokyo Declaration on African Development, which represents the first concrete action and commitment of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. Malawi, a least-developed country, would also like to take this opportunity to lend its unwavering support to the Programme of Action for Least-Developed Countries, which found its expression in the Declaration issued by the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of least-developed countries when they met here in New York on 30 September 1993, and to the Declaration of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Group of 77 that was adopted on 5 October 1993. We hope that the donor community will respond positively and act accordingly on these specific problems affecting the developing countries. Their decisive resolutions are pivotal to the role of the United Nations in development and integral to the call issued in General Assembly resolution 47/181 for the Secretary-General to prepare a comprehensive report on an agenda for development and for the Assembly to discuss it in its preliminary form at this current session. 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Malawi is not oblivious of the wider political atmosphere that is affecting international relations and causing serious problems with regard to peace and security. The desperate situation and horrendous scenes of the civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina represent one such example. It is the strong conviction of the Malawi Government that peace is the only answer to the unending violence we are witnessing in the Balkans. There is an extremely urgent need to end the suffering of the people there - innocent men, women and children. My delegation strongly supports all efforts of the United Nations and the European Community, and those of other parties, to resolve the problem through the ongoing negotiations in Geneva and elsewhere. The problem is a human catastrophe, notwithstanding its tragic, historical roots. With regard to Somalia, my Government is of the view that the Somalis should resolve their problems themselves. However, the prerequisite for realizing that objective is to establish and consolidate peace throughout Somalia and to help create processes that will make it possible for the country to reaffirm its sovereignty. Tremendous humanitarian-assistance achievements have already been made to alleviate the plight of the Somali people, who are suffering from hunger, starvation and death in the midst of mayhem, anarchy and the complete collapse of civil authority. The United Nations and the international community, through the contributions of selfless non- governmental organizations and all nations - particularly the United States, which has contributed troops under the United Nations flag - deserve to be thanked for bringing Somalia back to life. In the view of my delegation, it is imperative that the United Nations and the international community be allowed to complete this wholesome task by establishing conditions for peace and civil authority based clearly on the Addis Ababa agreements of 27 March 1993. The Malawi delegation fully supports the present United Nations role in Somalia. Similarly, it is the strong conviction of my Government that the present situation in Angola calls for strong and dramatic action by the international community. The United Nations has been selfless in what it has done in Angola, where the untold suffering of women, children and the elderly goes on unabated and is indeed completely inexplicable and totally unnecessary. The Malawi delegation calls upon the Organization of African Unity, the United Nations and the signatory Powers to the Bicesse Peace Accords to compel the UNITA leadership to come to the negotiating table with the Angola Government to establish peace, security and stability in the country. My Government fully supports Security Council resolution 864 (1993), which has now been put into effect. Dr. Savimbi and the UNITA leadership must not ignore international concerns and the content of that resolution. They must honour and respect the results of the United Nations-supervised general election, which by all accounts was free and fair. With regard to the situation in South Africa, the Malawi delegation wishes to put on record its complete support for the historic agreement by the Multi-Party Negotiating Council in Johannesburg, whose successfully negotiated transitional institutions have now been enacted into law by the parliament in Cape Town. Those institutions are designed to oversee and control the influential factors in the run-up to the general election on 27 April 1994. I refer in particular to the Transitional Executive Council and to the Independent Broadcasting Authority, the Independent Media Commission and the Independent Electoral Commission. My delegation takes this opportunity, on behalf of the Malawi Government, to congratulate all the parties on the Negotiating Council and, in particular, the African National Congress and Mr. Nelson Mandela, its President, and the President of South Africa, Mr. Frederick de Klerk and his National Party. It has been a very long haul to reach this historic stage, and the imperative is therefore clear, namely, that all possible assistance by the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity, the European Community, the Commonwealth Secretariat and friendly Governments and people of good will must now be intensified in order to remove all forms of violence, ensure that the general election takes place on 27 April 1994 and that a non-racial, democratic government is installed in South Africa, based on the will of the majority of its people. My delegation welcomes the historic agreement on mutual recognition between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) which was signed on 13 September 1993 in Washington, D.C. It provides a framework for lasting peace in the Middle East, and in the view of the Malawi delegation, it deserves all the support it can receive from all well-disposed sources. History dictates that this should be so. This agreement is a prerequisite to international peace, security and political stability beyond the Middle East. The PLO/Israel peace agreement is yet another demonstration of the dramatic changes in international relations that have taken place in the last three to four years, following the collapse of communism and the end of the cold war. It is in this context, that my Government is optimistic that the still unresolved major international political issues will be similarly dealt with, issues such as Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 21 the problem of North and South Korea and that of the People’s Republic of China and the Republic of China on Taiwan. In the view of the Malawi delegation, the time has now come for serious consideration to be given to the eligibility of the Republic of China on Taiwan to become a Member of the United Nations. We cannot talk about human rights and the universality of the United Nations while in the same breath ignoring the existence of over 20 million people in the Republic of China on Taiwan. Finally, allow me to make observations on two pertinent issues. First, my delegation welcomes the recent pronouncement by the United States delegation on supporting the membership of Japan and Germany in the Security Council. This announcement is definite recognition that the time has come for representation in the Security Council to reflect the changed international political scene and reality as well as geographical balance. The Security Council must not only be transparent in its decision-making; it is a political necessity that it also reflect what the world is today, and not what it was 48 years ago. There is no other organ in the United Nations today which makes such momentous decisions affecting international peace and security. My delegation is therefore strongly of the view that Africa equally deserves to have a permanent seat or equal and balanced representation of some kind, in the Council. The Malawi delegation looks forward to the expected deliberations on this issue, which will inevitably go beyond the life of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Representation on governing councils of the respective United Nations agencies and bodies is another important subject before the General Assembly at this session, in the context of the reform, restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations in all its aspects. My delegation supports a negotiated approach to the points of disagreement between the developing countries and their partners in development as a whole. The only way forward is for the two groups to work together and arrive at a consensus by the end of November 1994. My delegation will support the view taken by the Group of 77 on this issue, when it comes to a conclusion in due course. I wish you, Sir, and the Assembly fruitful deliberations. Before making my statement I should like to take this opportunity to express my country’s deepest sympathy with the Government and people of India as they mourn the thousands of lives lost during last week’s earthquake. I wish to congratulate you on your election, Mr. President; to thank the outgoing President for his contribution to the work of the United Nations; and to welcome all the new Members of our Organization. Much has been expected of the United Nations in the past year. Its priority has been to ensure that the profound political and economic change does not result in global conflict. This has sometimes meant coordinating international efforts. On other occasions the United Nations has had to take the lead in these operations. At the same time, it has continued to take up the challenges presented by the many far-reaching social, humanitarian and Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993 7 environmental problems of our day. These have proved more and more difficult to contain within national or even regional boundaries. The United Nations responsibilities have often been undertaken under most unfavourable conditions. I am therefore pleased that our Secretary-General and the countries representing the United Nations have always responded positively to the situations they have faced. I hope that they will continue to do this, even after such distressing events as those which have occurred in Somalia this week. I say this because the past year has seen so many valuable achievements. The success of the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia has shown what can be done through responsible regional efforts and patient multilateral action. In South Africa, national, regional and international efforts in support of United Nations resolutions have brought new hope. In the Middle East, the United Nations has been a positive influence in reducing tension after the Gulf War. We also welcome the agreement between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel. This is the first step towards a peaceful settlement of the Palestinian question. There have also been several initiatives aimed at improving the world economy and developing better trading arrangements in regions. At the same time, the United Nations has continued to give essential assistance to people in developing countries. It has also maintained its peace- keeping operations in a number of problem areas. The United Nations has also organized important international conferences where nations have been able to exchange views on many matters of international concern. This represents a considerable contribution to preventive diplomacy and peace-building. In each case, I hope these achievements will be consolidated by national and regional authorities. In Cambodia, we wish the new Government every success as they go about the task of bringing lasting stability to their nation. Like all the countries in our region, we look forward to seeing the Cambodian people enjoying peace and prosperity again. In South Africa, I believe conditions now exist for national leaders to encourage restraint and seek consensus. The countries in the Gulf region are also in a position to work towards peaceful solutions to the remaining areas of difficulty. In the Middle East, current developments should start a process that will restore all legitimate Palestinian rights and should lead to a comprehensive settlement in the region. In terms of the world economy, objectives have been set. What we hope to see now is equally clear progress in strengthening linkages between the North and the South and in creating conditions that promote cooperation and sustainable growth. To do this, we need to improve the existing mechanisms for preventing economic disagreements from turning into open conflict. Each nation has a responsibility to promote fair trading arrangements throughout the world. Today’s overall situation presents many challenges. I feel that we can continue to turn them into positive developments if we note carefully the circumstances under which the United Nations appears to achieve its greatest successes. These occur when the special responsibilities of national Governments, non-governmental organizations and regional associations are recognized and agreed upon before the world body is asked to act. Where those responsibilities have been in confrontation with each other, the effectiveness of United Nations operations has been hindered. This is clearly illustrated in Somalia and in Bosnia. In those countries, the United Nations initially acted in order to guarantee safe and effective humanitarian assistance. There have been considerable successes in these operations, and I thank those who have achieved them for their humanitarian work. However, these efforts and the fact that conflict has not been allowed to spread outside the regions concerned should not divert our attention from the deep matters of principle involved. That is why we wish to express our strong support for the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We believe that the United Nations Charter would be severely compromised if the Organization became a party to any arrangement which forces a sovereign nation and fellow Member of the United Nations to submit to aggression. Not only would this condone terrorism - it would reward it. In seeking to ensure that the United Nations does not become merely another factor in a local political equation, there are a number of proposals for reform. These are intended to give confidence to Members that United Nations decisions reflect the widest possible spectrum of world opinion. If they also assist in solving the world body’s deep 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session financial problems, I see merit in considering them favourably. We all have our different views on how the United Nations should best operate. Whatever they are, I hope we will make every effort to encourage our regional and subregional associations to play a crucial supporting role. Ideally, each region will be working on its own agenda for peace and development which will complement the work of the world body. The more this is done, the more the United Nations will be able to act in the way in which it is most effective - as the authority of last resort. In this way, I believe we can make considerable progress towards establishing what the Secretary-General has described as a workable international system. Mr. President, Uruguay wishes to express its satisfaction, and its trust in you, upon your election as President of the General Assembly and as a representative of our region. Your capabilities are recognized by all, and your sense of impartiality and justice are the best guarantee of success in the important work entrusted to us. We also wish to congratulate the Secretary-General on his work over the last year, which was clearly described in his report to the General Assembly. His personal leadership and decisiveness certainly contribute to international peace and security. Finally, we are happy to welcome the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Monaco, Eritrea and Andorra as new Member States. We are pleased to see this confirmation of the Organization’s dedication to universality and openness, as Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 13 given form in Article 4 of the Charter, to which Uruguay has always adhered. Ideological concepts are today lagging behind a reality that persists in reaffirming the validity of freedom as a point of reference in every effort to regain and preserve human dignity. The great challenge of our time is to find a collective answer to the dizzying changes that are occurring as this century comes to its close. The technological revolution and the spread of democracy are the two factors that will empower humankind in its most genuine flowering. In the political field, the new international order that we are seeing emerge is nourished by the fall of political and military blocs, the collapse of ideological borders and a deepening of disarmament. Cooperation is replacing confrontation. The elements of power are being reallocated in the light of the new variables that offer a renewed challenge to the multilateral organizations in the international arena. In the economic field, technological development has replaced traditional comparative advantages with competitiveness and excellence. Quality is the basis for the production of goods and services. These trends, if stripped of their human element, would be little more than a materialistic expression lacking the necessary sense of solidarity. A new order cannot be summed up simply as a reallocation of the outward expressions of power. The global nature and the interdependence that characterize international relations today find their ethical content and legal expression in the continuing validity of the fundamental principles of international law. In this context, we are facing today new horizons and better prospects for understanding between nations. In this respect, we hail with particular satisfaction the peace reached in the Middle East between the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, and we welcome it as an example and symbol of the new era of cooperation which nations must carry forward on the threshold of the new century. Also, within the Latin American region, Uruguay is pleased to point to the consolidation of the peace processes in El Salvador and Guatemala. This has been achieved through the efforts made by their peoples and Governments, with the constant support of the international community. The practice of direct diplomacy, with mechanisms for political consultation and coordination, has been successful. In this context, Uruguay wishes to stress the role played by the Organization of American States in the grave crises suffered by Peru, Guatemala and Haiti. We can add little to a diagnosis on which we all agree. Our responsibility lies in our capacity to propose solutions, both in our own domestic spheres and internationally; this is a challenge that every generation faces, taking national feelings as the basis for a leap forward towards prosperity and the expression of the international community as a basis for the credibility that nurtures the hopes of the great dispossessed majorities. Uruguay wishes here to emphasize three particularly important issues: the relationship between international trade, development and political stability; the new articulation of the concept of collective security; and, lastly, the problems of human rights and the environment as part of broadening the concept of integral development. The dissoluble interdependence between development and political stability is obvious. Freedom in its most complete expression admits of no ambiguous interpretation. And, just as human rights cannot be subject to the whims of Governments, neither can free trade be limited by the pressures of national or sectoral interests. Political freedom and free trade are two sides of the same coin. The opening of markets between developed and developing countries cannot therefore be seen as a zero-sum exercise; rather, it is an undertaking of benefit to all. Greater competitiveness powers the process that begins with growth, is strengthened by a better distribution of wealth and is consolidated by the credibility of democracy and its institutions. This shared responsibility makes no allowance for double-talk from any side. In our capacity as Chairman of the Negotiating Committee of the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) at the ministerial level, we wish to express our concern over the obstacles in the way of 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session concluding the Round. After seven long years of negotiations, certain trends continue to obstruct the multilateralization process. Bilateral negotiations are curtailing opportunities for reaching a comprehensive, balanced result that takes into account all the interests at stake, and particularly those of the developing countries, in accordance with GATT’s own norms. For several years now Uruguay has been working hard to make structural adjustments in its economy. Policies to make trade more open, both domestically and internationally, have been put in place with the aim of modernizing the industrial sector, facilitating technological innovation and increasing competitiveness so as to achieve, in the final analysis, a more efficient integration into the world economy and world trade. Deregulation of production, reform and modernization of the public sector as well as strict fiscal adjustments aimed at balancing the use of the country’s financial and monetary resources have supplemented external liberalization policies which have placed us among those who have reduced tariff and non-tariff barriers at the fastest rate. This great effort of adjustment carried out by Uruguay - in a similar fashion to many other developing countries - has been achieved not only in the framework of deep social, economic and political difficulties, but has also been undertaken unilaterally without any compensation at all from its partners in the international system, especially the more developed countries. Thus Uruguay emphasizes once again its firmest rejection of all protectionist policies which continue to be applied by some highly industrialized countries. These are clearly incompatible with the rules of GATT and with the status quo commitments agreed at the beginning of the Uruguay Round. At the same time, they are a disincentive for the efforts made in the framework of democracy to strengthen institutions and to have an appropriate social dialogue. It is disquieting to witness the behaviour of many countries which preach the virtues and benefits of the free market and economic liberalism but at the same time close their borders to trade from countries whose well-being depends to a significant degree on access to such markets. Therefore, Uruguay calls once again and most emphatically on all nations, especially the major trading partners, to make possible a successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round negotiations, in which comprehensiveness and balance are values to be preserved in a strengthened multilateral framework. In this context, Uruguay also believes that regional integration is the best path towards international participation. Today nothing can be done individually. Interrelationships exist between large economic blocs; no country can escape that reality. The creation of economic blocs must be interpreted as a consequence of a process of integration and liberalization of world markets. Blocs are a tangible approximation, an intermediate step, to the goal of free trade, the ultimate goal of GATT. Furthermore, this is the thrust of Uruguay’s resolute participation in the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) and of the integration efforts of the North American Free Trade Agreement, the Group of Three, the Andean Pact and the bilateral agreements within the Latin American Integration Association. Uruguay recognizes that the new concept of international security includes institutional, legal and political aspects. From an institutional standpoint, we must avoid extensive use of the powers of the Security Council based on a sense of pragmatism that might undermine the criteria governing the delicate balance between the main organs of the United Nations. The disappearance of bipolarity enables a new political reality to pervade the Council’s decisions. If, on the one hand, the traditional situations caused by the cold war have been unblocked, on the other hand, there must be careful control of the trend towards possible excesses of power by those nations enjoying a privileged situation. Uruguay shares the thoughts of the Secretary-General expressed in paragraph 80 of his document 'An Agenda for Peace' (A/47/277): 'The powerful must resist the dual but opposite calls of unilateralism and isolationism if the United Nations is to succeed.' The General Assembly must reassert its authority on the basis of the Articles of the Charter which define its functions and powers. In the area of peace and security, the General Assembly’s constitutional limitations are set out in Articles 12, 24 and 36 of the Charter. These we abide by. Nevertheless, its primacy is clear in the economic and social areas. To revitalize the General Assembly is to identify its original mandate, reaffirming its areas of authority and giving this organ, in which we are all permanently represented, stronger involvement in the Organization’s Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 15 activities. This is the way to contribute to equity and the balance of power established by the Charter. We also believe in strengthening the International Court of Justice, both in its administrative and consultative functions. What I have said does not weaken our support for adapting the Security Council to the new international reality by reforming its composition and working methods. This process must gain general consensus and respect the principle of the sovereign equality of States. Only in this way can we ensure greater representation, transparency and efficiency. We also believe that all this energy for renewal must be injected appropriately into the Organization’s bureaucracy. The United Nations is the sum of its organs, including its specialized agencies. An improvement in efficiency must go hand in hand with possible global transformations. We must strive to rationalize our operational systems in order to streamline administrative procedures, which often amass through inertia hundreds of initiatives which wander aimlessly, at great cost, through the machinery of an insatiable bureaucracy. International security also finds its most genuine expression in strict compliance with international law. In this context, which is fraught with uncertainty and unpredictable events, the principles of self-determination, non-intervention, the peaceful settlement of disputes and the observance of good faith in the fulfilment of international obligations must be interpreted not as concepts that are vague or not properly drawn up by a naive legal system, but as the pillars of international relations. It is also out of political realism and pragmatism that Uruguay turns to the law as the main shield for its defence. Our former Ambassador to the United Nations, Dr. Carlos María Velázquez, has said that the small countries 'need to know, for reasons of our true national interest, how far we can go and - most important - where we can be taken. Respect for the law and international behaviour that follows legal rules are the only path towards a consolidation of the values of culture, freedom and dignity.' Uruguay, true to its tradition, continues to interpret Article 51 of the Charter strictly and continues to claim the compensation to which it is entitled under Article 50 as a consequence of the losses caused by the Gulf War. It does so not only for material reasons, but because it believes that collective security is based on the credibility of the rules that regulate it. Just as Uruguay is a jealous guardian of the principles of international law, it is genuinely open to all those undertakings which, in fulfilment of an international mandate, constitute an indispensable contribution to world peace and security. Thus, we believe that peace-keeping operations are an essential part of the multilateral policy of the United Nations, without prejudice to the necessary efforts being made in the field of preventive diplomacy. Uruguay has increased the number of armed forces personnel placed at the disposal of the United Nations. The numbers are highly significant in relation to the country’s population and the size of its military. It has also expressed to the Secretary-General its readiness to host regional training centres for United Nations peace-keeping forces. Our armed forces adopt a professional approach to peace-keeping missions, in which they are representatives of the international community. It gives them satisfaction to see their efforts contributing to establishing peace between States and to regional and national reconciliation, as in Cambodia, where, at last, democratic values and respect for human rights prevail. We are concerned, however, over the risk of these operations’ being discontinued because of delays in the payment of countries’ contributions. It would be contrary to the principle of universality if, owing to these difficulties, only countries with vast financial resources could participate in such operations. We believe that this policy of collective security must be supplemented by a policy of disarmament and a universal ban on nuclear weapons. The signing of international non-proliferation agreements and the adoption of the Convention banning chemical weapons, which was signed in Paris last January, constitute progress in this field - progress that we endorse. We are also pleased to highlight the contribution of our neighbours Argentina, Brazil and the Republic of Chile through their implementation of regional agreements aimed at ensuring the peaceful use of nuclear energy and the non-proliferation of all types of weapons of mass destruction. Stability and balance are threatened by poverty on a vast scale - widespread and critical poverty. Social 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session development implies giving priority to social expenditure, but only where this is made possible by real growth, allowing for a reduction of the voluntary sector that is developing in many of our societies. Collective security, as well as ethics, must be taken into account in our approach to this entire problem. Uruguay therefore attaches great importance to Chile’s welcome initiative in the convening of the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in 1995. This will provide a great opportunity for serious study of the scope of the concept of social development. The ultimate beneficiaries of the integral development of the nations of the international community must be man and his environment. We therefore wish to highlight here the importance of action on issues related to human rights and preservation of the environment. At present, technology and international peace and security are based on a narrow interpretation of the concept of human rights. Words and speeches are useless if, as President Clinton suggested, while we are gathered at this General Assembly thousands of children in the world are dying of hunger. What of the essence of democracy can we rescue if, as in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in many other places, we look on helplessly as people indulge in behaviour that we thought had been eradicated for ever? The concept of human rights - their intrinsic worth and nature - is not affected by political, religious, sectional or even State interests or considerations. The ethical heritage of contemporary international society cannot allow concessions in the defence of these rights and principles. Any concession would affect the credibility of the institutions and values of freedom and human dignity as the bases of democracy. During the Vienna World Conference on Human Rights, the States parties solemnly reaffirmed their commitment to promoting respect for and protection of those rights. In this context, our country supports the establishment of a high commissioner for human rights, in the framework of the international system. Moreover, Uruguay repeats President Lacalle’s statement to the Secretary-General of our country’s willingness to help in the evacuation of children who are innocent victims of hatred and intolerance. We hope that inertia will not prevail over political decisions or human sensitivity. Those who suffer and die in the midst of collective insanity must not be held hostage to bureaucratic structures. If this happens, the documents approved at the World Summit for Children in September 1990 will have been relegated to the rhetorical scrapheap of its meetings. Integral development implies careful consideration of the problems of the environment. The concept of sustainable development requires a link between environmental issues and economic and social issues. In this context, States must undertake bilateral and multilateral commitments, by means of conventions, going beyond mere statements. This is also an aspect of the North-South dialogue and of action to deal with the conflicts of interests that it entails. Uruguay has incorporated in a cross-border agreement with Brazil the concept of responsibility for environmental degradation. It wishes to reiterate the need to establish a legal system to resolve environmental disputes through codification of international environmental law, in the spirit of the resolution adopted at the Rio Summit in 1992. Finding a way to force States to accept responsibility for non-compliance with the rules for protection of the environment continues to be the basis for a fair relationship between the industrialized countries and the developing countries. Such are the main issues of concern to Uruguay. In the framework of all the ambivalence, all the areas of light and shadow in the international arena, we are taking part in this session of the General Assembly - as we have done since the foundation of the United Nations - in the hope that deeds will be shown to be more eloquent than words. On behalf of the Federated States of Micronesia, I am honoured this morning to address the General Assembly at its forty- eighth session, and I bring the warm greetings of our President and our people. Given the many challenges facing the Organization and the entire world in the coming year, we are pleased by your election, Mr. President. You have our confidence and support as you assume this high office, so ably discharged by your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, who enjoyed our respect and gratitude. Special recognition must also be given to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, under whose leadership the United Nations has taken difficult steps in a process of redefinition and reorganization, which is necessary if we are to take advantage of the opportunities presented by the new world order and work together in the interests of all mankind. During the past year we have seen the membership of the United Nations draw ever closer to the goal of universality. We thus congratulate the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Eritrea, Monaco and Andorra, and to each of them we extend a welcome and pledge cooperation and friendship. Our people are deeply saddened by the loss of life and the suffering caused by the earthquake in India last month, and we express to the Indian people our sincere sympathy and pledge to them that we will participate in any effort undertaken by this Organization. Not many years ago, the appropriate role of the 'micro-States' within the world community was to be seen but seldom heard, and even to be excluded from many forums. In our own small island developing State, we, as the body politic of a classic 'micro-State', hesitated to assert our views on international affairs, thinking that a small nation could not make a difference in or have an impact upon the resolution of global issues. Today I draw attention to a significant but less noticeable feature of the new order. Throughout history, international relations have been conducted on a competitive basis, where power and size made a difference. But I am happy to note that things have changed for the better, that a change has begun to take place; and I think it is one that has gathered increased momentum even within the past few years. Nations large and small, in the process of working together under the Charter, have begun to focus their attention and direct their efforts along the lines of commonality of interests and problems - and not merely to pay lip-service. Indeed there is a growing, genuine phenomenon, which is seen partly in the unfolding of events in New York, but even more clearly in the impressive outcomes of the Rio Conference on Environment and Development and the recent World Conference on Human Rights. Another sign is the entire world community’s keen anticipation of the upcoming Conference on Population and Development and the World Summit for Social Development. I do not mean to suggest a disappearance of national interests; but, across a wide spectrum of social, development and even security matters, there is a growing recognition that common interests give strength to new alliances on an inclusive rather than exclusive basis. Thus, there is good reason for continued progress towards self-determination among peoples, since they can now be confident that they will not be alone in addressing the great difficulties of starting out. For similar reasons, many of the 'micro-States' have concluded recently that membership in this Organization is imperative, despite the burdens and responsibilities involved. As this session of the General Assembly proceeds, we are becoming aware of the changes in the Organization in terms of organization, administration and policy. There may be some who doubt that Members have the will or commitment to achieve consensus on these changes and to re-establish the proper financial basis for a United Nations that can be responsive to the present. I submit, however, that any such doubts must be dispelled during our work here in the coming months, for we simply cannot afford to fail. The United Nations is no longer an optional feature of the international community. The common concerns of mankind in the great issues to which I alluded earlier cannot be addressed from behind national fences. And so, I appeal to all Members to commit themselves fully to reaching at this session the goal of preparing the United Nations to become the central instrument through which we can work to secure the future well-being of our peoples. I believe that the direct experience of my country within our brief time as a Member provides unmistakable evidence of the strength of concerted, international action. Only a few years ago, having emerged from colonialism, our best hopes for development lay in dependence for an indefinite period on the generosity of a few friends, chief among them the United States. Moreover, as inhabitants of small, low-lying islands, we were helpless in the face of the looming threat of sea-level rise and other natural disasters caused by human-induced climate change. Today, through the work of this body and with our participation, the special development needs and environmental concerns of all small island developing States are being carefully addressed in a number of settings, including the Conventions on climate change and biodiversity and the follow-up activities of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED). The early work of the Commission on Sustainable Development promises attention to our problems, as can be seen in the upcoming first Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. All this is not happening because of an outburst of charitable sympathy by the developed countries, but rather in the context of addressing a complex of issues in which peoples everywhere have a stake. Herein, I think, lies the real strength and value of the United Nations - to us and to all. During the past year, my Government has found encouragement in the ways in which this Organization as a whole recognizes the difficulties that small States encounter as they try to participate fully in its work. We deeply appreciate the opportunities afforded to us through the contribution of Members to voluntary funds that have enabled our participation in important functions. We also acknowledge the instances where calls by small States for the holding of meetings here in New York to make our presence possible have been heard. Furthermore, we appreciate that, whenever possible, special measures for our benefit - such as limiting the number of simultaneous meetings - are being taken. For our part, small States are now more often coming together on common issues to speak with one voice for greater effectiveness and efficiency. Here, I cite the Alliance of Small Island States as a successful example on the issue of climate change and other UNCED-related matters. In a more general sense, the regional groups operate to the benefit of small States, affording us opportunities of access to elected positions by virtue of allocations and the principle of rotation. I am sure there are other factors favourable to us that I have failed to mention here. Yet, even with all this, I must state that we are very hard pressed to participate in the broad range of United Nations activities, both financially and owing to the sheer volume and complexity of those activities. For this reason, and because so many other Members are in similar situations, I propose that the United Nations, as part of its reorganization efforts, undertake a comprehensive examination of the obstacles that exist to the full participation of small States with a view towards identifying institutional rather than ad hoc solutions. After all, achieving universality in the United Nations would be a hollow accomplishment so long as a significant number of Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993 3 Members remain incapable of reaching their effective potential within the Organization. We look forward to addressing this issue during the course of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. My country is a member of the South Pacific Forum, an organization of Governments of Pacific island countries which, each year prior to this date, meets to address matters of concern to our region and to provide an expression of our joint views on many issues before this body. I wish to state our complete solidarity with that expression, contained in the communiqué from our recent meeting in the Republic of Nauru, which will be presented for incorporation in the records of this Assembly. The Forum members have been outspoken in opposing the testing of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. Our optimism ran very high at the Nauru meeting because it seemed that at last the nuclear Powers had found the resolve to bring this dangerous chapter of history to an end. Now, with reports of a recent test by one of them, the Federated States of Micronesia is deeply concerned that the great progress made towards achieving a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty will be reversed. We call on all nuclear Powers not to treat this recent aberration as an incentive to turn backwards, but rather to restore and hold to their collective discipline. The issue of fundamental human rights is interwoven into every aspect of the activities undertaken by this body. For too long many Governments have been content to avoid confronting it directly as a matter of multilateral responsibility. I am glad to say that we sense some improvement in the situation despite continuing occurrences of the most repugnant kinds of human rights violations. In this decade, we have witnessed unprecedented changes in world conditions, brought about in part by a growing unanimity of resolve among peoples to express and exercise their fundamental human rights. Recently, prominent States have been dismantled, leading to the formation of other States that afford broader opportunities for the expression of these rights. Sadly, at the same time, other States continue to go to great lengths to suppress them. The world finds itself rejoicing in newly established freedoms but also feeling deep revulsion over atrocities and repression of shocking magnitude. If any lesson emerges from this dichotomy, it must be that isolated progress is not enough and that fundamental human rights issues can no longer be relegated to the background in a set of supposedly higher multilateral priorities. Rather, human rights must be the cornerstone of our work, which must be guided by the principles of the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Accordingly, my Government expresses its support for the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action agreed upon at the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna in June this year. We support the adoption of that Declaration by the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. In keeping with the principles of that Declaration, I wish to affirm my Government’s strong and unconditional support for the universality of human rights and for the effective multilateral instruments that give meaning and definition to the concept. As an early priority, our new nation has undertaken a close examination of the existing instruments with a view to freely assuming obligations under them, as is consistent with our Constitution. As a first step, we have acceded to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and we anticipate further action on other instruments as well. One of the very important concerns that is interlinked with all our Government’s hopes for a better future is the rights of women. We fully support the development of effective new instruments in the cause of women’s rights in order to secure their protection against discrimination and abuse. As a nation comprised entirely of indigenous peoples, my Government also expresses its solidarity with all indigenous peoples of the world and particularly those subjected to deprivation of their fundamental human rights within their own homelands. In this the International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism it is important that this body redouble its efforts to ensure that the peoples of the remaining Non-Self- Governing Territories are given every opportunity to exercise their right to self-determination and self-government. While the obstacles to self-determination for the remaining Territories are minor compared to those that are being confronted so dramatically in Eastern Europe and in Palestine, it remains our moral responsibility to support the right to self-determination for all peoples under colonial administration. Today, the enlarged membership of the United Nations is in itself strong testimony to the success of decolonization; let us hark back to our own earlier struggles and recommit ourselves to the complete elimination of colonialism. 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session My Government welcomes the establishment of the International Tribunal, and the recent election of its members, to try perpetrators of war crimes in the former Republic of Yugoslavia. Still, we would support the establishment of a permanent international human rights tribunal. The independent, juridical composition of any such body should place it above concerns regarding political intervention while denying human rights violators any refuge from defined international responsibility. The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia attaches great importance to the issue of fundamental human rights, and will continue to participate in the work of this body towards a world community in which all peoples live without threat of encroachment upon these fundamental rights. It has been well established by actions of this body that the right to development is itself a fundamental human right. But to recognize a right is one thing: to secure the exercise of that right is much more difficult. A great deal is said and done here at the United Nations every year to address the needs of developing countries and peoples, not to mention the considerable resources that are mobilized bilaterally towards that end. Yet we continue to see wide variations in the degree of effectiveness of that assistance and in the results of efforts by developing countries themselves. This has led an increasing number of us to question whether there might not exist a number of identifiable factors that prevent development efforts from achieving success. If those factors could be defined with precision and recognized where they are present, it might well be possible to attain significant increases in economies and outcomes. On Papua New Guinea’s welcome suggestion, and with its welcome leadership - and after considerable discussion and extensive exchanges of views between eminent leaders in the developing world - this matter has been placed before the Assembly as agenda item 151, entitled 'United Nations initiative on opportunity and participation'. We shall join others in sponsoring a draft resolution to be presented under this item and calling for a comprehensive, systematic and thorough study of the encumbrances to full opportunity and participation in development, with particular reference to the economies of developing countries. If properly supported and carried out, this initiative would make possible significant breakthroughs in the effort to secure this important and fundamental human right, with equality and equity for all. The Federated States of Micronesia pays a tribute to the enlightened men and women who gave life to the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) process and focused the world’s attention on the need to begin replacing wasteful and polluting practices with sustainable development. This movement is especially well-timed for my country, since our development planning is still in the early stages and, as a consequence, and with the encouragement and support of the world community, we now have in place a national environmental management strategy that provides an essential complement to our development-planning efforts. We intend for our country to become a model of effective partnership with other nations, and with this body, demonstrating the application of new, clean technologies in order to accommodate sustainable development within a small, pristine environment. Of course, as a nation of remote and widely dispersed small islands, many of which are low-lying atolls, we experience all the difficulties recognized in section G of chapter 17 of Agenda 21 as inhibiting the development of small island countries. Thus, we are thankful for the opportunity now before us to enhance general understanding of those difficulties through the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island States. As a member of the Alliance of Small Island States, we are participating fully in that process. It was most encouraging to note, at the recent preparatory conference, the strong participation by developed countries and also the solid support from our colleagues in the Group of 77. We shall fully reciprocate that support in all appropriate settings because, despite our awareness of our own problems, we know that virtually all developing countries exhibit one or more disabling characteristics that distinguish them from the others. While we are part of a relatively large grouping of countries that share similar characteristics and disabilities, all developing countries deserve to have attention paid to their particular obstacles to development. In that light, we perceive the Barbados Conference next year as an important early milestone in the post-Rio process, not only for small island developing States but for all nations, developed and developing, that believe as we do in the Rio Declaration and in Agenda 21. The Barbados Conference is, in our view, the first real test of Agenda 21. It may seem at times that we of the region of the Pacific islands are overly-preoccupied about our environment, and that we take too broad a view of the potential impact resulting from the actions of others. We raise our voices loudly and often on the subject of Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993 5 human-induced climate change and sea-level rise, but many say that it may not happen. We speak out against nuclear testing, especially in and among our islands, but those who are more powerful say that it probably is not harmful. We strongly urge that lethal toxic substances such as plutonium and chemical weapons not be transported through or stored within our region, but even some of our closest friends do so regardless, insisting that in all likelihood there is no danger. Are we too concerned? Are we naive? I believe that we are not, because the Pacific region appears to be a vast, thinly populated ocean area and thus a prime location for the dirty business of others - but that region is our home and our responsibility. Not only must we provide for ourselves from its bounty, but we are also stewards of what is coming to be recognized in scientific circles as the last remaining great unspoiled natural resource of the planet. Our fisheries are plentiful, but they could be threatened if experiences elsewhere in the world are repeated. Our air is still clean, but we now know we are vulnerable to occurrences elsewhere. Our water is still pure, but we have seen other seas contaminated by unsustainable practices. We must, and will continue to, speak out. Our region is not simply the victim of the callous disregard of the powerful for the consequences visited upon the poor or the weak. Rather, we recognize that for centuries mankind has regarded the vast oceans as free space, open to all passage and exploitation. Although exclusive economic zones and multilateral treaties have had major impact, the fact remains that the Pacific Ocean is today the world’s ultimate 'back yard'. My country’s plea, then, is quite simple and straightforward. We call on all members of the world community to join us, in the spirit of Rio, in a true partnership for the sustainable development, not just of one or more Pacific island countries, but of our ocean and all that is in it. One important focus must, of course, be upon the land and coastal areas within our region, in order to accommodate appropriate development without degrading either the land or its surrounding marine space. But another, broader, focus must be on the ocean itself - to respect and build upon the growing scientific knowledge of its complex ecological systems. It is well known that the Federated States of Micronesia, along with other low-lying island countries of the World, is literally frightened that its scarce land space may be made uninhabitable and ultimately disappear if even the moderate predictions of global warming and sea-level rise come to pass. But if this were the only concern with regard to human-induced climate change, loss of biodiversity and unsustainable development, we would be hard put to call upon the world at large to make fundamental changes in the way it lives. Ours, however, is by no means an isolated concern. As the South Pacific Forum Heads of Government have stressed for some years, the fate of the islands is an advance warning of things to come, as we have predicted. Thanks to the trends that I discussed earlier in respect of the modern realignment of motivations for international cooperation, I have tremendous confidence that we, and our children and their children, will succeed not only in preserving the environment but also in maintaining the pace towards the ultimate goals of peace, enjoyment of human rights and social enrichment, as enshrined in the Charter. My country pledges its efforts within this great Organization, during this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly and afterwards, towards the attainment of these ends. Allow me first of all, Sir, to associate myself with the congratulations already extended to you on your election to the high office of President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session and to wish you every success in your endeavours. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, I should like to convey deep sympathy to the Government and the people of the friendly country of India for the heavy death toll and considerable material loss caused by the devastating earthquake on 30 September. The international realities that form the background of the current session are a direct reflection of the development of extremely contradictory tendencies within the world community. On the one hand, during the year gone by since the beginning of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly we have witnessed a dynamic development of international relations along with increased United Nations activity in the resolution of global economic, social and environmental issues and in the promotion of peace and security. The achievement of agreement on the Middle East problem should undoubtedly be counted as a breakthrough in multilateral diplomacy, but, on the other hand, we must state with regret that no agreement has been reached so far on the cessation of hostilities in the former Yugoslavia, that the tension in Somalia has increased and that hotbeds of conflicts still smoulder in a number of republics of the former Soviet Union. We have made a careful study of the Secretary- General’s report (A/48/1) on the work of the Organization and share its principal conclusion that in order to produce enduring results there must at all costs be a new level of political will and realism. The President of the United States, Mr. Clinton, pointed out in his statement on 27 September that the United Nations simply cannot be engaged in each and every one of the conflicts in the world. This goes without saying. But it is equally self-evident that the United Nations is today, and 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session will remain in the foreseeable future, a body to which humanity - the world’s nations and individuals - will link their aspirations for peace, development and human rights. In these circumstances, in our opinion, a package of concrete measures aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of the United Nations is called for. We believe that, along with a further definition of the functions of the United Nations main organs, the elimination of duplication in their activities and the adequate financing of United Nations peace-keeping operations, it is high time to consider the question of expanding the permanent membership of the Security Council. We are confident that this measure will enable the United Nations to respond more rapidly and objectively to the new, dangerous challenges of the times and eruptions of violence, regardless of where this might happen. The harsh realities of the post-confrontation era have highlighted the urgency of redirecting the efforts of the world community towards eliminating the potential for disputes within a State or between States to escalate into military conflicts. Should we fail to resolve disputes at an early stage, we will simply reap fruits similar to those reaped in the former Yugoslavia, Nagorny-Karabakh and Tajikistan. This reaffirms once again the appropriateness of the idea of preventive diplomacy formulated by Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali in his report 'An Agenda for Peace'. Only by taking a series of preventive measures based on global and regional cooperation between nations can peace be ensured and maintained. This is at the heart of the idea of creating a system of collective security in Asia within the framework of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-building Measures in Asia (CICMA). As is known, this initiative was formulated comprehensively by Mr. Nazarbaev, President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, precisely one year ago, at the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. To promote the realization of the initiative, Kazakhstan hosted two rounds of expert-level meetings within the framework of preparations for CICMA, which took place this year in Almaty and yielded promising results. At present, 25 Asian States are involved in the CICMA process. I take this opportunity to invite other States interested in strengthening confidence-building measures in Asia to join our efforts. I believe that today we should actively broaden our efforts to define the problems related to this initiative. I have in mind particularly the preparations for the conference of Foreign Ministers of Asian States which, in the view of experts, could be convened in 1994. We note with satisfaction that the idea of regional cooperation in Asia has been endorsed by the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and has found a broad response within the United Nations, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the League of Arab States. This positive reaction to our initiative fills us with confidence in its viability and its significance for the cause of peace in Asia. Indeed, the States of the Asian region have an equally strong interest in the prevention and peaceful settlement of conflicts as well as in the prevention of the emergence of new hotbeds of regional and global tension. As an example I would mention the formation of the Defence Coalition Forces of the members of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), which acted as a restraining factor in the Tajik conflict. Joint military units of Russia, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan managed to reduce considerably the scale of military confrontation, saved the lives of thousands of civilians and provided relief for hundreds of thousands of refugees. In this context, the Republic of Kazakhstan, along with the other Commonwealth States, is asking for support for our joint appeal to recognize the Defence Coalition Forces of the CIS as the United Nations peacemaking force in that region. Another important aspect of close cooperation between Asian States is the coordination of their efforts on environmental issues. The severe environmental problems of Kazakhstan are well known. The first among them is the problem of the Aral Sea. The critical situation in the Aral region has frequently been discussed at various international conferences and meetings of Heads of States. As a result, we now have a sizeable package of documents defining short-term and strategic solutions to the problem. We point in particular to the signing of the Agreement on Joint Activities in Preserving the Aral Sea and the Environmental Rehabilitation of the Region and the Statute of the International Fund for Preserving the Aral Sea. However, we are convinced that this environmental tragedy has effects far beyond the confines of the region. Today, only the collective efforts of the world community can bring about a solution to this problem. We therefore support the proposal put forward by the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan, Mr. Karimov, to set up a special United Nations forum, perhaps a United Nations commission on the Aral Sea. Another priority in the foreign policy of our Republic is the strengthening of intergovernmental relations within the CIS. We are confident that at present no member State of the Commonwealth is able effectively to pursue its internal Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 17 and foreign policy in isolation from the policies of the other members of the CIS. In this context, the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Mr. Nazarbaev, has repeatedly proposed concrete measures to consolidate the common economic space and ensure social and political stability on a collective basis. At the recent meeting of the Heads of State of the CIS in Moscow, an economic union of the Commonwealth was set up for the purpose of coordinating the policies of member States in various fields. This serves the interests of all members of the CIS. Kazakhstan will remain active in promoting the integration of the members of the CIS. We strongly believe that all emerging political problems and conflict situations should be resolved in constructive and civilized ways. This idea is the essence of two recent statements by President Nazarbaev on the current critical situation in the Russian Federation. Our State has a diversified foreign policy, and the expansion of cooperation in all fields with all countries is of utmost strategic importance to us. After signing the Lisbon Protocol of 23 May 1992, the Republic of Kazakhstan, along with other States successors to the USSR, was recognized as a party to the START I Treaty and undertook to accede to the non-proliferation Treaty as a non-nuclear State. At present, negotiations are under way with a number of States on cooperation in assisting Kazakhstan to meet its commitments to eliminate strategic offensive weapons. In this context, I share the opinion of my Ukrainian colleague, Mr. Zlenko, about the extreme complexity of this problem. In our opinion, Kazakhstan would need considerable funds for this purpose: approximately $2 billion - not an easy sum to find in our national budget. These funds are needed not only to cover the dismantling of nuclear weapons, but also to eliminate the consequences of nuclear tests at the Semipalatinsk Testing Ground and to solve the Aral sea crisis as well. Referring to the problem of the elimination of the consequences of nuclear tests at the now-closed Semipalatinsk Testing Ground, I should like to draw the Assembly’s attention to the enormous damage to the health of the people of a vast region wrought by 466 nuclear tests in all environments. In varying degrees, almost half a million Kazakh citizens have suffered the deadly effects of nuclear tests. It is quite understandable, therefore, that Kazakhstan wholeheartedly supports a comprehensive and complete ban on nuclear tests. One of the active areas of Kazakhstan’s foreign policy is cooperation with the CSCE and the North Atlantic Cooperation Council. The possibilities of Kazakhstan’s more regular and active participation in CSCE activities were discussed in particular with the CSCE Chairman, Margaretha af Ugglas, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Sweden, during a visit of the CSCE delegation to Almaty last June. Broadly speaking, our foreign policy can now be described as dynamic and active. Kazakhstan’s membership of the United Nations has allowed it to become actively involved in international life, a fact reflected in our membership now of 20 international organizations, including the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and others. The Republic’s membership in the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), the Economic Commission for Europe (ECE) and other international organizations is under consideration. Kazakhstan’s internal reforms are being carried out in accordance with the international treaties to which it has acceded. In spite of major economic problems, which are common in varying degrees to the States of the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, a strong legal basis for economic reforms has been laid down in our Republic. The laws passed by the Kazakhstan Parliament are designed to develop medium- and small-scale business, attract and protect foreign investments and liberalize foreign trade. Providing a legal basis for foreign economic activity envisages a gradual decrease of export and import duties and the removal of free trade barriers which had to be imposed during the transition period because of the particular features of that time. Of course, such transformations will take more than one or two years, but Kazakhstan intends to carry them out as soon as possible. Kazakhstan has now begun to attract international business. Following deals with Chevron and other major foreign companies, which have demonstrated to the world business community that Kazakhstan is anxious to attract foreign investment on a mutually beneficial basis and ensure a favourable environment for it, the flow of foreign investment into the Republic’s economy has been growing steadily, and this is raising our hopes for the ultimate success of our reforms. 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session We understand clearly that now, at a time when our Republic is reaching out to the world community and is declaring its willingness to join it as an equal and respected member, it is of particular importance for us to affirm our compliance with internationally recognized standards of human rights. The Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan adopted in January 1993 recognizes, in accordance with international standards, the primacy of rights and freedoms of the individual and places the primacy of the interests of the individual above the interests of the State and society, proclaims the ideas of civil peace and ethnic accord, and the equality of all nations and ethnic groups living in the Republic. I wish to draw attention to the fact that Kazakhstan is the only one of the newly formed States of the former USSR where national radio and TV programmes are broadcast in six different languages, newspapers and magazines are published in seven languages and instruction in schools is given in 18 languages. Kazakhstan’s commitment to equal rights for all ethnic groups in economic and social development was clearly stated at the World Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna last June. The documents adopted at that Conference will undoubtedly serve as an important guarantee of the observance of human rights both at the international and at the national levels. However, the practical realization of human rights and freedoms is a long and gradual process which depends on many factors such as the level of economic and political development of the society, the ideological priorities, the national mentality, and so on. It is therefore unjustifiable for some people to assume the responsibility for setting human rights standards and to use their own interpretation of the concept as an instrument of pressure on certain countries in questions related to bilateral or multilateral relations. In this context, Kazakhstan, while supporting efforts to affirm the universal nature of human rights, believes that it is necessary to take into account the specific national conditions of each member of the world community. The problem of human rights is not only pressing but also delicate, and hence it requires an extremely careful and balanced approach. It is this understanding which drives the internal ethnic policy of our country, a State the very stability of which depends upon the peaceful and mutually respectful coexistence of ethnic groups. The forty-eighth session of the General Assembly is the second one in which Kazakhstan has participated as a full Member of the United Nations. Despite such recent membership in the Organization, Kazakhstan has actively participated in the promotion of international relations, contributed to the strengthening of processes of integration, and has offered its own ideas on how to improve the United Nations. We reaffirm our readiness to make an active contribution to the work of the Organization and to support all endeavours aimed at enhancing international cooperation and achieving peace and international accord. At the same time I should like particularly to point out that the United Nations today is an international forum of 184 Member States, including those which, like Kazakhstan, only recently gained their independence. Considerable expansion of the membership over the past few years has, in our view, broadened the range and diversity of opinion within the Organization as well as pluralism in approaches to the analysis of international political events. To achieve consensus today we need a collective search for new principles of coexistence of States in the United Nations, as well as the improvement Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 19 and adaptation of the Organization to the rapidly changing realities of modern life. It is for this reason that we call upon all States Members of the United Nations to consider our proposal to convene a special session of the General Assembly devoted to the problems of strengthening international peace and security, expanding the scope and potential of preventive diplomacy, promoting human rights, and enhancing the role of the United Nations in an interdependent and integrated world. We believe that on the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations it would be extremely useful to discuss new goals and the challenges facing the Organization. Mr. President, your unanimous election as President augurs well for the forty- eighth session of the General Assembly. I extend my heartiest congratulations to you and best wishes for success. Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General, has given a new vision and a new impetus to the United Nations at a crucial time in its history. We wish him well in his efforts. My Government is deeply touched by the sympathy and compassion expressed by the leaders of several delegations on the devastating earthquake in India on 30 September 1993, and, with your permission, Mr. President, I shall have to go back to India immediately. The United Nations will soon be 50 years old. It has had many achievements to its credit: decolonization; efforts to alleviate poverty; peace-keeping; disarmament; devising an accepted code of international law; respect for human rights and concern for the environment. I would like to reiterate India’s faith in and consistent support for the United Nations and its efforts to establish peace and the well-being of peoples. We take note that the United Nations is trying to evolve so as to better serve the principles and purposes of the Charter. We support the Secretary-General’s efforts to make what he has called a transition from the old to the new United Nations, which would be particularly useful and fruitful for the less developed and less fortunate States. The euphoria generated by the end of the cold war has in the past two years given way to concerns about the difficulties of achieving a new global equilibrium and stability. Essentially, we can see these difficulties arising from the contradictory pulls and pressures exerted by the forces of positive integration and harmony on the one hand and fragmentation and discord on the other. The end of the divisions of the cold war and the efforts to halt and reverse the arms race have generated some of the integrative forces. Some forces of integration have also been at work in the global economy, which has been characterized by the globalization and interdependence of countries’ factors of production and of issues of trade, money, finance, technology, environment, population and development. The desire of the developing countries to participate more actively in the growth of the world economy and the building-up of free-market, liberalized economies for themselves adds another positive dimension. Issues of common concern and global survival - economic development and regeneration, environmental sustainability, demographic management, technological dynamism and health for all - have provided a sense of common destiny. The communications revolution has resulted in greater cultural intermingling and openness around the world. These forces of integration are, unfortunately, opposed by those of fragmentation. Represented by sectarian and subnational aggression, racism, religious fundamentalism, bigotry, terrorism, drug trafficking and arms smuggling, they pose a threat to peace, global security, democracy, human rights and economic and social development. We are also witnessing strife, conflicts and cruel, unceasing and irrational civil wars in many parts of the world. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Somalia and Afghanistan cause us anxiety and concern. The proliferation of such local conflicts and the ever-increasing flow of refugees across national frontiers re- affirm the truism that peace, like freedom, is indivisible and that the disruption of peace anywhere is a danger to peace everywhere. These divisive forces have caused not only political instability but also economic collapse in several instances. Conversely, economic sluggishness and lack of development in several cases have led to political upheavals. Inward- looking, exclusivist and narrowly self-centred global economic policy-making has been in evidence at a time when the global economy is overshadowed by recession and lack of dynamism. Macroeconomic coordination is at its weakest. Protectionist tendencies are strong. The potential of developing countries to act as vigorous engines of growth for revitalizing the world economy stands largely ignored. In developing countries, absolute and deepening poverty, hunger and malnutrition, disease, illiteracy and the lack of shelter and sanitation for a large portion of the population have caused political and social tensions. The structural imbalances and flaws of the post-Second-World-War international economic order persist and prevent the maximization of the benefits of interdependence and globalization. Against this backdrop, the task of the United Nations should be to construct a new global equilibrium by fostering positive integrative forces and discouraging, if not counteracting, the forces of fragmentation and discord. For this, the new United Nations will have to reiterate the fundamental and immutable principles on which it was built: respect for the national sovereignty, territorial integrity and sovereign equality of nation States. I am glad that the 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Secretary-General stated in his report to the forty-eighth session: 'National sovereignty is the art of rendering unequal power equal. Without State sovereignty, the very instrument of international cooperation might be destroyed and international organization might itself become impossible.' (A/48/1, para. 16) The United Nations will have to set an example for the conduct of relations amongst nation States on the basis of respect for the rule of law, democracy and pluralism. Any international framework, whether it be associated with peace or development, must be transparent and must deal with issues of global concerns on a non-selective and non-- discriminatory basis. In the final analysis, the institutions, concepts and agencies that represent the new world order will be judged by their ability to harness and channel the beneficial and creative forces of integration for the benefit of peace and development for all and by the ability of the United Nations to ensure that the interests of its weaker Member States are fully reflected therein. In these still perilous times, they would have to promote development cooperation and effectively arrest the plunge into insecurity, strife and chaos, particularly when these threaten the very foundation of Member States, where ultimately the United Nations is rooted. There have been references in this Assembly to all these conflicts, big or small, local or with international dimensions, describing them in the generic terms of ethnic, religious and civil wars. The plurality and complexity of our post-cold-war world do not permit such generic labelling. Nor are these conflicts amenable to generic and instant remedies. A number of instances of strife or aberrations are part of the historical legacies inherited by Member States. Each is posited in a different socio-economic and cultural matrix of causation; each is caught up in a different cycle of circumstance and violence. The imposition of peace through unilateral external intervention will only perpetuate situations embodying the Orwellian logic of 'peace is war' that we see in many parts of the world today. Wisdom lies in overcoming conflict situations with a positive vision animated by peace and amity and in creating the necessary confidence and will for peace among countries and peoples. It is in this spirit that India is ready to initiate a dialogue with Pakistan to build mutual confidence and to promote a climate of stability in our region. I can only hope that Pakistan will respond to this, and have a dialogue with us, instead of trying to go around the world accentuating differences that will be difficult to resolve later. We welcome the recently concluded peace accord between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), and earnestly hope that this will be a true harbinger of further positive developments aimed at establishing lasting peace and prosperity in West Asia. We also welcome the announcement by Mr. Nelson Mandela that irreversible progress towards a non-racial, democratic South Africa has been made. In response to his suggestion, India, which had imposed trade sanctions against South Africa as early as 1946, has initiated action to lift those sanctions and to normalize relations with South Africa. We trust that the recognition by the Security Council of the international boundary between Iraq and Kuwait will contribute to the stabilization of the situation in the Gulf region. We hope that the faithful implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions will lead to the alleviation of the present difficulties of the peoples of the region. In Somalia, a whole population has gone through a protracted civil war and famine with hardly any governmental machinery to tackle the situation. This made it imperative for the United Nations to act. As an unprecedented humanitarian mission, the multilateral action in Somalia enjoyed the support of the entire world, including the factional Somali leaders themselves. India, for its part, has contributed one of the largest contingents to this mission. Now that the situation has improved and starvation has been averted, the United Nations operation faces new problems. It is necessary for the United Nations to reassure all sectors of the people of Somalia about its role in the country, intensify the process of political reconciliation and adhere strictly to the original objectives of the mission. The phenomenal increase in peace-keeping operations in the post-cold-war period and their inclusion as an element of the new agenda for peace is at once a matter of comfort and concern. It is a matter of comfort because the United Nations at long last has started playing its Charter role in the area of peace and security. In the altered international political environment, we would like the United Nations to realize its full potential. At the same time, the involvement of the United Nations on an unprecedented scale with peace- keeping operations causes us concern because operationally the United Nations is not fully prepared and equipped to discharge this role effectively. And, legally and conceptually, the limits, procedures and rules of the involvement of the United Nations are not clearly defined. Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 13 For peace-keeping operations to be successful, it is necessary to follow certain guidelines and criteria. All avenues of pacific settlement of disputes, as laid down in Chapter VI of the Charter, should be fully explored and exhausted before resorting to peace-keeping operations under Chapter VII. Decisions on such operations should be taken in a democratic and broad-based manner, and after thorough consideration of all aspects. To command universal endorsement and maintain their non-partisan character, United Nations peace-keeping operations must be based on the consent of all the States parties to a dispute. They should be undertaken with a specific mandate and a clear time-frame. Greater efficiency should be achieved in both planning and execution of peace-keeping operations. The Foreign Minister of the Russian Federation, in his address to the General Assembly a few days ago, put forward a few proposals in this respect which merit consideration by the General Assembly. The concept of invoking humanitarian relief as a basis for peace-keeping operations may have to be approached with a great deal of caution and circumspection. Any new United Nations operation for providing humanitarian relief must be completely non-partisan - in fact and in the perception of the parties involved. That consideration must also guide any discussion or decision on preventive deployment. The United Nations must not allow itself to be burdened indefinitely with obsolete and ineffective peace-keeping operations. Every possible measure should be taken to ensure the safety of peace-keeping personnel. Another aspect of the agenda for peace which we would like to underline is the particular importance we attach to Article 50, which enjoins the Security Council to find solutions to the special economic problems faced by third States on account of the implementation of sanctions imposed by the Security Council. We call for an automatic mechanism that would put remedial action in place simultaneously with the imposition of sanctions. An integral element of any agenda for peace in our time is the achievement of disarmament, particularly nuclear disarmament. Having endorsed the Chemical Weapons Convention, the United Nations should move on to consider similar steps in other areas of disarmament. We welcome the unilateral decision of the United States to extend its moratorium on nuclear testing until the end of 1994. The focus of the nuclear-weapon Powers should now be on the early conclusion of a universal, verifiable and comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty leading to the elimination of all nuclear weapons. India’s commitment to non-proliferation is complete and unequivocal. India has an unblemished track record. India’s proposal made in 1988 for an action plan for nuclear disarmament within a specific time-frame is of continuing relevance in our bid to rid the world of the global scourge of nuclear weapons. We believe that a new, just and uniformly applicable regime for non-proliferation which does not discriminate between the nuclear-weapon and the non-nuclear-weapon States should be considered at an early date. Such a treaty should place equal obligations on all States. For a non-proliferation regime to be truly meaningful, it must also address the questions of a convention on the non-use of nuclear weapons, a verifiable freeze on the production of fissionable material, a total ban on nuclear-weapon tests and negotiations on general and complete disarmament. The global spread and reach of nuclear weapons reduce to a travesty the objective of achieving genuine peace and security within a narrow regional framework. It is our hope that the United Nations will take firm action in this direction to achieve this in the sense I have mentioned. One area of concern for developing countries is the question of ad hoc and unilateral export controls and other restrictions being placed on the transfer of dual-use and high technology with the ostensible purpose of curbing proliferation. Non-proliferation concerns must not be made a pretext for denying developing countries access to technologies critical for their development. There is, therefore, need to evolve multilateral, non-discriminatory and transparent arrangements to regulate the transfer of such technologies so that peaceful uses and dissemination of some key technologies are not denied to the developing world. There is perhaps merit in convening a special session on disarmament to examine the whole gamut of disarmament-related issues that arise in the new context of today. The question of a peace dividend arising from disarmament in the form of financial and technical resources for the enhancement of international development cooperation in the context of the United Nations could be one of the issues that special session could address. It is obvious that there can be no global security unless development is ensured, and we therefore attach as much importance to an agenda for development as to the 'Agenda for Peace'. Agenda 21 of the Rio Declaration, outlining the plan and programme for global cooperation in ensuring sustainable development; the outcome of the Final Act of the eighth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD VIII), on the partnership for development between the North and the South; and the 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session forthcoming Conference on Population and Development, as well as the World Summit on Social Development, provide the international community enough opportunity to promote economic and social development and environmental sustainability, particularly in developing countries. The work on an agenda for development should build on all these development-related action programmes and provide a new impetus to development cooperation, both under United Nations auspices and in bilateral and other multilateral contexts. Enhancement of the role, resources and capabilities of the organs and agencies dealing with development in the United Nations system should be stressed. The United Nations should also be enabled to have a more interactive relationship with the Bretton Woods institutions in a spirit of finding considered and innovative solutions to global economic problems and pooling all available resources for that purpose. Comprehensive and constructive dialogue between the North and the South and the strengthening of a global partnership for development are the needs of our times if we are to avoid the replacement of the East-West divide by a North-South one. India has always participated in the ongoing North-South dialogue through the Group of 77 and the Non-Aligned Movement and in keeping with the requirements of a more focused dialogue. India has become part of the new group of 15 developing countries for South-South consultation and cooperation, the G-15. We are acting as host to the fourth summit meeting of that group at New Delhi in December. Representing the developing countries, we have had a promising start through an informal dialogue with the G-7 and we hope to build on those beginnings in a spirit of 'global partnership for global benefit', as was stated by my Prime Minister, Mr. P. V. Narasimha Rao in his message to the G-7 Chairman. Some key issues where there is an ongoing dialogue but which none the less need further consideration and implementation include: participation of developing countries in global macroeconomic coordination and decision-making; reciprocation by the North of the efforts of the South at restructuring and economic liberalization through the pursuit of expansionist policies conducive to long-term growth and opening them up to global competition in goods, services and manpower through reduction and elimination of protectionist barriers; increased capital flows, both official and private, bilateral and multilateral, to developing countries to offset the crippling effects of the debt burden and to accelerate growth and development; and a balanced, successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round, which should ensure substantial enhancement of market access for developing-country exports and of their access to the tool of competitiveness. The profoundly humanistic traditions of the Indian civilization, with its emphasis on tolerance, harmony, non-violence and the inviolability of the individual, have found their modern expression in the setting up of a democratic, secular and egalitarian polity and society in free India. Being the largest practising democracy and effecting a synthesis between a multiplicity of ethnic, religious and linguistic groups and peoples has been no easy task, as some in the West are themselves realizing even in the context of their relatively lesser diversities. The Constitution of free India consolidated this humanistic tradition and is indeed a veritable bill of human rights. A strong and independent judiciary and a totally free press have also been watchdogs of democracy and human rights in India. India’s commitment to the effective protection of human rights has now received another institutional impetus with the establishment of a National Human Rights Commission comprised of a retired Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of India, a retired judge of the Supreme Court of India, a former Chief Justice of the State High Court and other eminent persons as well as the chairmen of the three separate national commissions which already exist to protect the interests of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, women and minorities. The Commission has been mandated to inquire into allegations of violations of human rights and has been invested with wide-ranging powers, including the power to establish special investigation teams to carry out effective investigations. The findings of the Commission are to be published from time to time besides being reflected in its annual report, which will also be laid before Parliament. The law also provides for the establishment of human rights commissions by the State Governments, on the pattern of the national Commission, as also special courts for the speedy trial of cases involving human rights violations. I am confident that members of the Assembly will accept that India has established the most appropriate human rights commission to ensure that there will be full human rights protection in the country. Our commitment to universally acceptable non-discriminatory norms of human rights and their protection and promotion cannot be questioned. It was in that spirit that we participated actively in the World Conference on Human Rights, which recognized the Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 15 importance of this issue. We are however pained that not enough emphasis is put on a major threat and impediment to the realization of human rights, namely, terrorism, especially the kind that is aided and abetted by one State against another. Why is it that a few so-called human rights advocates and Member States of the United Nations choose to focus on the human rights of terrorists - those who indulge in senseless murder, destruction, pillage, the disruption of civilized existence and the undermining of democratic institutions? Why do they virtually turn a blind eye to the violation of the human rights of the victims of such terrorism - innocent civilians or those upholding law and order and the territorial integrity of States? Can they in true conscience allow terrorists and their supporters to usurp the moral high ground on human rights? The United Nations will have to take strong action against terrorists because terrorists engage in all kinds of violence. They try to upset democratically taken decisions in a country by using force and killing people. This must be totally condemned by the United Nations and stopped completely so that people can live in peace and in democracy and express their views in accordance with the constitution of their country. In sum, we believe that international cooperation in the protection of human rights can succeed only if it is within the framework of respect for the sovereignty and integrity of States and of a vigorous global programme for anti-terrorist action. We would, however, like to point out that any unilateral use of human rights as an instrument of political pressure or intervention, or as an obstacle to trade or a condition for development cooperation and aid, in fact serves the opposite purpose and impedes the full realization of the human rights of people of affected countries. The enhanced role of the United Nations in international affairs calls for the restructuring and redefining of the functions of its principal organs. The responsibilities of the Security Council have grown dramatically in the past few years, requiring a greater degree of participation by the overall membership of the United Nations in the Council’s decision-making process. We must recognize that the membership of the United Nations has grown enormously over the years. A more balanced and expanded representation for Member States in the Council is therefore inevitable. Unity of purpose among its members rather than size determines the efficiency of any organization. The expansion should not be done selectively or in a piecemeal manner. The principles or criteria of expansion of the permanent and non-permanent membership should be agreed upon by consensus. For the selection of additional States in an expanded Council, the population - which represents the principle of democracy and an element of power - the size of the economy and the future potential of the countries concerned should be taken into account, along with equitable geographical distribution and the contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security. There is virtual unanimity among those who have responded to the Secretary-General that an expansion of the Council is imperative. Interesting suggestions have been put forward by several countries. The logical next step would be to start a process of consultations to arrive at a suitable and fair formula that commands universal support. The permanent members should be responsive to the aspirations of developing countries represented in the General Assembly on the basis of equality. It is therefore essential also to revive the role of the General Assembly, as was originally envisaged in the Charter. We stand on a decisive threshold incomparable to any in history, a moment in time when we must bring to bear a larger vision and foster the forces of positive integration, democracy and cooperation at national and international levels. My Prime Minister has, in characterizing the 1990s as watershed years in global affairs in the realm of political, economic and environmental challenges and changes, conveyed an unequivocal message: 'We cannot go wrong if we make coexistence and peace our watchword, and common universal good our objective'. It is my Government’s belief that this quest for the common good, jointly undertaken, will be central to the success of our endeavour and for the achievement of the Charter’s objective of harmonizing the actions of nations in the attainment of these common ends. At the outset, I wish to congratulate Ambassador Insanally on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly. The fact that he was selected to guide our deliberations signifies the confidence that Member States have in his well-known professional qualities. I am sure that, under his guidance, the present session of the Assembly will tackle the issues on its agenda with courage and realism. I would also like to place on record our appreciation for the competence and wisdom of his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, and for his outstanding performance in steering the work of the General Assembly during an eventful year. My delegation takes joyful pride in welcoming Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, Macedonia, Monaco and the Slovak Republic to the family of nations. We believe that their admission represents yet another milestone in further consolidating the universality of this Organization. There is no doubt that our community will be enriched and strengthened by their contribution to the realization of the ideals of the United Nations. The excitement and hopefulness of 1989 already seem to be part of a distant past. We both welcomed and were unprepared for the events that marked the dramatic end of the cold war. They generated a tidal wave of optimism about the future of international relations. Fervent talk about a rapidly changing world was the order of the day when we entered the present decade. Little was done, however, to determine and shape the dynamics and scope of the change. It was more or less taken for granted that this change would turn out to be for the better. That did not prove to be the case. Accordingly, the creation of a new, desirable international system continues to top the political agenda as the most challenging task of our times. The past 12 months have demonstrated yet again that the new world in the making might at times be as dangerous as the old, if not worse in certain respects. Nevertheless, we should resist the impulse to indulge in a dark pessimism for which there can be no legitimate cause. The crucial phase of history we are going through calls for reflection and positive action, not a defeatist mood. The international community should not stand by in desperation and watch conditions deteriorate. It must display the will to redirect the course of history towards our expectations. There definitely exists a political space for constructive initiatives and a basis for cooperative action to that end. It is the United Nations which defines and guards that political space. Indeed, the United Nations is the foremost symbol of modern internationalism. In these turbulent post- cold-war years, hardly a day passes without the Organization Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 35 being called upon to take the lead on some important task. These tasks include missions for preserving or restoring peace and security, the upholding of the rule of law, and missions to ensure the survival of mankind, to help save the environment, to combat social scourges and to rescue the so- called failing societies. Since the cold war drew to a close and the conflicts of the transition era rose to the fore, United Nations peace-keeping operations have undergone considerable expansion in terms of their functions, size, geographical area and degree of complexity. This process has occurred in tandem with the rapid evolution of the international landscape. The same background conditions have prompted the emergence of preventive diplomacy, peace- enforcement and peace-building as new concepts awaiting urgent translation into practical and mutually supportive instruments at the disposal of the international community. Turkey’s response to this urgency is reflected in our contribution to peace-keeping operations As highlighted in the Secretary-General’s report entitled 'An Agenda for Peace' (A/47/277), effectively managing of the crises currently confronting us and responding adequately to the challenges ahead call for the elaboration of a shared vision for the future of our Organization. In this connection, the focus of priority attention should be the Security Council. Today, the prestige and credibility of the United Nations depend more than ever on the effectiveness of that principal body. There is a widespread call for the Security Council to become more responsive to the needs of the current international scene. This can be made possible only by making the Council more representative of the new geopolitical realities. In other words, the post-cold-war environment requires a fresh approach towards the Council’s renovation and restructuring. Hence, the discussion on the twin themes of equitable representation and membership enlargement is very timely. Turkey firmly believes that enlarging the Security Council membership would enhance its effectiveness. Enlargement should not be conceived of only as an increase in the number of members, but should also envisage the creation of a new category of seats to be held by States that could be qualified as semi-permanent members. Semi-permanent membership in the Council could rotate among a specific number of States designated according to certain objective criteria: population; geopolitical posture; economic potential; record of contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security; and equitable geographical distribution. Since Turkey fully meets these criteria, it considers itself qualified as a candidate for that new category of membership. A Security Council more responsive, representative, transparent and accountable is a requirement inherent in the spirit of Article 24 of the Charter. Hence, the democratization of its structure would ensure more active participation in the Council’s work. The moral ground for the full implementation of the Council’s resolutions would thereby be strengthened. Few, if any, would contest the fact that it was the tragedy of Bosnia and Herzegovina that dispelled the euphoria prevalent during the earlier period of the post- cold-war era. Genocide and 'ethnic cleansing' were the hallmarks of the tragedy. They were conducted with impunity. We could neither halt, nor roll back the Serbian aggression. Nor could we alleviate, in earnest the suffering of the survivors. The example of a civic State, embracing all its citizens as equals, irrespective of their ethnic origin or religion, was given to us in Bosnia where a mature multicultural civilization had evolved over many centuries. No lament over its destruction at the hands of ethnic chauvinism could be exaggerated. Moreover, denying the Bosnians the means for their legitimate self-defence amounts to a failure in due support for democracy against tyranny. A most serious blow has been dealt to the moral essence of international law and to the contemporary principles of conduct among nations. Any document endorsing the consequences of expansionism, genocide and 'ethnic cleansing' cannot usher in real peace. No peace throughout history has been lasting when based on rewarding injustice, aggression and racism. We cannot relieve our conscience by fabricating realpolitik excuses for our inaction and silence. Appeasement is no policy, but partnership in wrongdoing. The stakes in Bosnia are much higher than those related to the survival of the Bosnian State and its people. They include the validity of our hope to do away with ethnic and religious warfare in the future. The betrayal of Bosnia as a multicultural, multi-ethnic State, invalidates this hope - and with it the fundamental principles of our Organization. If we allow dictatorship and adventurism to get away with the crimes they have committed in Bosnia, the post-cold-war disorder may worsen. Continued denial of the right of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina to defend itself aggravates the responsibility of the international community for what is happening there. Should Bosnia and Herzegovina disintegrate, not only the Balkans and Europe, 36 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session but the whole world, will eventually suffer the bitter after-effects. Turkey will continue to pursue actively the course of justice and legitimacy to support the brave people of Bosnia and Herzegovina in their struggle for survival and democracy. The sinister success of Serbian expansionism in Bosnia has emboldened aggressors elsewhere. A tragedy of similar proportions is occurring in the Caucasus, where Armenians have occupied a fifth of Azerbaijani territory. Peace and stability in a sensitive region neighbouring Turkey has been seriously undermined. Security Council resolutions 822 (1993) and 853 (1993), calling for the immediate, unconditional and complete withdrawal of the occupation forces, are being ignored. It should be borne in mind that short-term military opportunism is not compatible with long-term interests. Moreover, it is fraught with unpredictable dangers. Neither in the Balkans nor in the Caucasus - nor, for that matter, anywhere else - will Turkey ever accept the acquisition of territory by force. Unless such gross violations of international law are prevented and the principles of the United Nations Charter vigorously upheld, the present turmoil and confusion cannot be replaced by a just and peaceful order. It is with these thoughts in mind that Turkey strongly endorses the observations made by the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, in his statement on 30 August last, at the sixty-sixth session of the Institute of International Law in Milan. There he appropriately referred to ultra- nationalism and micro-nationalism as two of the greatest dangers menacing today’s international society. He underlined that, by strengthening the nation State as the main subject of international law, multilateralism preserves the world community from these two great perils. His admonition that 'Ultra-nationalism today may still be a temptation, at times, for a number of major Powers nostalgic for the period of hegemony' is of particular relevance at this juncture of post-cold-war developments. Indeed, the darkening shadows of ultra-nationalism and micro-nationalism, ethnic chauvinism and neo-racism have loomed like phantoms behind the scenes in the crises that have erupted during the last two years. The international community has to cure itself of these diseases. We should not let irredentist, hegemonic tendencies plague our future. The newly emerging geopolitical pluralism of Eurasia has to be kept alive with a moral commitment to the quest for global democratic interdependence. Most of the threats to international peace in our time are bred in climates of intolerance. We have to develop a new mind-set for the recognition and acknowledgment of other peoples’ right to be different. We have to enlarge our capacity for give and take. Tolerance is the foundation of civil society. To build a just and peaceful world order, such societies must proliferate. To that end, we need to promote a culture of tolerance all over the world. In this spirit, and as a follow-up to resolution 47/124, Turkey will submit during the current session a draft resolution proposing the proclamation of 1995 as the United Nations Year for Tolerance. Adoption of that draft resolution would help to accelerate the pace of the efforts made in the struggle against all forms of fanaticism, fundamentalism, discrimination and persecution. Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 37 Tolerance and social development are correlated concepts. Accordingly, my Government attaches great importance to concerted action at the global level aimed at solving social problems and easing the tensions they cause. Hence, we are amply satisfied that the Chilean initiative for the convening in March 1995 of a World Summit for Social Development has borne fruit. Turkey will prepare for this Summit in earnest, and looks forward to contributing to its success. In this connection, Turkey welcomes the Secretary- General’s latest report on the work of the organization, in which he courageously addresses the gravity of the situation stemming from the difficulty in raising funds for development aid experienced since the end of the cold war. He accurately observes that the poorer countries no longer hold the same interest for the rich as they did in the previous decades of ideological competition. My Government believes that activities for development are just as important as peace-keeping operations. Indeed, it is those activities, including their humanitarian assistance dimension, which provide the foundations for global peace and security. Turkey, stretching its budgetary means to the utmost, continues to be increasingly active as a donor and contributor in the fields of economic and humanitarian support and solidarity. Since the beginning of 1992 we have implemented an economic assistance package amounting to $2,893 million. The package includes technical assistance, project financing, training grants and soft loans, made available to 32 countries in four continents. We are firmly committed to continuing our efforts in this domain. To increase efficiency in terms of coordination, we have set up the Turkish International Cooperation Agency. Over the same period 28 countries in three continents, stricken by natural and/or man-made disasters, have received humanitarian aid worth a total of $213 million from Turkey, in cash or in kind, as well as various forms of relief and accommodation for refugees. Offering as they do a gloomy general picture, the past 12 months are nevertheless not totally bereft of reasons for optimism, which include: the processes culminating in the restoration of democracy in Haiti and Cambodia; the positive developments leading towards the building of a democratic, united, free and non-racial South Africa; and the peaceful evolution of Eritrea to independence. A new diplomacy for democracy seems to be making headway. All of us must bring our full energies to bear on this phenomenon so that it may gain momentum. That momentum, in its turn, will give impetus to the consolidation of peace, because democracies seldom fight each other. The only way to advance towards democracy is progressive and sustained democratization. The distance covered in this process is measured by the degree of respect for human rights and the rule of law. The convening of the World Conference on Human Rights earlier this year enabled the international community to identify clearly the indispensable common denominators needed in the building of pluralistic civil societies. The Conference re-emphasized the importance of the global task of promoting and protecting all human rights and fundamental freedoms, and confirmed the commitment of the international community to securing the full and universal enjoyment of those rights through increased and sustained international cooperation and solidarity. The Vienna Declaration includes a comprehensive definition of terrorism as any activity aiming at the destruction of human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy, threatening the territorial integrity of States and destabilizing legitimately constituted Governments. We strongly endorse the call by the Conference to continue taking the necessary steps to prevent and combat terrorism. The historic breakthrough achieved in the Middle East peace process holds the promise of concord and cooperation not only between the Palestinians, Israel and their Arab neighbours, but on a much wider regional scale. Its positive ripple effects may set in motion multi-dimensional dynamics that could transform an entire area, stretching from the Atlantic to the Gulf and from the eastern Mediterranean to the Indian Ocean, into one of harmony, dialogue and co-prosperity. As a country that neighbours the Middle East, has a record of constructive involvement in the region’s affairs and good traditional ties with all the parties to this dispute, Turkey hails with the utmost satisfaction this momentous shift from enmity towards reconciliation. The momentum so gained should be fully utilized. Irreversibility of the process is not enough; the process must advance at an accelerated pace towards the ultimate objectives defined in Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). The wise, far-sighted and courageous architects who designed this blueprint for rebuilding amity and peace in the Middle East may, as ever, rest assured of Turkey’s firm 38 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session support for and contribution to their mission. We are committed to assisting their endeavours in every way. Three years after the outbreak of the Gulf crisis the people of Iraq are still subjected to hardship. This regrettable situation results from the Baghdad Government’s reluctance to comply fully with the requirements of the Security Council resolutions relating to the Gulf War settlement. Compliance would tangibly demonstrate Iraq’s interest in resuming its place in the international community. However, we cannot remain indifferent to the suffering of the people of Iraq. My Government firmly believes that the international community must urgently consider imaginative ways to break this vicious circle. Turkey has been forthcoming in providing Iraq with humanitarian assistance since 1991. By the same token, we have decided to launch a new humanitarian assistance programme worth $13.5 million aimed at the entire needy population of northern Iraq. Our approach is without prejudice to Iraq’s sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity. Along with the Iraqi people, a number of countries, particularly Iraq’s neighbours, are also exposed to the adverse effects of the continued economic sanctions. The international community should also devise a set of measures aimed at redressing their mounting losses. My Government is concerned over the worsening situation in Jammu and Kashmir. We wish to see the dispute between Pakistan and India over the Kashmir issue resolved through the resumption of sustained dialogue. To that end, Turkey will continue to support Pakistan’s endeavours in pursuit of a negotiated settlement of this long-standing problem. As to Cyprus, it is certainly not my intention to indulge in a consideration of the past. I am quite aware that this is not the time, not would it be profitable, to enter into recriminations over history. What is important is to understand the issue correctly while acknowledging the facts underlying the present problems and the profound mistrust between the two communities. We must take careful account of those problems and the present difficulties, but we must build for the future. Today the Cyprus question has reached a stage where the common desire and purpose of the international community is to promote an early and comprehensive solution. To that end, the Secretary-General continues his mission of good offices. As ever, Turkey supports the Secretary-General’s efforts aimed at bringing about a freely negotiated, just and viable settlement. No doubt the realization of that objective requires a display of goodwill, understanding and patience by both negotiating partners in the island. Moreover, it also calls for a carefully balanced and determined approach in order to heal the profound mistrust driving the parties apart. It is with such considerations that Turkey has endorsed the concept of confidence-building measures, the scope and contents of which must be acceptable to both communities. Whatever the reasons that may still divide the two sides, the negotiating process must continue. It is high time for all concerned to display realism and act with vision in search of a negotiated, durable solution. At present a campaign is under way for early general elections in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. We earnestly hope that once the elections are over the Turkish Cypriot side will again be able to continue to play its constructive role in the negotiating process. Turkey lies at the very epicentre of several regions making up the most turbulent part of the Northern hemisphere. We are actively engaged in the post-cold-war search for new approaches to build peace through multilateral action. Our objective is to reinforce the international security system. Only the United Nations can provide legitimacy to regional arrangements and institutions should the latter decide to act in the fields of militarily backed preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping and peace enforcement. All three of those categories of action are in demand on Turkey’s periphery. My Government deploys all of its available assets to help defuse and resolve these crises. We strive to create and consolidate interlinked areas of solidarity and processes of cooperation. In that effort we proceed from two basic tenets. First, we believe that the evolution of the international environment towards a better future is not only desirable but, in certain conditions, also possible. Secondly, we are of the opinion that such a future may materialize only through the reinforcement of respect for the rule of law along with the universal observance and implementation of the principles of democracy and tolerance. The United Nations was created to preserve peace. However, it cannot be expected to help resolve the collective security problems of our times unless its Member States are willing and prepared to assume their responsibilities as Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 39 upholders and enforcers of the United Nations Charter and the contemporary norms of international behaviour. With the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Organization to be celebrated in two years’ time, all of us here must admit that the main objective defined in the Charter, namely, 'to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war,' has not yet been achieved. In the strengthening of peace and security our immediate task is fully to mobilize the potential of the United Nations for resolving regional and local conflicts, which have proliferated since the end of the cold war. For the future well-being of all nations, it is high time to act with the vision and forbearance that peace requires. Turkey stands committed to continue making its own contribution to attaining that objective. First of all, please convey to His Excellency, Ambassador Insanally, my congratulations on his election to the presidency of the forty- eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly. This session of the General Assembly is being held at a point in time in which the United Nations is being asked to play a constructive role in many fields. The onerous task of helping to respond to this challenge rests on his capable shoulders. I should like to wish him every success in his task and I pledge the full support of the delegation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The world is balancing between great hope and immense suffering. Walls have tumbled not only in Europe. In the Middle East two courageous leaders, Prime Minister Rabin and Chairman Arafat, have set out on the road to reconciliation between their people. In South Africa Mr. Mandela and President De Klerk showed similar courage in breaking with the past and ushering in a new democratic South Africa. At the same time, we see violence of many kinds raking the face of the Earth. From Angola to Bosnia villages are being destroyed and innocent people are slaughtered in cold blood. The future of Russia as well is crucial to our hopes. A democratic Russia at peace with itself and its neighbours is a major element of international stability. In Russia, too, we see a courageous statesman trying to break with the past: President Boris Yeltsin. I join many others in expressing my full support for his efforts to consolidate democracy in Russia. The end of the cold war created a historic opportunity to shape a more just and peaceful world. History will judge us severely if we let this opportunity slip through our hands. Strengthening international peace and security involves a broad range of efforts. It is now widely recognized that 'security' cannot be viewed in military or political-military terms alone. A broader definition is called for. Indeed, last year’s summit meeting of the Security Council emphasized that non-military sources of instability in the economic, social, humanitarian and ecological fields can be threats to peace and security as well. The traditional distinction between conflicts between States and conflicts within States is also becoming blurred. Bloodshed within a State tends, sooner or later, to spill across national borders. This, of course, raises the issue of sovereignty. How do we define sovereignty at a time of increasing interdependence and increasing mutual vulnerability? Sovereignty is certainly an important principle of international law. But this principle can never have been intended to shield from the outside world dictators who massacre their own people. Nor can it be intended to allow the perpetuation of large-scale suffering and death in a State that has collapsed into anarchy. At times the international community can indeed have a moral duty to intervene. And at times it can be necessary for the United Nations to take over the de facto exercise of sovereignty in such a shattered State to allow it to be rebuilt. We must hope that this will succeed in Somalia. We can take heart from current developments in Cambodia, which prove that such ambitious ventures can succeed. A number of recent resolutions of the Security Council have broken new ground by extending international responsibility to encompass the plight of individual countries such as Somalia and Bosnia. Thus the definition of what constitutes a threat to international peace and security has gradually been widened. In his recent speech in Quebec, Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali discussed the issue of 'conflict situations within nations'. He said: 'It is these new conflicts which are most threatening to international peace today and which are most damaging to the rights of individuals'. On that occasion the Secretary-General called for 'a new diplomacy for democracy and human rights'. I believe 22 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session that this idea is a valuable addition to our 'Agenda for Peace'. Let me mention here the United Nations Conference on Human Rights, which opened up new possibilities for improving the protection of human rights. After a difficult start, the outcome of the Conference was certainly gratifying. The Final Document contains important recommendations for further steps, which should now be implemented. Thus, the Kingdom of the Netherlands would like to underscore the urgent appeal of the Conference to the Secretary-General and the General Assembly to increase drastically the funding of the United Nations Centre for Human Rights. It is of crucial importance that in the course of this session of the General Assembly the post of high commissioner for human rights be created, and the broad outline of the mandate established. This session will also provide us with an opportunity to tackle one of the most heinous categories of human rights violations - that of grave war crimes - through the establishment of the International War Crimes Tribunal. The Kingdom of the Netherlands, with its rich tradition in the field of international law, is proud to have been asked to host the Tribunal in The Hague. The increasing responsibilities that the United Nations is called upon to shoulder emphasize the twin requirements of legitimacy and effectiveness. This brings us to the heart of the debate on enlargement of the Security Council. Clearly, we must be careful not to jeopardize the decision-making ability of the Security Council by making it unwieldy. However, I would favor extension of the Council by the inclusion of a few major countries, provided that they were willing and able to carry the share of collective responsibility that went with their membership. The 'Agenda for Peace' invites us to take a broader view of the task of maintaining peace and security. It rightly stresses the need for early warning and early action with regard to a crisis; or - even better - preventive action. Developments in the former Yugoslavia and in other trouble spots of the world have once again confirmed that the longer a crisis is allowed to fester, the more difficult it is to bring it under control, and the higher the cost of such action. I believe that, in this light, we should try to rethink the interrelationship of the various instruments of crisis management. Diplomatic efforts, economic sanctions and military pressure should not necessarily be viewed as sequential but, rather, as an integrated set of instruments. Peacemaking, peace-keeping and post-conflict peace-building require the full range of United Nations instruments, including those of the humanitarian and socio-economic sectors. The enormous increase in the number and scope of United Nations peace-keeping operations confronts us all with a daunting task. Moreover, in many cases the environment in which these operations take place has changed: whereas, previously, peace-keeping operations tended to be conducted in a benign environment, where all parties benefited from the implementation of a limited mandate, now peace-keepers often operate in a hostile climate, where one or more parties frown upon the United Nations presence and the Organization’s mandate. This means that many operations these days are fraught literally with physical danger for United Nations personnel - civilian as well as military - and that privileges and immunities are often violated. No longer does the blue flag automatically command respect, and this directly affects the credibility of the United Nations. Consequently, mandates now tend to be stronger than before, and often they are explicitly based upon Chapter VII of the Charter. The changing character of peace-keeping operations requires personnel with different qualifications. Well-trained soldiers used to be able to do the job; today we require also specialized units in the field of logistics, staff officers with experience in multinational operations, mine-clearing experts, and so on. On the civilian side, police officers, electoral experts, administrators and human-rights specialists are indispensable for integrated operations. Increasing recourse to the United Nations, particularly when it comes to initiating peace operations, is pushing the United Nations to the limits of its organizational and financial resources. This means that in the future the United Nations will have to rely more on regional organizations and structures to carry out peace operations and other missions. The Charter makes provision for this, and the Secretary-General has advanced a similar proposal in his 'Agenda for Peace'. On one hand, this will relieve the United Nations of some of its commitments; on the other, it will enable regional organizations or structures with greater first-hand knowledge of the conflicts in their parts of the world to contribute more effectively to resolution of the underlying problems. There are no standard formulas which dictate how these interlocking institutions should interact, and each case will have to be looked at individually to determine which form of cooperation is most suitable. Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 23 The Kingdom of the Netherlands has consistently endeavoured to make a high-grade contribution to effective peace operations, to which we feel committed as a Member of the United Nations. The present reorganization of the Netherlands armed forces is specifically geared to enabling our country to participate even more broadly, speedily and effectively in future peace-keeping operations. The Netherlands believes that adequate preparation and efficient supervision are crucial to the success of peace operations and has accordingly made a number of military officials available to the United Nations. As peace operations increase in number and scope, so does the need for support from the Secretariat. The Secretariat should be able to expand - and to contract - in proportion to the need for peace-keeping tasks. Whenever expansion is required it should take place at an early stage. The preparation, planning and budgeting that precede the actual operation are precisely the elements that are essential to its success. The budgets currently proposed to the General Assembly for setting up new peace operations are inadequate. This not only makes it difficult for the Member States to reach decisions on the funding of operations, but also indicates that, at the time the budgets are presented, there is no complete picture of the way the operation is to be set up. Obviously, if the number of peace operations decreases, the additional staff at the Secretariat will also no longer be necessary. What I am suggesting here is that any reinforcement be temporary, flexible and prompt. Apart from proper planning and training, adequate staffing and a satisfactory level of supervision - all of which are indispensable to the success of a peace operation - it is important that United Nations peace forces be on the spot as soon as possible after the decision to deploy them has been made. Otherwise, there is a danger that hostilities will be resumed and thus that the basis for successful implementation of the Security Council mandate will have disappeared before the forces are in position. Speed is therefore of the essence if the use of greater force is to be avoided. This is possible only if there is a clear picture of the forces that can be made available to the United Nations at short notice. In this connection, the Netherlands welcomes the formation of the stand-by forces planning team, which is engaged in formulating a concept and drawing up an inventory of rapid deployment forces. The Netherlands has undertaken to communicate by the end of 1993 which Dutch units could be eligible for designation as stand-by forces. The final decision concerning possible deployment of troops will of course always rest with the Netherlands Government. The growing demands on the United Nations system can be met only if standards of management, administration and accountability are high. The responsibility for determining and maintaining these standards lies first and foremost with ourselves as Member States. It is our responsibility to indicate clear priorities, to ensure consistency in the decisions taken by different United Nations commissions and governing bodies, and to provide the financial resources required to meet agreed priorities. Much criticism levelled against the Organization indicates a genuine need to improve the functioning and management of the Secretariat. Part of this criticism has its roots in the way Member States discharge their responsibilities: the failure of Governments to set priorities, the adoption of resolutions with unclear objectives and the failure to pay assessed contributions cannot be blamed on the Secretariat. I am convinced that the vast majority of United Nations staff members are dedicated and loyal international civil servants. We owe them our respect. In areas ranging from the direct provision of health care to non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, many of them work under difficult conditions, some even risking their lives. But despite the quality and commitment of its staff, the Secretariat should take a long hard look at its own management structure. Key phrases such as management by objectives, transparency and accountability must become household words in United Nations vocabulary. Line managers must be given greater responsibility and should be held accountable for the attainment of predetermined objectives. Moreover, the Secretariat should respond to criticism in a more satisfactory manner: first of all, by ensuring that justified criticism is acted upon and that corrective measures are taken without delay; and, secondly, by promptly refuting false allegations. In short, the public relations of the United Nations need improvement. The Secretary-General has taken several commendable initiatives to restructure the Secretariat. The first changes were introduced in the political sectors, and this year the social and economic sectors were reorganized. This restructuring has provided a solid basis for improving effectiveness and coordination. But further measures are required. It is important to maintain the momentum and to 24 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session provide clear perspectives for United Nations staff members: they should not be kept in the dark about their future status and about the direction of reform. Lingering uncertainty has affected staff morale and thus staff effectiveness. I have already said that Member States have a responsibility to provide financial resources for agreed priorities and mandated activities. The United Nations cannot be run on a shoestring. Year after year the Organization suffers from long delays in the receipt of assessed contributions. As a result, mandated activities can be implemented only in part or after substantial delay. In the area of peace-keeping, troop contributors unfortunately have to be prepared and able to provide long-term advance financing for peace-keeping operations. This lack of discipline among Member States forces the Secretariat to spend a great deal of energy attempting to solve incessant liquidity problems. The painful paradox is that the Secretariat’s relative success at shoestring budgeting seems to contribute to a further deterioration in payment discipline among Member States. Moreover, the burden of keeping the United Nations in business now lies unfairly with those Member States who make their payments promptly and in full. A number of Member States appear to make partial payments as an expression of their dissatisfaction with certain aspects of the Organization’s work. The United Nations does not serve an à la carte menu: dissatisfaction should be voiced in debate and by force of argument, not by withholding assessed contributions. We shall be considering the recommendations of the Volcker-Ogata report on the financing of the United Nations system during this session. The merits of many of the recommendations are obvious, but generally speaking they can only help to alleviate the immediate problems; they do not go to the heart of the matter. Ultimately, the only solution to the Organization’s financial problems - and this cannot be stated often enough - is prompt and full payment of assessed contributions by all Member States. While we insist that Member States meet their financial obligations, we also expect the Secretariat to use its financial resources in an efficient and effective manner. Some Member States have suggested the establishment of new financial control mechanisms. These proposals may have merits, but we should not lose sight of the fact that a number of control mechanisms already exist. I believe that a critical review of the functioning of the present mechanisms is in order before we decide upon new structures. But auditing alone is insufficient. The structure of the Organization must be such that financial and administrative mismanagement is prevented. Line managers, for example, must be held accountable for budgets under their control. In recent years the Netherlands delegation has presented several ideas aimed at the improvement of the management of United Nations programmes, and these have subsequently been adopted by the General Assembly. In addition, I advocate greater cost-awareness, not only among United Nations staff but also, and especially, among Member States. It is relatively simple to request the Secretary-General to undertake new activities, call additional meetings or produce reports on a variety of issues. But we must ask ourselves each time whether these requests meet a real need, as they compete for strained financial and staff resources. Although the resources of the United Nations are limited, genuine priorities must be met. In this respect, at this session the General Assembly will face a particularly difficult task. It will have to determine which activities will receive priority under the regular budget for 1994 and 1995. As new priorities emerge, a number of activities will have to be reduced or even eliminated altogether. We have to live within our means. The Netherlands believes that additional resources are needed most to strengthen the capacity of the United Nations in the area of human rights, to improve the Secretariat’s capacity to plan and manage peace-keeping activities and to ensure the effective coordination of humanitarian and emergency operations. So far I have addressed a number of conditions that will have to be fulfilled if the United Nations is to respond effectively to the new challenges confronting it. A sound financial basis, effective management and the availability of qualified personnel, both at the Secretariat and in the context of peace operations in the field, are the material requirements which must be met. However, no less crucial is the determination actually to implement the resolutions adopted by the Security Council. Decision-making in the Council should reflect the combined political will of its members - acting on behalf of the United Nations Member States - actually to translate their words into action where necessary, once the material conditions have been fulfilled. Too often in the recent past, there has been a failure to take decisive action despite a declared willingness to do so when such action was both necessary and justified. Irrespective of the detrimental effect this can have on peace operations themselves, it can also cause irreparable damage in the long term to the standing and credibility of Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 25 the United Nations as a whole. Let me be clear about this: I am not advocating resort to military action at the drop of a hat. But if the Security Council draws a line and says that if the line is crossed military action will be taken, it must be prepared to fulfil this pledge. If such a course proves impossible, then the mandate was not adequately tailored to the situation. If, on the other hand, the mandate is adequate but the Council lacks the will to carry it out, its apparent determination is nothing but an empty threat. Either way, the credibility of the Organization is dealt a severe blow. If this occurs too often, we run the risk that the new decisive United Nations of the post-cold-war era will become a paper tiger, making decisions that it cannot or will not put into practice. This must not be allowed to happen. Now, more than ever, we need a decisive United Nations and a firm commitment on the part of the Member States. The United Nations needs Member States that pay their dues, provide the Organization with the necessary human resources and have the political will to carry out the decisions which they have collectively arrived at. The Member States need a United Nations which is able to perform those tasks, which operates efficiently and effectively and which can be made accountable for the resources entrusted to it. It is the wish of the Kingdom of the Netherlands that this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly will bring us closer to achieving these aims. In extending to you, Sir, the warmest congratulations of the delegation of Cameroon on your election to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, I am not merely obeying protocol. I do so as well out of my wish to pay a tribute to your outstanding qualities and to welcome the significant contribution your country, Guyana, has made to the building of a more just and more united world. Your predecessor, our colleague Mr. Ganev of Bulgaria, carried out his mandate very well. We are grateful to him and express all our appreciation to him. For two years now our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has devoted unusual energy to the management of the Organization, management that has been made difficult by the increase in the number of United Nations missions, the complexity of the challenges to be met, and the acute financial crisis that is hindering the successful carrying out of his activities. Cameroon wishes to commend him for his wisdom and to assure him of its support. The Organization’s universality has been enhanced by the admission of six new Member States. It is a pleasure for me to welcome them among us and to assure them of Cameroon’s readiness to maintain and develop relations of cooperation and friendship with them. The especially significant and unexpected changes that have marked the end of this century confirm our feeling that we must never despair of the human being and that, whatever the circumstances may be, we must keep faith in mankind’s future. Indeed, the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly is being held at a time when the image of that historic handshake between Prime Minister Itzhak Rabin and President Yasser Arafat is still bright in our minds, a handshake that sealed the mutual recognition between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization and consecrated the agreement on autonomy for Gaza and Jericho. Never before have conditions been as conducive to the building of a lasting peace in the Middle East. Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993 7 That historic event, a sign of the times, was followed by the adoption by the Parliament of South Africa, which is still composed exclusively of whites and coloureds, of the agreement to establish a Transitional Executive Council, conferring upon the black majority a right to participate in the management of that country’s affairs with an eye to the April 1994 elections, which should usher in a united, democratic and non-racial South Africa. Those are undeniably two major events of exceptional significance, events that demonstrate the extent of the upheaval in the world we are now witnessing. Allow me, therefore, to salute the courage and great vision demonstrated by the Israeli Government and the leaders of the Palestine Liberation Organization. Certainly, the peace in the Middle East that had seemed elusive is now within reach. Cameroon had always hoped for this, and we are therefore gratified at the progress made and wish to pay a tribute to the various protagonists who contributed to it. And with regard to this situation, has the time not come to update the Organization’s documents dealing with the situation in the Middle East? Cameroon intends to contribute to the consideration of this question the circumstances call for. The tone and provisions of resolutions concerning South Africa also need to be brought into line with the changes taking place in that country. Cameroon supported the appeal made from this rostrum by President Nelson Mandela for the lifting of the economic sanctions against South Africa. We salute that outstanding son of Africa, and we include in this commendation President De Klerk, whose open-minded attitude has earned our admiration. The democratic transition in South Africa is at once fragile and promising for the whole of the African continent. It demands the support of the international community, which must work to put an end to violence and the destabilizing actions of the forces in the country that are opposed to change. Unfortunately, this remarkable improvement in the situations in the Middle East and South Africa cannot mask the threats to international peace and security caused by the persistence of armed conflicts in various parts of the world arising out of ethnic claims, the resurgence of nationalistic feelings, religious intolerance, the desire for power, poverty and underdevelopment. At the very heart of Europe, a frightful war continues in the Balkans, a war the more frightful because the ideology underlying it is an affront to the conscience of mankind. The indignation it has aroused throughout the world demands that the weapons be silenced to enable the virtues of dialogue to prevail over the logic of exclusion and conquest. That war is also sorely testing the international community’s ability to defend the principles and values of civilization in our era. It is equally untenable that in Angola innocent people, caught up in an increasingly senseless war, continue to be massacred. It must be obvious to everyone that a solution to the Angolan problem cannot be imposed by force of arms. It resides in concertation, dialogue and negotiation. We therefore urge the parties concerned to seize this most recent opportunity to achieve peace afforded them by strict implementation of the Abidjan Agreements and the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. The imperatives of peace are also pressing upon our Liberian, Somali and Mozambican brothers and sisters, who have legitimate aspirations to the stability needed to reconstruct their countries. As regards Haiti, it is also important, if legality is to triumph, that everything possible be done for the implementation of the Governors Island Agreement. In Western Sahara, we have not lost hope that, following the negotiations now under way, the obstacles to a referendum on the future status of the territory will be removed. In other parts of the world where hotbeds of tension persist the spirit of confrontation must yield to the search for negotiated solutions. In this context, Cameroon welcomes the decisive contribution of the United Nations to the restoration of peace in Cambodia. In paying tribute to the memory of all those who have paid for peace in Cambodia with their lives, I include Captain Ndi Ncho Abrahams of the Cameroonian contingent of military observers of the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC), who fell on the field of honour in Phnom Penh on 7 September 1993. I also wish to extend here our warm congratulations to His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk on his restoration to the throne of Cambodia. We are convinced that his lofty stature, eminent qualities and long experience will help his country to set out again on the path to progress and the reconciliation of its children. 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Meeting the challenge of peace, involves not only the silencing of weapons, but also ensuring the reconstruction of countries ravaged by war. We therefore appeal that, as measures are taken to settle certain regional conflicts, the necessary resources be mobilized to meet, as well as humanitarian needs, the reconstruction needs of African countries that have been torn by armed conflicts. This would bolster the willingness of the African Heads of State to assume greater responsibility in the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts in their region. The mechanism created for that purpose at the twenty-ninth Summit of the Organization of African Unity deserves the support of the international community, as it is involved in the implementation of the agenda for peace adopted by the Security Council. Furthermore, the adoption in Libreville in September 1993 of a non-aggression pact between the 11 States members of the Economic Community of Central African States is part of this trend. Concluded in the framework of the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, created last year by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, this agreement is an essential link in the chain of confidence-building measures aimed at the progressive reduction of the armed forces and military budgets of the States of the subregion. Our States are thereby determined to create an area of peace, security and solidarity. We are thus entitled to expect the continued support of the international community for this initiative, sponsored by the United Nations. In a more general context, the progress achieved in the field of disarmament and arms limitation should continue. We call on the major Powers to redouble their efforts to accelerate the disarmament process, especially in the field of nuclear weapons. The conclusion of a treaty banning nuclear tests would meet the expectations of the international community, just as the indefinite extension of the Non- Proliferation Treaty would help reassure the non-nuclear- weapon States. In this respect, we praise the dialogue being pursued by the parties concerned to find a negotiated solution to the differences between North Korea, on the one hand and the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Government of the United States of America on the other. Lastly, the progressive establishment of the structures of the Organization’s executive secretariat for the control of chemical weapons strengthens our conviction that general and complete disarmament is not just a dream. It is a fervent aspiration of mankind that could be achieved if greater political will were focused on that goal. At the recent World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna, our common vision of the values underlying mankind’s shared aspiration to the effective enjoyment of human rights made the longstanding dispute about a possible hierarchy as between civil and political rights and economic, social and cultural rights outdated. Now enshrined as indivisible and interdependent, all these rights have one objective alone: the promotion and protection of human dignity, regardless of considerations of race, colour, sex or religion. Recognition of that objective has contributed to the rebirth of the idea of the universality of human rights and has given those rights the moral and legal force of a categorical imperative with unassailable legitimacy. This development encourages the Government of Cameroon, with the impetus given by His Excellency President Paul Biya, to continue updating the legal and institutional frameworks to promote the effective enjoyment of human rights by our citizens. Our resolute march towards democracy can be gauged by the incomparable freedom of expression burgeoning throughout our national media, the flourishing of political parties, the vitality of popular participation in public life and the establishment, in the wake of the State’s gradual disengagement, of new and vast areas for the development of private initiative. The National Committee on Human Rights and Freedoms, whose activities enhance its credibility, is helping enormously to make public opinion aware of the importance of human rights and to alert our authorities to any possible violation. The recent organization in Yaoundé by the United Nations Centre for Human Rights of a training seminar for members of that Committee highlights the role of international cooperation in the promotion of human rights, particularly in developing countries. This cooperation suggests a new approach, necessitating a reversal of the tendency to turn human rights into political tools. This tendency often leads to a selective awareness of human rights violations and discrimination in the application of sanctions. Cooperation also suggests a new type of partnership, allowing the highly publicized activism on human rights to be replaced by calm and constructive dialogue between the various parties in charge of promoting and protecting human rights - States, national institutions, non-governmental organizations and multilateral institutions. In this context, the proposal to establish a post of high commissioner for human rights has its merits. None the less, it gives rise to some questions, the importance of which requires that it be considered attentively and in depth. Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993 9 The universality of human rights, which everyone must henceforth respect, requires the democratization of international economic relations. It would be unrealistic to circumscribe the exercise of democracy within national boundaries, when there are also flagrant injustices in international economic relations that constitute grave violations of human dignity. A victim of such injustices, Africa, more than any other developing region, has the characteristics of a continent adrift. It is toiling under an intolerable debt burden in a situation exacerbated by an overall trend towards disinvestment, a decline in official development assistance and a steady deterioration in the terms of trade as a result of the continuing fall in commodity prices. In these circumstances, is it acceptable that net financial flows should continue from the impoverished African countries to the rich countries? As we have already pointed out, this situation cannot be considered in economic terms alone. It is an ethical problem involving the conscience of our Northern partners and of international financial institutions. Need we recall that despite the seriousness of the economic crisis they are facing the African States, like the countries of the East, have undertaken courageous reforms towards liberalizing their economies and democratizing their political systems? While we are pleased at the mobilization of resources aimed at accompanying reform in the countries of the East, we must deplore the fact that no similar effort has been made for the benefit of the African countries that are also in a state of transition. Structural adjustment plans are the only alternative solution proposed to them. Because they are becoming increasingly exorbitant and difficult to bear, their social costs need to be given more attention by our partners so that the already fragile foundations of our young States will not crumble. The very recent International Conference, on African Development, held in Tokyo, will give us an opportunity to draw the attention of the international community to the distress of the African continent. The failure of the United Nations Programme of Action for African Economic Recovery and Development 1986- 1990 and the disappointing progress of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s underscore, if need be, the urgent need to establish for that continent a consistent set of measures to stimulate recovery including, in particular, debt alleviation and the enhancement of human resources, the transfer of technology, support for the diversification of production and the improvement of conditions for access of our products to international markets. We must set our sights on establishing a fund for financing African development. The imperatives of international solidarity are not consistent with compartmentalization on the basis of racial or geographical considerations. Hence, we cannot leave the African countries at the mercy of market forces, which are devoid of all legitimacy owing to speculation. The international community must therefore undertake to construct a more legitimate new world order that is in keeping with full respect for law and justice. The world partnership for sustainable development enshrined in Rio de Janeiro responds to this aspiration. While we are pleased at the establishment of the Commission for Sustainable Development, the release of resources required for the financing of Agenda 21 has not yet been accomplished. In the social sphere, activities conducted throughout the United Nations system with a view to fighting against the AIDS pandemic and to repressing the illicit traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances deserve high priority in the agenda of our Organization. Similar importance should be attached to the integration of women in the process of development and to the protection of vulnerable groups of society. The International Conference on Population and Development planned for Cairo in 1994, the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in 1995 in Copenhagen, and the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held also in 1995, in Beijing, will offer opportunities to review all of these issues at the highest level. These gatherings will make it possible for us to refine our understanding of these problems in order better to integrate them in our development policies. Guaranteeing international peace and security and promoting the economic and social development of its Members are the tasks that the United Nations has been called upon to perform since its establishment. The changes generated by the end of East-West rivalry have created conditions more conducive to the attainment of these objectives. Our Organization should therefore rethink its structures and its working methods in order to increase their 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session effectiveness, the better to respond to the ever-growing expectations of the international community. The restructuring process under way is of course part of this trend. We are pleased at the prevailing spirit of consensus in the search for solutions to this problem - a problem made complex and delicate because of the need to reconcile the need for effectiveness and the imperative of democratization which alone can safeguard the plurality of approaches that underlies the universality of our Organization. In this context, the reform of the Security Council should not be confined to a mere broadening of its composition. It should above all make it possible to revive the spirit behind the decision to confer upon the members of the Council broad powers regarding the maintenance of international peace and security. These powers should therefore be exercised in the interest of all, and not on the basis of other considerations. The General Assembly should, along the same lines, remain a global forum where the positions of States are expressed and harmonized. We are therefore in favour of a strong Secretariat endowed with adequate structures and with a highly qualified staff that reflects the diversity and the excellence of the peoples of the United Nations. This means that throughout the system and within our Organization, the ongoing process of restructuring should be consistent with the spirit of the Charter. Mankind has always cherished the utopian dream of a world in which man would no longer be a danger to his fellow man, and in which peace, justice and equity would prevail. The sudden acceleration of history at the turn of this century gives this utopian hope an impetus that enhances our shared perception of the need to establish a new and more united world order. This 'promise of history' being shaped will be an expression of the convergence of our will to free mankind of the consequences of a past that we hope is forever behind us. The universal conscience cannot put up with the horrors of war and of flagrant violations of human rights, nor should it at the dawning of the third millennium tolerate the persistence of poverty and hardship that trample underfoot the intrinsic values of our shared humanity. Thus the United Nations must meet the challenge of renewal in order fully to play its central role in the building of a world consistent with the ideals of its founding fathers. In the final analysis, history condemns us to be hopeful - in the midst of violence, does man not persevere in his utopian dream of peace? I am pleased to convey my congratulations to Ambassador Samuel Insanally, the Permanent Representative of Guyana and a distinguished member of our Latin American and Caribbean Group, on his well-deserved election as President of the General Assembly. A short while ago, we were hailing the end of the cold war. There seemed to be a fresh possibility of building a new international order based on sound moral principles, namely the principles of justice, law, freedom and democracy. The Gulf crisis, caused by Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait, offered the international community an opportunity to react resolutely to restore the rights thus violated. The principles of condemnation of the use or the threat of the use of force as a means of settling disputes were underscored. The inadmissibility and illegitimacy of the acquisition of territories through force were reaffirmed. The principles of the peaceful settlement of disputes and respect for the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of States were strengthened. Ecuador was gratified to see the resultant reinforcement of the fundamental and age-old pillars of its international policy. The world today aspires more firmly and decisively to live in freedom and democracy and in an atmosphere of full respect for human rights. This fundamental change has allowed the spread, not only of positive forces, but also of underlying conflicts which, within various regions, have set off apparently uncontainable escalation. The United Nations, whose prestige had reached new heights, was facing increasingly numerous, pressing and complex problems. Extreme nationalism had flared up in the Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 17 Balkans and elsewhere, while the breakdown of authority had given rise to tragic humanitarian situations in Somalia and in other regions. In Cambodia, the Organization had to contribute to rebuilding the State. The problems have not disappeared; on the contrary, they proliferate in the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and in the former Soviet Union. The large numbers of refugees created by war serve as a pretext for extremist, nationalist and xenophobic ideologies to arise in the very heart of Europe. The world, which applauded United Nations action on the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, is examining with a critical eye the Organization’s inaction and ineffectiveness in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In Bonn, the graffiti read, 'Europe is dying in Sarajevo'. In the Iraq-Kuwait conflict, the use of force and the acquisition of territory by force was condemned, but it seems that in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina the use of force is being allowed to yield results and to expand the territory of the aggressor. Here is a clear illustration that international morality is opposed to double standards of action. In that context, Ecuador views as vital the work under way to restructure and strengthen the world Organization. The General Assembly must shoulder with greater authority its responsibilities as the most representative democratic organ of the United Nations. The Security Council needs to be restructured to reflect the striking changes in the membership of the United Nations and to ensure that it is more representative and, hence, more legitimate. We commend all the steps being taken to that end, and we support others that still need to be taken to ensure that the work of the Council is characterized by vision and transparency. We think that its membership should be expanded, within limits ensuring that its work will be effective and aimed at the democratization of the Organization. Democratizing participation in the Council’s work requires the presence of States of special significance on the international scene, such as Germany and Japan, and of representatives of other geographical areas not now properly represented. The work of the United Nations in the economic and social fields should be strengthened and made more effective. We must not forget that peace is threatened not only by military aggression but also, and even more, by situations of injustice or crisis that ought to be settled in a spirit of international solidarity. For that reason, Ecuador looks forward to seeing as soon as possible the report the General Assembly has requested of the Secretary-General, on an agenda for development. Ecuador was pleased by the results of the recent World Conference on Human Rights. We believe that the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action constitute an important step forward towards recognizing the universal nature of human rights. The right to development is universal and inalienable. Ecuador appeals to all States to make an effort to implement the goals and purposes of the Vienna Programme of Action. Ecuador is deeply gratified by the positive developments in South Africa. We hope that the elections scheduled for 1994 will mark the conclusive establishment of a democratic, non-racial, pluralistic society truly free and open to progress. The most important element of progress may well be social development. For that reason, Ecuador firmly supported the initiative to convene the World Summit for Social Development. We reiterate our backing for the international community’s decision, which will add meaning to the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. The world economy is at a difficult stage. Even the developed economies are in deep crisis. We must adopt a new monetary and fiscal policy aimed at promoting short- term recovery and at eliminating structural imbalances in the medium term. It is vital to coordinate the macro-economic policies of the strongest countries in order to promote world economic growth. It is necessary also to take account of the legitimate interests of all countries, especially developing countries. It will be impossible to maintain and bolster our democracies without at the same time engaging in economic and social programmes aimed at improved living standards for all. In addressing these issues we should not rely solely on old economic statistical systems, but should turn to systems that evaluate the quality of life, such as that proposed by the United Nations Development Programme. I would recall that a country’s domestic policies play a dominant part in its development process. Ecuador has decided to carry out serious and thorough structural reforms that will permit greater scope for private enterprise and individual initiative and that will reduce Government intervention wherever it has proved to be ineffective and inappropriate. 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Economic development is meaningful when it addresses human reality. To achieve this, we must be firmly committed to modernizing the State and, by our example, ensuring that morality prevails in the work of the Government. But national efforts to modernize the State and open the economy to the universal trend towards freedom require timely, adequate financial support. This should be obtained, basically, by establishing a trading system making possible fair prices for commodities and other exports of developing countries. Ironically, while they make splendid speeches in favour of free trade, the powerful countries continue to impose measures that contradict their fine words. One example is the import barriers on Latin American bananas imposed by the European Economic Community. We are concerned about what results will issue from the Uruguay Round of negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). We need transparent machinery to fight protectionism; this must result from true international negotiations. For many countries, certainly including Ecuador, the external debt continues to be one of the most serious problems and one that has the heaviest negative impact, not only in the economic but also in the social and even political fields. We must review the financial policies of the international credit agencies and complement their resources with direct private investment, so that the flow of capital from the developing world to the developed countries does not, as has happened to date, exceed the amount of aid or investment channelled to the developing countries. Prudent and appropriate regulation of the environment and development is a task that concerns and interests us all. We must promote sustainable development that will meet humanity’s needs today without jeopardizing the rights of future generations. The Rio Conference is of far-reaching importance and the fulfilment of the decisions and commitments undertaken there is crucial. Agenda 21 is a historic document requiring political resolve on the part of all if it is to be put into effect. In that regard, the establishment and consolidation of financial sources is essential. In the context of international security it is vitally important that all international agreements concluded within the framework of the International Atomic Energy Agency be strictly complied with, and that the inspection systems be strengthened to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. In this respect, we support all efforts to create new nuclear-weapon-free zones and we voice our concern at any failure to comply with the resolutions relating to the Korean peninsula. We urge the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to heed the just demands of the international community. Today, I have heard with great concern of a possible breach of the moratorium on nuclear testing by the People’s Republic of China. If that information is confirmed, it will represent a grave step backwards in the process of establishing moratoriums on nuclear testing. We hope that it will not trigger a rush to new testing on the part of other nuclear Powers. In Latin America, democracy and freedom have been strengthened. It is our hope that, by means of the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination, Latin American will soon be free of the remaining exceptions. The case of Haiti is particularly disquieting. Respect for democracy and human values is a basic pillar of civilized coexistence. Ecuador believes that the joint action of the international community must encourage a new phase that will provide the Haitian people with certain basic guarantees. Throughout its history, Ecuador has demonstrated its peaceful spirit in true and unquestionable terms. In that spirit, it participated in the United Nations Observer Group in Central America and the United Nations Observer Mission in El Salvador. It continues to support the latter and has offered its forces for other peace-keeping operations. The proliferation of peace-keeping operations has highlighted the need to carry out a careful review of the conditions in which these operations are created and carried out and the limits of their respective mandates. This Organization should set the example of austerity in fund management in order to enhance its moral authority and its effectiveness. In the light of its special links with Latin America, Ecuador attaches particular importance to its relations with neighbouring countries. Our Government has strengthened and expanded its traditional relations with Colombia, and they have recently been evolving with great promise. A similar process is under way between the Governments of Ecuador and Peru. The Presidents of Ecuador and Peru have given repeated and eloquent proof of their political resolve to make progress in the process of dialogue that has opened between the two countries. This Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 19 process will enable us to ensure a climate of friendship, trust and understanding and to narrow the differences in our positions on the territorial issue. Together we can make significant steps towards promoting the well-being of our peoples, and as we move towards understanding we will be able to overcome the differences which have long been an obstacle in the way of a new era of fruitful coexistence. The Government of Ecuador was pleased and very grateful to note the demonstrations of support from many countries, particularly American ones, for our dialogue with Peru. We also appreciated the message that His Holiness Pope John Paul II addressed to President Sixto Durán Ballén and President Alberto Fujimori on the occasion of their meeting in Bahía de Caráques in December 1992. Ecuador, by tradition and inclination, has been a peace- loving nation and believes that the only valid way to overcome the territorial differences persisting between it and Peru lies in the peaceful settlement of disputes. One option in that regard is the arbitration of His Holiness the Pope, who, with his lofty moral authority and his enduring devotion to understanding and harmony among peoples, is extremely well qualified. That is why the Constitutional President of Ecuador, Sixto Durán Ballén, speaking from this very rostrum at the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, reiterated the initiative which former Ecuadorian President Rodrigo Borja set forth at the forty-sixth session of the General Assembly concerning the arbitration of the Holy See. In response to this initiative and in keeping with the spirit of dialogue that has been maintained and cultivated between the two countries, the President of Peru proposed the participation of the Holy See through the mediation of an expert adviser who would offer his opinion from the point of view of that neighbouring and friendly country with respect to the 'frontier disputes' with Ecuador. We now have two proposals that are distinct in scope and content: on the one hand, arbitration, and on the other the assistance of an expert adviser. But they coincide in their recognition of the great help to be had from the Pontiff, who in the course of history has traditionally worked for rapprochement and understanding among peoples. These very differences and varied proposals highlight the need to preserve and strengthen the process of dialogue between the two countries. Ecuador is faithfully committed to that process with a view not only to finding the fairest, most realistic and honourable solution to the problem, but also in order to respond appropriately to all the possibilities for complementary action, cooperation and joint endeavour that these two countries could and should pursue with a view to securing the development, integration and well-being for their peoples. Thus, we shall no longer be divided by borders and borders will become points of union and of promising cooperation, with tremendous scope and possibilities. This has been the case with regard to the maritime area that we share; this is the hope of the two peoples, especially the peoples of southern Ecuador and northern Peru; this must be the case with regard to the Amazon River meeting for a historic reconciliation of our two nations that adequately meets the major interests of the two countries in the Amazon region and identifies them in plans that take account of their individual and collective rights, enhance their potential and create conditions reflecting the importance of a major river system and a region that all the countries of the basin must preserve and promote for the sake of current development as well as the future well-being of our peoples. In this spirit of frank and constructive dialogue, President Sixto Durán Ballén accepted the kind invitation of President Alberto Fujimori to visit Peru. Ecuador’s Foreign Ministry is busy making preparations with the authorities of that friendly country for this mission so that the greatest possible success may be achieved. A few days ago the world enthusiastically welcomed the handshake between two courageous men who had opted for peace and understanding. I should like, on behalf of Ecuador, to pay tribute to Prime Minister Itzhak Rabin and President Yasser Arafat. I am confident that this gesture, this historic event, will be not only the beginning of a tough but promising relationship aimed at securing understanding and cooperation between the two peoples but also a signal, a sign of the times, for many other peoples who have to pursue the arduous path of peace and understanding. For this reason, President Clinton was absolutely right when, on that historic morning, he said: 'We know that a difficult path lies before us. Every peace has its own enemies - those who always prefer the easy attitudes of hatred to the hard task of reconciliation.' Ecuador believes in peace and trusts in peace and understanding. Hence, I wish to associate myself with the noble words of Cardinal Antonio Samoré, the delegate of the Holy Father in the Papal mediation between the fraternal countries of Argentina and Chile, in his speech at the time 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session of the signing, in Montevideo, of the commitment between the two countries: 'I say to all of you - Christians, believers and men of good will: do not be afraid to opt for peace, to educate for peace. The aspiration to peace will never be disappointed. The endeavour to achieve peace inspired by charity that never fails will yield its fruits. Peace will be the last word in history.' Against this background, and with a view to ensuring that these efforts are made in an appropriate climate of genuine understanding and harmony and will be effective, I formally take the opportunity, at this rostrum, to propose to the Government of Peru that, reaffirming the commitment that both countries have made in accordance with many existing international instruments - principally, the United Nations Charter - we give our word of honour that, in our mutual relations, we shall not resort to force or to the threat of the use of force. Such a solemn commitment would underscore an essential legal obligation and amount to an eloquent additional means of promoting mutual trust; and it would be an appropriate framework for continued dialogue on the path of peace and understanding, with a view to achieving, as soon as possible, a fair, honourable and lasting settlement between the two countries. Allow me to begin by extending to you, Sir, my sincere congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I am confident that your solid diplomatic background and rich experience will effectively contribute to the success of the work of this session. More than ever before, our Organization today needs cooperation between its Member States if it is to save itself from attempts to divert its course from the spirit and principles of its Charter and thereby turn it into a tool for serving the selfish interests of certain dominant Powers, first among which is the United States of America. The world has attached great importance to the end of the bipolarity that overshadowed the international situation 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session until recently and restricted the ability of the United Nations to address and resolve international problems. The new era, however, has failed to provide the United Nations with the opportunity to apply the principles, objectives and mechanisms of the Charter. A single Power - the United States of America - has sought to control the manner in which the United Nations addresses international issues and to steer it in accordance with United States interests. The selectivity and double standard that characterize the role currently played by the United Nations make it crystal clear that the United Nations and the Security Council in particular have become tools that execute the policies of the Powers that dominate the Organization. The United Nations is no longer a world Organization capable of resolving the problems and addressing the crises which beset many countries and peoples of the world in a manner that is consonant with the objectives and principles of its own Charter. What did the Security Council ever do to implement its resolution 487 (1981), on the military aggression perpetrated by Israel against an Iraqi nuclear reactor devoted to peaceful purposes? That resolution was adopted 12 years ago and the Security Council has done absolutely nothing to implement it. Indeed, we have reached the point today at which the Israeli Deputy Defence Minister, Mordechai Gur, can arrogantly declare, as he did on 6 June 1993, that Israel does possess nuclear weapons and that it has the capacity to bomb the Arab States with those devices. At the same time, Israel continues to adamantly refuse to sign the non-proliferation Treaty and the United Nations and the Security Council have done absolutely nothing to halt the Israeli programmes of mass destruction weapons, which include the production and stockpiling of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons together with the means of their delivery, regardless of the fact that those programmes constitute a grave threat to the security and stability of the region and the whole world. While the United Nations is being forced to engage in a military operation in Somalia under the pretext of providing humanitarian assistance, the United Nations stands helpless and incapable of taking any appropriate action to put an end to the carnage or to alleviate the bitter human suffering in Bosnia and Herzegovina and other parts of former Yugoslavia. This paralysis takes place against the backdrop of the shifting tides of the positions of the dominant Powers in line with their own selfish interests and schemes and their backing away from any measure that would help in reaching a solution or put an end to this tragedy. Because of the climate prevailing in the international community - a climate of selectivity and double standards - the gap between North and South continues to widen at the expense of the interests of the developing countries and Iraq finds itself in a situation that has never been witnessed before by any other founding State Member of the United Nations. This is due to the complications and unfair treatment meted to Iraq by the resolutions of the Security Council under pressure exerted by the United States of America and its hegemonistic policies towards others. The most telling example of the hegemony exercised by the United States of America over the United Nations and of United States monopoly of the interpretation and implementation of the provisions of the Charter, and use of the mechanisms related thereto in the service of purely American rather than common international interests, is what has been done and continues to be done to Iraq at a time when it has declared its commitment to the resolutions of the Security Council which it fully implements. In return, Iraq continues to be subjected to acts of aggression which threaten its security and territorial integrity and infringe upon its sovereignty. Iraq also remains deprived of its natural right to obtain its needs, including those described in international legal terms as basic human and civilian needs. Those needs are essential for the people of Iraq if they are to continue to lead a normal life. Iraq also remains deprived of the right to export its natural resources while its assets remain frozen. Iraq continues to be denied the right to use its civil aircraft and ships and continues to be subjected to flagrant military intervention in its internal affairs, to daily acts of violation of its airspace, and to the perpetration of a declared conspiracy against its political system. Iraq has endeavoured, despite all these adverse circumstances and difficulties, to contain the crises which certain powers have so skilfully orchestrated in order to perpetrate further aggression against Iraq and create pretexts for continuing to impose the iniquitous comprehensive blockade against it. Within the framework of Iraq’s serious, continuous attempts to reveal the truth, close the door on the forces of ill-intent and expose their objectives, and driven by its desire to find solutions to the outstanding issues through a serious responsible dialogue based on justice and fairness and consistent with international law and the United Nations Charter, Iraq has called, in a letter dated 30 May 1993 from the Foreign Minister of Iraq to the President of the Security Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 21 Council, for constructive and comprehensive dialogue with the Security Council within the framework of the legal and practical interrelationship between Iraq’s implementation of its obligations and the text of resolution 687 (1991) on the one hand, and the Security Council’s implementation of its own obligations towards Iraq according to the provisions of the said resolution, particularly paragraphs 21 and 22, on the other. Iraq calls for the Security Council to adopt fair and just positions which would reflect the Council’s respect for its own obligations and commitments as enshrined in the United Nations Charter, and thereby to respect the sovereignty, independence, internal security and territorial integrity of Iraq, lift the unjust blockade that has been imposed upon the people of Iraq for three years now, and which has inflicted, and continues to inflict, untold suffering upon them and to lift all the restrictions that are still imposed without justification on normal, legitimate Iraqi activities. Iraq has cooperated objectively with all the inspection teams and missions dispatched by the United Nations, in order to fulfil its obligations according to the resolutions of the Security Council, regardless of how unjust and indeed how extremely iniquitous those resolutions are. In fact many of the officials of those teams and missions have confirmed that Iraq has honoured its obligations in implementation of the Security Council resolutions. May I refer here, by way of example, to the statement made by the United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM) Executive Chairman, Mr. Rolf Ekeus, on 13 January 1993, in which he said, 'Iraq’s compliance has been a success so far, and it would be tragic if the last 5 per cent of implementation could not to be carried out.' Earlier, on 2 September 1992, Mr. Maurizio Zifferero, the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspection team, said, 'Iraq’s nuclear programme stands at zero now.' Convinced that Iraq has met all its obligations under resolution 687 (1991), we called upon the Security Council, both as a collective body and as individual Member States, just as we had long been calling upon the Special Commission, to conduct a technical, professional and legal dialogue with Iraq in order to specify the extent to which resolution 687 (1991) in general, and section C thereof in particular, have been implemented, so that the Council may consider implementing paragraphs 21 and 22 of the resolution, which pertain to the lifting of the economic sanctions imposed on Iraq. The dialogue proposed by Iraq was also meant to strip away all the pretexts that have continued to be used to mask the illegal and aggressive measures unilaterally taken by certain individual States against Iraq and its territorial integrity. The most flagrant of those measures are the so-called 'no-fly zones' imposed on northern and southern Iraq and the military acts of aggression perpetrated by the United States against Iraq on 17 January 1993 and 27 June 1993. When the Security Council responded, in July 1993, to our call for dialogue and sent the Executive Chairman of the Special Commission to Baghdad to conduct talks with the Iraqi side, we welcomed the visit and held intensive, frank and constructive discussions with Mr. Ekeus, through which we reached an agreement to resolve a number of issues and to continue our dialogue in earnest on grounds that are just, fair, logical and consistent with international law and the United Nations Charter. We presented to Mr. Ekeus, and through him to the Security Council, a position paper clearly expressing the way in which Iraq envisages the relationship between Iraq’s responsibilities towards the Security Council and its resolutions, on the one hand, and the responsibilities of the Security Council, both as a body and as Member States, towards Iraq’s firm rights and legitimate demands, foremost among which are the following: to respect the sovereignty, internal security and dignity of the people and State of Iraq; to guarantee Iraq’s right to development and to industrial, scientific and technological progress; to implement paragraph 22 of Security Council resolution 687 (1991), pertaining to the lifting of the embargo on Iraq now that Iraq has accomplished what is required of it under the provisions of section C of that resolution; to work in earnest towards the implementation of paragraph 14 of resolution 687 (1991), pertaining to the establishment in the Middle East of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction and the means of their delivery and to bring to an immediate end the so-called 'no-fly zones' imposed on northern and southern Iraq, which constitute an illegal use of armed force by three permanent member States of the Security Council, aimed at interfering in the internal affairs of a Member State of the United Nations. Iraq reiterated its positive positions and its desire for dialogue during the meetings held last month here in New York by the Iraqi high-level technical delegation. We have also endeavoured to ensure that this positive spirit prevails in the current round of meetings which started in Baghdad on 2 October 1993. We look forward to seeing this round 22 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session succeed in solving all outstanding issues in a complete and final manner so that the Security Council may begin in earnest to implement paragraph 22 of resolution 687 (1991) which states that the Security Council: 'Decides that upon the approval by the Security Council of the programme called for in paragraph 19 above and upon Council agreement that Iraq has completed all actions contemplated in paragraphs 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 above, the prohibitions against the import of commodities and products originating in Iraq and the prohibitions against financial transactions related thereto contained in resolution 661 (1990) shall have no further force or effect'. In view of these developments, and in order for the principles of justice and equity and of the mutuality of rights and obligations between Iraq and the Security Council to prevail, we hereby call upon all countries of the world to support our initiative for dialogue and understanding between the Council and Iraq so that such dialogue may lead without delay to the lifting of the unjust and iniquitous blockade imposed on our country, and thereby to put an end to the methods of coercion, threats and aggression being used against our country. We also call upon the countries of the world to urge the Security Council, both as a collective body and as individual Member States, to consider Iraq’s legitimate demands as expressed in the Iraqi position paper submitted to the Security Council in July 1993. The paper deals with the most important issues, especially respect for Iraq’s sovereignty, internal security and territorial integrity, the lifting of the iniquitous blockade, the removal of the 'no-fly zones' illegally imposed on parts of Iraq and abstaining from any further aggression against Iraq. The people of Iraq are being subjected to inhumane policies and practices that have further aggravated their suffering which increases from one day to the next. The domination by the United States and its allies over the activities of the Sanctions Committee, which was set up in accordance with Security Council resolution 661 (1990), has made that Committee hostage to premeditated political objectives and ill intentions against Iraq and its people. The Committee has ignored the basic civilian and human needs of the Iraqi people to the extent that it has refused to allow Iraq to obtain much needed medical supplies as well as equipment and educational supplies for its schools. The Committee has gone as far as to consider paint for school desks and blackboards as well as ink as proscribed materials that the Iraqi people should not be permitted to obtain. In refusing to grant the permission to obtain any of those essential civilian requirements, it resorts to flimsy pretexts and unacceptable justifications. For instance, the Committee has refused to allow pencils and notebooks to be supplied to Iraq’s schoolchildren, claiming that the quantity requested was too large. The Committee has also rejected a request for the supply of medical equipment, beds and air-conditioning systems for Iraqi hospitals. The reason given for that refusal was that the end user was not known. What irony! The Sanctions Committee has refused to allow water purification materials to be supplied to Iraq, rejected a request submitted by a company for the reconstruction of a factory producing medical syringes in Iraq and refused to allow the importation of spare parts for a baby-food factory in Iraq under the pretext that such spare parts would contribute to the expansion of the country’s industrial capability. The practices of a limited number of Member States in the Sanctions Committee which seems to have inherited the veto privilege under the cover of general consensus, have demonstrated beyond all doubt that the embargo is geared towards destroying Iraqi society with premeditated persistence and through organized and calculated efforts driven by political motives that are contrary to all values, laws and norms acceptable to the international community now or in the past. The war of destruction launched against Iraq by the United States and its allies, the continued imposition of the comprehensive blockade and the denial of Iraq’s right to export its oil and use its frozen assets in foreign banks have all combined to make Iraq unable to provide even the most elementary of its people’s basic humanitarian needs, such as food and medication. The result has been a huge increase in mortality among children and the elderly, due to the grave shortage of medicines. On top of all its other difficulties in various fields, Iraq suffers from, for example, an acute shortage of medicines for the treatment of cancer, kidney problems, heart disease, diabetes, blood pressure disorders, eye diseases, diarrhoea, tuberculosis and other serious diseases. Over the months that have elapsed in 1993, tuberculosis-related fatalities among children have risen by 81 times over the figure registered for the corresponding period in 1989; and this is but one example. I do not wish to elaborate on the difficult humanitarian conditions of the Iraqi people. The reports by the various missions and agencies of the United Nations have warned against the dangerous results of the deteriorating food and health situation brought upon the Iraqi people as a result of the blockade. Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 23 The most recent of those reports is Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) document 237, issued in July 1993 under the title 'Special Warning'. This document depicts the deterioration of Iraq’s food situation as a result of the difficulties facing the agricultural sector because of acute shortages of equipment and pesticides and the spread of agricultural epidemics. The FAO report also points out that the economic sanctions imposed upon Iraq have led to the spread of deprivation on a massive scale, thus exposing the vast majority of the Iraqi population to acute food shortages and malnutrition, particularly children under five years of age. The report also states that the economic blockade has practically paralysed the country’s economy and led to continued deprivation and the spread of massive human suffering. Not content with its military aggression against Iraq on 17 January 1991 or with all the inhuman practices it has pursued against the Iraqi people, the United States of America has continued to perpetuate direct and unilateral acts of military aggression against Iraq under various false pretexts and flimsy justifications. In addition to the first colossal aggression of 1991, the United States perpetrated two further acts of aggression against Iraq’s civilian population and civilian installations on 17 January 1993 and 27 June 1993. These two additional acts of aggression resulted in the loss of many innocent civilian lives among children, women and elderly people. As a permanent member of the Security Council, the United States of America has a double responsibility to abide by international law and the United Nations Charter. The United States should be the last country to resort to the use of force in resolving disputes, yet it perpetrated aggression against Iraq on the basis of unfounded and absurd allegations that there was a conspiracy against the life of the former United States President. In so doing, the United States Government justified its action by a twisted interpretation of Article 51 of the United Nations Charter that was totally alien to that article’s letter and spirit. This behaviour constitutes a grave escalation of a policy that has been and will certainly continue to be a threat to international peace and security, a policy that violates the right of States to self-defence, as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. The behaviour of the United States, in particular its aggression of 27 June 1993, has met with rejection and condemnation from many countries round the world, including some allies of the United States itself. As regards the issue of human rights, Iraq proceeds from a complete belief in those rights and in the fact that respect for, and protection of, human rights remains an unquestionable element upon which the internal structure of society is established and an element that contributes positively to the establishment of peace and justice at the international level. It is on the basis of such conviction and such understanding that Iraq has acceded to many international covenants on human rights. Iraq has also honoured its obligations by submitting regular reports regarding the situation of human rights. While we realize that many positive developments have taken place in the field of human rights, reflecting the widespread recognition of their importance, a recognition further cemented by legal provisions in the various international covenants, these developments have not been accompanied, in terms of real application, by an earnest endeavour to help create the right climate for the declared legal provisions to be implemented in accordance with the greatly varying circumstances prevailing in various States, according to each one’s cultural background, religious beliefs and level of progress and development. On the contrary: it can be seen that the concept of human rights has become a weapon used by certain States possessing the means of influence with which to exert discriminatory pressure on other States for selfish political objectives and interests rather than for the realization of common objectives and interests of the international community. What is particularly worrying to us is the neglect shown towards basic rights upheld by the international community and declared as governing principles such as the right to self-determination, the right to development, the right of States to respect for their sovereignty, stability and territorial integrity as well as non-interference in their internal affairs. The great challenges facing the United Nations put the Organization at a decisive crossroads, beyond which we shall see the will of the international community either totally paralysed under the influence of dominant Powers, or searching for an outlet through an endeavour to restore balance to the mechanisms governing the process of decision-making and decision-implementation in the various United Nations agencies, with a view to ensuring the effectiveness of the Organization and guaranteeing its ability to resolve international problems in accordance with rules of fairness, justice and international law, as well as ensuring the revitalization of the role of the United Nations on the basis of compatible and unified concepts and criteria and away from double standards. The enhancement of the United Nations ability to maintain peace requires, above all, strict adherence to the objectives and principles of the Charter, particularly the principles of the sovereign equality of States, the right of 24 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session peoples to self-determination, to non-interference in the internal affairs of States and to observance of the rules of international law. Iraq, as a founding Member of the United Nations, is extremely anxious that the Organization’s name and emblem remain worthy of respect and continue to be regarded as a beacon of hope by all peoples of the world. We believe that membership in the Security Council should go hand in hand with the new realities brought about by the increased membership of the United Nations, and that this should be done in a manner that would bring about a more equitable and balanced representation of all United Nations Member States. The Council should abide by the principles of clarity and openness in its decision-making process; it should also operate with due regard to respect for the sovereign rights of all States. My country supports the thesis put forth by the Secretary-General in his report 'An Agenda for Peace' regarding the importance of the role assigned to the General Assembly by the United Nations Charter, especially in the field of the maintenance of international peace and security. The achievement of the United Nations objectives requires that the mechanisms of the General Assembly should be strengthened within the framework of its spheres of competence stipulated by the Charter and that this should be done through discussion and the adoption of resolutions on subjects of international importance. The strength and vitality of the United Nations are closely linked to the extent of participation by its Member States in the process of decision-making and to their equitable representation in the various specialized organs and agencies. The United Nations Secretary-General, in his report 'An Agenda for Peace', highlights the fundamental fact that social peace is just as important as strategic and political peace. He stresses that peace cannot be guaranteed within the framework of narrow military concept, as there are several economic and environmental factors that play their part in the maintenance of peace and that those factors can themselves become the fuel for the eruption of conflicts and wars between peoples. The need to maintain international peace and security puts the United Nations face to face with the responsibility of removing the causes of conflict in which economic factors play the vital role. If it is said today that the world has put the dangers of the cold war behind it, we must remind ourselves that our world faces very real dangers that arise from the grave deterioration in the world economic situation, particularly the bitter suffering of the developing countries, their increasing poverty and the frustration of their development programmes. The gap has been growing wider and wider between the rich industrial North and the poor South which is seeking an opportunity for survival as it witnesses the prices of its basic commodities tumble, its foreign trade deteriorate, and its resources become prey to plunder and extortion. Peace is a concept that cannot be divided. It is a fundamental right for mankind, recognized by all religions as well as by international covenants. That indivisible concept of peace must combine all dimensions, especially the economic which, if missing, exposes the international community to grave problems and dangerous conflicts. To really guarantee international peace and security, we must realize that this depends on the extent to which the inherent causes of conflict are removed and that economic and social development constitute the most important foundation upon which to establish international peace and security. Once we realize this, we shall find that many of the causes of instability arise from economic and social factors. The United Nations should address such factors in all seriousness and should give them priority in the activities of its various organs, particularly the General Assembly and its specialized agencies, in a manner that would heighten the efficacy of the United Nations and the role it plays in facilitating cooperation between States in the fields of economic and social development and in other areas of international cooperation. This responsibility should be shouldered by the United Nations on the basis of the principles enshrined in its Charter for the enhancement of the factors of economic development and progress and the establishment of multilateral non-discriminatory international economic order which would be based on respect for the choices made by countries and peoples and which would encourage respect for mutual interests and put an end to exploitation and hegemony. The United Nations should focus its efforts on the search for the practical formulae that would lead to consolidating the national infrastructures and enhancing the Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 25 capabilities of the poorer and developing countries and help them overcome their difficulties, implement their development programmes and narrow the huge gap existing at present between the rich industrial countries and the developing countries. Such an effort will no doubt serve the cause of stability, security and peace in the world. Like previous speakers, I would like to seek your indulgence before I start my statement as I associate my delegation’s voice with those who have spoken here and convey our very profound condolences to the delegation of India and to the Indian people and Government for the disastrous earthquake which has brought death to thousands. It is a particular pleasure for me to extend to Ambassador Insanally my sincere congratulations on his well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I am convinced that his wealth of experience will guarantee the success of our work. To his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of the Republic of Bulgaria, we wish also to express our appreciation for the way in which he performed his duties. I would also like to pay a tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dynamism and for the numerous initiatives he has taken in order to promote international peace and cooperation. Finally, my delegation welcomes the presence among us of new States, whose admission to membership has strengthened the universality of our Organization. As we do every year, we have once again reached the time when we assess the international situation. The end of East-West confrontation, by reducing already-existing tensions and by promoting the settlement of certain conflicts, has engendered great hopes for peace and cooperation. But at the same time, it has unleashed forces that need to be channelled in order to avoid new excesses which will lead to fresh tensions. 'An Agenda for Peace' - very aptly reminds us of the existence of other serious issues threatening international peace and security as well as the future of mankind, such as poverty, the deterioration of the environment and the debt crisis. These various evils are indeed scourges which, because of the anguish and despair they generate, can destabilize many societies. Nevertheless, laudable efforts are increasingly being made to build a new world order based not only on democracy and development but also on the absolute need for respect for human rights. Many countries have begun to democratize their political and social systems. These changes are accompanied 40 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session by difficulties and shocks, for democracy is a difficult lesson to learn, requiring a lengthy apprenticeship that is made all the more challenging by a fragile economic and social context. The confusion of certain mentalities which are illprepared for change must be added to this, as well. Here, patience, good will and even the assistance of the international community are necessary if the worst is to be avoided. In the Congo, the democratic process has been extremely bumpy. After the national conference which led to a laborious period of transition, elections were organized, as a result of which a Head of State, Mr. Pascal Lissouba, was democratically elected by 61 per cent of the votes cast. One might then have believed that the country was embarked upon the right course, but, alas, 25 years of totalitarian regimes took their toll. Dissensions within the new parliamentary majority are about to give rise to a motion of censure, which is to say the very least premature - scarcely three weeks after the formation of the first Government. After numerous vain attempts at reconciliation, the President of the Republic was moved to dissolve the National Assembly to allow the sovereign people to give the country a clear-cut majority by which he could govern. This constitutional prerogative was challenged by the opposition parties, which further exacerbated the political crisis. The express will of the President of the Republic to opt for peaceful means, the mediation of the high command of the Congolese armed forces, as well as the good offices of the President of the Gabonese Republic, Mr. Omar Bongo, made it possible for an agreement to be concluded on 3 December 1992. This agreement not only enshrines the formation of a Government with a majority participation of the opposition - more than 60 per cent - but also entrusts the political parties with organizing elections to the legislature on an equitable basis. The first round of these elections was thus organized last May without any major incidents and in the presence of foreign observers, who did not fail to attest to the correctness of the balloting procedures. The opposition, which found itself in a minority as a result of that vote, systematically challenged those results, demanding that the vote be invalidated by the organ in charge of organizing the balloting, whereas Congolese electoral law states that electoral disputes are the purview of the Supreme Court, which is the only competent jurisdiction pending the creation of a Constitutional Council. Because of certain subterfuges, clever sabotage, delaying tactics and high-handed manoeuvres that ignored the best interests of the nation, the Congolese opposition deliberately infringed the institutional process which should lead to democracy and development. After the memorable national conference, no one would have imagined that the Congolese would find themselves in the situation of refugees in their own country. If the people’s right to civil disobedience would appear to be a natural outcome of the Constitution of our country, civil disobedience should not be regarded as a synonym for destruction of the social and economic fabric. Even if the conditions for such disobedience had been present, the acquisition or the large-scale distribution of arms and weapons of war can hardly be understood, and even less their being used for the purposes of mass destruction and blind terrorism. Is it conceivable that, when the vote has not turned out favourably, the streets, urban communities and innocent people taken hostage become pawns which are used in bargaining over political decisions? Plundering the property of peaceful citizens - is this something which can validate lost causes? The acts of sabotage and systematic destruction perpetrated by bands armed by the opposition last July caused a massive loss of human life. To this we should add considerable physical and material damages. Today, 3,000 families - in other words approximately 15,000 Congolese - are homeless and their sole refuge are classrooms and student dormitories. Such a situation poses a serious threat to the new school year which begins in a few weeks. Of course, the Government is making tremendous efforts in order to meet the vital needs of the displaced families and to reintegrate them into Congolese society. But, unfortunately, in a Republic with a ramshackle economy and which is financially bereft, it is impossible for this challenge to be met. That is why the Government of my country appeals to the international community in order to obtain emergency aid to assist all those Congolese who have been deprived of their property or who have been physically harmed. Despite this tragic situation, which might indeed have elicited a rigid attitude from the authorities, the Republic’s Government threw open the doors to negotiation. Thus, once again through the mediation of President Bongo of Gabon, an agreement - the so-called Libreville Agreement - was signed in the presence of foreign observers on 4 August last. This agreement, which confirmed the results of the first round, calls for the resumption of the second round of elections to the legislature initially boycotted by the Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 41 opposition. As for the electoral dispute, it is to be decided by an international arbitral college which is made up as follows: two judges appointed by the Organization of African Unity, two judges appointed by the European Economic Community, two judges appointed by the French Government and one judge appointed by the Gabonese Government. The Government thus has every hope that following upon this vote and the resolution of the electoral dispute, it will be able to lay the definitive groundwork for a real rule of law with the establishment of all constitutional organs. This is the situation in the Congo today. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those countries and all those agencies which have been kind enough to help the Congolese people resolve a crisis which seriously threatens peace in the country and which could erode national unity and compromise the future of the democratic process itself. The Congolese Government would like to reiterate here, through me, its commitment to abide by the decision of the arbitral college and the verdict of the ballot boxes. The Congo is going through a very difficult stage. The desperate state of its economy and its social fabric has led the Government to undertake economic reforms. These reforms have so far been unfortunately frustrated by political and social instability. These reforms deal, inter alia, with restructuring the State productive sector by the total or partial withdrawal of the State, the financing of economic recovery, the reorganization and renegotiation of the external debt and finally the defrayment of the social costs of this adjustment. If they are to bear fruit, these efforts and the sacrifices they will entail must be sustained by financial aid, otherwise the Congo will remain mired in poverty and instability. Far from being unique, the critical economic and social situation in Congo is but one illustration of a crisis that affects almost all African countries and many developing countries. Thus, to the political factors involved we must add major economic and social challenges. It is quite clear that poverty threatens the cohesiveness of States and brings about profound imbalances in the developing countries, endangering the very foundation of human rights. But there is one basic human right that continues to have pride of place: the right to development. Despite the numerous steps taken to date, the developing countries remain weighed down by the heavy burden of debt, and the increasing cost of servicing that debt is becoming unbearable for economies which are already in great trouble. My delegation believes that resolving the foreign-debt crisis requires bold steps. Nevertheless, we are very much aware of all those efforts which are contributing to the settlement of that crisis. That is why we greatly appreciate the expression of solidarity from the French Government, which decided last year in Libreville partially to cancel the debt of medium-income countries, including the Congo. After many initiatives which proved ineffective, the international community must finally give priority to growth and development in the poor countries by building, on the ruins of the former East-West order, a new order based on more dynamic and more innovative North-South relations that would promote attainment of the objectives of the International Development Strategy enshrined in this body. This Strategy should receive all the support necessary to promote the creation of an international trade system that is both open and non-discriminatory, with the successful outcome of the negotiations of the Uruguay Round; to encourage the conclusion of specific agreements to readjust commodity prices; and, finally, to find lasting solutions to the external-debt crisis. It is acknowledged that improving the situation in Africa necessarily involves economic reform. Nevertheless, efforts undertaken nationally, subregionally and regionally have unfortunately not enjoyed the international support expected. The adoption of the New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s signified the failure of the United Nations Programme of Action for African Economic Recovery and Development. Unfortunately, we cannot but conclude that so far, this new development programme has fallen far short of expectations. That being the case, my delegation welcomes the decision taken by the Japanese Government to convene, in cooperation with the United Nations and the Global Coalition for Africa, on 5 and 6 October next in Tokyo an International Conference on African Development, and we voice the hope that this Conference will lead to concrete measures. The economic crisis which besets our countries is particularly damaging to young people. Juvenile delinquency, illicit drug trafficking, drug abuse and AIDS are all serious threats to our societies. It is essential that they be given close attention. In this connection, more solidarity should be displayed in order to eradicate these scourges. My delegation supports the conclusions reached by the most recent session of the Economic and Social Council on 42 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session efforts to combat malaria, dysentery and, particularly, cholera. The United Nations system must attach a high priority to Africa, taking into account the serious consequences these scourges have for development programmes. There can be lasting economic and social development only in a healthy environment. The results reached by the Rio Conference, enshrined in Agenda 21, are extremely heartening. They undoubtedly reflect a global consensus as well as a political commitment at the highest level to cooperation for the purposes of development and the environment. But the key to their success resides in the financial resources made available. Today, more than ever before, the increase in natural disasters is a matter of concern to us all. That is why my delegation welcomes the Japanese Government’s offer to host, in 1994, a World Conference on Natural Disaster Reduction, which will deal with the various dangers these disasters entail and identify the necessary guidelines under which they can be taken into account by the United Nations in its development projects. Since we have boldly struck out on the path to building a State of law, my Government supports the international community’s action to promote and develop human rights. That is why we welcome the results of the World Conference on Human Rights, held last June in Vienna, and reiterate our appeal to fund-raisers to help finance the various action programmes which were drawn up in that context. The current session has started at a time when the persistence of local conflicts and the resurgence of hotbeds of tension are a daily concern of our Organization in its mission to build and preserve peace. Nevertheless, although we can welcome the favourable developments in certain situations, it must be recognized that a large number of them remain subjects of grave concern. Among the former, we have the situation in South Africa. A number of factors today indicate that the abhorrent system of apartheid will inevitably be eradicated, even if tensions are still rife and there are still scenes of violence. The process of democratization in South Africa can no longer be in question. The fact that 27 April 1994 has been fixed for the first multiracial elections is proof of this. My delegation gives their due value to the efforts which have been constantly made by the South African Government to eradicate apartheid and to democratize the country. Furthermore, we support the request for the lifting of sanctions formulated by Nelson Mandela. My Government believes that peace in Somalia can be restored only if Security Council resolutions 751 (1992), 794 (1992) and 814 (1993) are implemented, resolutions which, inter alia, call for the organization of a reconciliation conference and a national-unity conference. Turning to the question of Angola, we regret to note that the refusal of UNITA to accept the result of the voting and the free choice of a sovereign people has once again plunged the country into hostilities, further complicating not only the process of democratization that had been embarked upon but also the peace negotiations which are currently taking place under the aegis of the United Nations. My delegation welcomes the adoption by the Security Council of resolutions 851 (1993) and 864 (1993) and supports recent initiatives by the King of Morocco, the President of Côte d’Ivoire and the President of the African National Congress. The agreement recently reached between the Government of Rwanda and the Rwandese Patriotic Front gives us reason to hope that an era of peace will come to that country, contributing to the strengthening of the bases of national unity. We hope that the Rwandese people, after recovering peace and unity, will be able to get down to the difficult task of rebuilding their country. Regarding the cases of Liberia, Mozambique and Western Sahara, in which my delegation fully and firmly supports initiatives of the United Nations, we call upon the parties to the conflicts to have recourse to negotiation, to dialogue and to other peaceful means in order to restore peace and security in that area. The Washington Agreement of 13 September 1993 represents a decisive turning-point towards settlement of the Palestinian problem, and it will contribute to an improvement of the situation in the Middle East. The signing of this agreement promises a new era of peace and cooperation for the peoples of that region. Nor can we fail to commend the very fortunate outcome of the situation in Cambodia, where elections, organized under the auspices of the United Nations, led to the creation of a government of national unity. Despite the involvement of the United Nations, the situation in the former Yugoslavia has not basically changed. My country supports all the initiatives taken by the United Nations - in particular, those that encourage dialogue and Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 43 negotiation - with a view to ensuring the success of the talks in Geneva. As in the past, the process of the peaceful reunification of the Korean peninsula enjoys the support of my delegation and my Government. It is very pleasing to note that considerable progress has been made in the process of disarmament and the control of armaments. Unfortunately, the danger of war has not yet been eliminated, as there still exist a number of arsenals of weapons of mass destruction - in particular, nuclear weapons. For this reason my Government will continue to appeal urgently for general and complete disarmament. Peace and development are complementary. Each depends on the other. Thus, the promotion of confidence and security, which are the prerequisites for the achievement of development targets, is becoming a new priority in Africa. Aware of this, the members of the Economic Community of Central African States, with the assistance of the United Nations, are now addressing themselves to progressive implementation of the work programme of the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, which was adopted by the General Assembly last year. That Committee, which adopted a draft non-aggression pact following its third meeting, held in Libreville, will hold its fourth meeting in Brazzaville in the Republic of Congo. This indicates the political commitment of the States of Central Africa to the creation of a system of collective security through the promotion of confidence, security and development. These actions of the States of Central Africa must be seen as part and parcel of the machinery for the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts that was set up at the most recent Summit of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), which was held in Cairo in June of this year. The international community - particularly the United Nations - should give these initiatives the support that is necessary if their noble objectives are to be accomplished. In recent years the United Nations has been working very positively on a number of fronts. Its efforts have lent it undoubted authority, especially in the settlement of conflicts and in the shaping of the new order, which mankind hopes will be more democratic and will generate prosperity for all. Nevertheless, there is now a pressing need to restructure the United Nations. This is especially true with regard to the question of enlargement of the Security Council and an increase in the number of its permanent members. Such a reform would tend to increase the effectiveness of that vital body, which is responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security. This is one of the fundamental aspects of the necessary process of democratizing international relations. The Government of the Republic of Congo attaches major importance to strengthening the role of the United Nations, as well as to increasing respect for the principles of the Charter, which is a sine qua non for the advent of a new order based on justice for all, peace, prosperity and international solidarity. I wish to take this opportunity to congratulate Ambassador Insanally on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I am confident that his great experience and wisdom will guarantee the success of this session. I wish also to pay a tribute to the President of the forty- seventh session, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Bulgaria, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for his significant achievements and his constant, unfailing commitment to the work of the Assembly. Let me pay a well-deserved tribute also to His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, a man ready to face any challenge and an ardent champion of human rights, for the masterly and enlightened way in which he is heading the Secretariat of the Organization. My country appreciates the tireless efforts of the office of the Secretary-General as it strives to keep the peace throughout the world. I take great pleasure in welcoming the States that have just become Members of the United Nations, particularly Eritrea, which by dint of courage, self-denial and sacrifice has regained its dignity and its place in the great family of independent States. The opening of a new session of the General Assembly gives us an opportunity to share our thoughts on important world events and to mark a line of collective conduct in human affairs. The most striking trend over the past few years, one which has borne fruit, is that of the protection of human rights vis-à-vis the State. This ideology of human rights and minority rights has been decisive: today, evils that had plagued the international community have disappeared or are disappearing, for example the seemingly unbridgeable ideological gap between East and West, the situation in South Africa, and the Arab-Israeli conflict. Entire regions see the possibility of releasing significant intellectual and material resources which were once devoted to preparing for conflict but which now can be used to establish genuine, welcome peace. We must hail the courage of visionary leaders who, fighting against the current, have dared to challenge those who saw security concerns as the only political wisdom and to blaze new trails for their peoples and for the world. The sight of the Chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Prime Minister of Israel signing their historic agreement in Washington, D.C., and shaking hands with each other has been for many of us a source of hope, inspiration and the will to persevere. They deserve our praise for having recognized each other and engaged in dialogue, thereby taking the first step down the long road that we must now follow to arrive at a viable and lasting peace. That courageous decision shows all those who refuse to speak save through the voices of their guns that it is still possible to break free from the grip of hatred and denial of each other’s existence.The process that has been set in motion in the search for a comprehensive and lasting settlement must of necessity be based on Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). It deserves the full political and financial support of the international community. In an equally explosive context, the white minority regime of South Africa has embarked on a process of political reform by signing an agreement for provisional power sharing with the country’s black majority. That crucial measure will have a lasting effect on the political stability, economic progress and prosperity both of that country and the entire region. This development represents a threat to the extremist and intransigent minorities, which threaten chaos and anarchy if their demands are not met. However, we are convinced that the Government of South Africa and the African National Congress, acting in a spirit of openness and compromise, will oppose any concession or half measure that might jeopardize the long march towards a multiracial and egalitarian society. In that connection, we support the appeal made by Mr. Mandela that the economic sanctions imposed upon his country be lifted to facilitate the transition to democratic rule. Unfortunately, South Africa is not the only battlefield for extremists. We must recognize that Mozambique, Somalia, Bosnia and Angola, to mention but a few, are still the victims of fratricidal conflicts. What we are witnessing is a phenomenon that was long contained and suppressed by the antagonisms that existed between the two power blocs during the cold-war period, when super-Power pressures were so great that satellite countries were often employed as intermediaries in the settlement of accounts. As a result, internal conflicts were promptly nipped in the bud. Today, the concept of two blocs is no longer valid, and conflagrations are breaking out almost everywhere. Unfortunately, the task of dealing with these hotbeds of conflict has fallen to the United Nations, and, as a result, all nations must now participate in one way or another in the activities of the Organization. We are convinced that there are other ways of halting the renewed outbreak of such conflicts than through a systematic recourse to force. Naturally, violations of international law and human values and the ever-increasing contempt for human life are of central concern to the international community. However, we must recognize that the United Nations is suffering from inadequate structures, from poor organization and from a lack of financing, as well as from a personnel shortage that renders it impotent to deal with such situations. It is therefore vitally important that the Organization be provided with the financial and human resources it needs to remedy its shortcomings. My Government believes that the United Nations should have its own volunteer rapid-deployment force under Security Council control and the command of the Secretary- General, prepared to be deployed at any time in hotbeds of tension, for we are constantly being made aware that the best method of dealing with conflicts is to prevent them. We believe in preventive diplomacy. Such a force should be trained and armed for limited and defensive actions and provided with a logistical support capable of dealing with any eventuality. However, we are aware of the difficulties such a force would face. The principle of humanitarian intervention would conflict with the notion of State sovereignty, but at the present juncture the United Nations is still the only available 'fire department,' if I may use that term. It is thus high time that its finances were put in order, even if that entailed granting it the power to seek access to other sources of financing, while reinforcing integrity and austerity through the establishment of a general inspection body. Apart from those financial questions, we believe that the United Nations system also needs reform. The Security Council should be expanded by the addition of a permanent member for each region, thus modifying the monopoly on the right of the veto. Indeed, the United Nations must be perceived as an international body that expresses the concerns of every sovereign country and in which transparency and globalization prevail. All of those questions arise each time the Organization intervenes in a given conflict. In Somalia, in Angola, in Mozambique, the Organization has suffered from its inability to mobilize the military personnel required for the scheduled period, to such an extent that its mission finds itself at a standstill. In Angola a tragic situation exists owing to the Organization’s inability to disarm the combatants. Fortunately, in Mozambique a spirit of compromise has prevailed over deadly passions. As for Somalia, the United States initiative under the auspices of the Unified Task Force has made it possible to avoid an unprecedented disaster. The United Nations experience in Somalia is far from the negative one it is casually described as being. A mission designed to ensure a safe environment and the distribution of humanitarian aid has achieved remarkable progress. Hunger exists only in a few remote areas, violence is sporadic and limited but controlled. Training centres and hospitals have been opened, and there are signs that business is beginning to pick up. Political reconciliation meetings have been held by the clan leaders in various parts of the country, and the creation of a basic political framework, the district council, is well under way. We can confidently look forward to the groundroots development of the regional council that will elect future political leaders. Somalians are participating to a greater degree in the development process of planning, identifying and setting priorities. We believe that the police services and judicial system that will soon be re-established will be capable of assuming a large part of the responsibilities for the maintenance of order and security in Somalia. As a result, we would reiterate our appeal to donors to fulfil the financial commitments they have made to the Organization, because the complete success of the United Nations Operation in Somalia II (UNOSOM II) will depend on it. Should they fail to do so, the procrastinations and failings of UNOSOM II will be a great encouragement to the so-called warlords, skilled as they are in clan violence, and destroy any chance of the development of democracy and the rule of law. We would also recall that in its initial desire to bring about the prompt restoration of political structures the Organization agreed to work with the elements that were available, which gave the Somali 'hawks' an exaggerated idea of their own importance. It is vital that such detractors be stripped of their ability to do harm, so that true democracy can be established. In our opinion, that is the only way to avoid getting stuck in a rut of passivity, as has occurred in the United Nations experience in Bosnia, where the worst violations of basic human rights have merely given rise to expressions of indignation or verbal condemnations, apart from a few resolutions that have remained a dead letter while extortions and 'ethnic cleansing' continue, in defiance of international law. In addition, the excessive delay in setting up the War Tribunal has only aggravated the morbid passivity of the international community. Nevertheless, we are hopeful that that Tribunal will soon begin to hold sessions, with the personnel, powers, funding and cooperation of Member States that will be vital to its effective operation. We are stressing this point because we deplore the policy of double standards being pursued by the United Nations, a policy that allows the criminals in Bosnia to operate with impunity while mercilessly pursuing others elsewhere in the world. This unquestionably discredits United Nations activities and exposes collective security to the insatiable appetites of aggressors and warlords of all kinds. When resolutions are adopted, the United Nations must ensure that they are respected and complied with, or 'collective security' will come to mean 'selective security'. Unfortunately, ethnic and community conflicts are not the only threats to world peace. The poverty of the countries of the third world, compounded by artificial borders inherited from the colonial era, constitutes another catalyst for conflict, because this completely misguided carve-up created territorial entities that are scarcely economically viable. These countries, once buffer States for the super-Powers, have become veritable arsenals, and, with the added element of poverty, the regimes in power thus tend to opt more often for force than for reason. In the face of so many constraints, building a prosperous and harmonious nation with a common identity and inspired by the values and principles of democracy has been a daunting challenge. Many developing countries embroiled in internal strife and turmoil have become bogged down in chaos, leading to the disintegration of the State. Hence, populations fleeing these regions invade such countries as Djibouti, which is currently groaning under the burden of 130,000 refugees, equivalent to 23 per cent of its population. We bear this immense burden nevertheless, because, in the end, the only driving force of the great global village that the world has become is interdependence. Thus, assistance to developing countries should be increased, as should the provision of skills and technology through multilateral cooperation. Furthermore, we believe that Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 43 regional economic integration is the basis for continuing progress and lasting prosperity. With the emergence of important regional economic blocs, our countries are threatened with marginalization. In the context of economic stagnation, the great hope born of the end of the cold war has gone up in smoke. We are still awaiting the extra resources that might have been allocated to development. Worse still, the commitment of developed countries to contribute 0.7 per cent of their gross national product - a modest goal set by the United Nations for development aid - has been met by only two countries. The others have barely managed to achieve 0.2 per cent at the most. Despite a difficult and sometimes chaotic situation, a number of developing countries have made substantial progress and present the necessary conditions to benefit from significant and ongoing assistance, while others are regarded as insolvent by international lending institutions. It is obvious that we desperately need increased multilateral and bilateral aid to enable us to meet our budgetary and investment needs because our private sources of investment have dwindled. To this gloomy picture we must add the misappropriation of aid or mismanagement of it. Nevertheless, many countries have committed themselves to economic reform and structural readjustment, which require increased aid, especially from the international financial institutions. My country, responding to the rapid developments taking place in international trade and navigation - the bases of our economy - has revamped its port facilities, financial services and communication networks. Anxious not to sail against what has been called the wind of democracy, we have undertaken political reforms, elections have been held and a new Constitution has been adopted defining and guaranteeing individual rights. Despite a very hostile and very unstable regional environment, Djibouti has always been an island of stability and a safe haven. The ill effects of the deep turmoil in our region have considerably weakened the Republic of Djibouti, and the deployment of enormous quantities of armaments in the region has not helped to maintain a peaceful climate and environment. Thus, the Republic of Djibouti will come to have its own share of political troubles, a natural extension of regional instability. But these troubles will be contained, because Djibouti will strengthen its nation by discouraging violence. Such are the road taken and the commitment made by the Republic of Djibouti to preserve and strengthen peace at home and throughout the world. It is with great pleasure that I extend to the President of the General Assembly the felicitations of the Pakistan delegation on his election to preside over the forty-eighth session. His diplomatic skills and wide experience, particularly in the United Nations, will be a valuable asset for the success of this important session of the Assembly. We express our appreciation and gratitude also to the previous President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for his memorable contribution in guiding the forty-seventh session of the Assembly. A special tribute is due to the Secretary-General of our organization, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dedication and dynamism. We agree with the Secretary-General that peace, development and democracy are interlinked and that 'Cooperative global integration is now an inescapable fact and requirement for all the world’s peoples.' (A/48/1, para. 13) Pakistan is happy to welcome the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Eritrea, the former Yugoslav Republic of Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 13 Macedonia, the Principality of Monaco and the Principality of Andorra as Members of our Organization. We look forward to close cooperation with them in efforts to accomplish the aims of the United Nations. To that objective, and to the noble vision of the Charter, Pakistan has been committed ever since its independence. We have throughout sought to abide by its principles, and we reaffirm our faith in their timeless validity. As in the past, so also in the future Pakistan will extend its wholehearted cooperation to all other States in common efforts aimed at realizing the ideals that inspired the establishment of the United Nations. Nearly half a century later retrospection evokes mixed feelings. The Organization’s failures and acts of omission haunt and depress; yet Members of the United Nations have much to celebrate. Some of the achievements during these decades have been monumental. Over 130 nations have emerged from the dark era of colonialism and alien domination, each bringing its unique genius to enrich world civilization, and to advance the cause of human dignity. The nightmare of a nuclear Armageddon has been averted. Weapons of mass destruction are being reduced. Ideological rivalry and confrontation have yielded to peace and cooperation. Democracy continues to triumph. People in large parts of the world have achieved economic and social progress, and better standards of living in peace and freedom. In moments of optimism, we even perceive the glimmer of a new dawn, of a more equitable and tranquil era, when power will have been civilized, when differences and disputes between States will be resolved, not through aggression or intimidation, but by peaceful means on the basis of law and justice, as they are between individuals. That vision appears tantalizingly close, yet it eludes our grasp. The world community’s progress towards peace and prosperity is both slow and meandering. We have witnessed many setbacks and reverses. At such times the vision of peace seems to recede to the far horizon. Respect for fundamental rights has been severely undermined. Some States have exhibited blatant disregard and contempt for international norms, allowing and even encouraging their forces to perpetrate barbarous acts that outrage the conscience of decent people. Instead of civility and the practice of tolerance being promoted, chauvinism and the evils of bigotry and hatred are encouraged in some countries. The consequence has been pogroms against minorities and destruction and desecration of their places of worship. The number of people in the world who have been forced to flee their homes as refugees has risen to a record level, straining the resources available for their relief. The problem of poverty has intensified. A billion people live in penury, without adequate food and shelter. For them, life is short and brutish. Manifestly, the United Nations has a long road to travel, and many old and new obstacles to overcome, before it fulfills the aims and purposes set for it in the Charter. But even as we count the multifarious challenges, we can draw some solace from recent successes. A remarkable transition has taken place in Cambodia, a transition in which the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) played a pivotal role. The commendable contribution of the Secretary General’s Special Representative, Mr. Yasushi Akashi, and his collaborators, is a source of satisfaction for the Organization and its members. Committed to the promotion of peace and stability, Pakistan is happy to have provided 1,500 personnel for UNTAC during the transition. The Declaration of Principles signed by the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel is a positive development. Implemented in good faith, it could go down in history as an important first step towards peace and coexistence in the Middle East. Vital to the realization of that aim will be respect for the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people and an equitable settlement of the outstanding issues. The status of Al-Quds-el-Sharif remains a crucial issue of interest to us in Pakistan and, indeed, to Muslims all over the world. We hope that the Declaration, evolved with the commendable contribution of Norway, and the agenda agreed between Jordan and Israel will give a fillip to the negotiations for a comprehensive peace in the Middle East, for which Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) provide an agreed and necessary basis. 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session In Afghanistan the accommodation achieved by the mujahidin leaders, and the formation of a coalition government, is reason for satisfaction. Consolidation of peace will allow the Afghan people to enjoy the fruits of their epic victory. Meanwhile, a programme for the reconstruction of this war-ravaged country needs to be launched immediately. By providing employment, it will reinforce the peace process. Pakistan is prepared to join in international efforts for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. Assistance is needed also for the million and a half Afghan refugees in Pakistan who are still unable to return to their homeland, pending the creation of conducive economic and political conditions. The political evolution in South Africa holds the welcome promise of peace and freedom for all its people. They and the world at large applaud the valiant freedom fighter and statesman, Nelson Mandela, for his sagacious leadership. Pakistan will respond positively to his proposals to bring South Africa back into the comity of nations. The formation of a pluralist, democratic Government is in sight. Pakistan looks forward to developing close and friendly relations with the new South Africa. In Somalia, too, notable progress has been made towards the restoration of law and order and the rehabilitation of its polity, though, regrettably, the process has been slow and painful. We in Pakistan are deeply grieved because our troops have suffered heavy casualties on account of the misguided acts of a Somali faction. Yet Pakistan will not abandon the United Nations Mission. Our contingent will continue to hold high the United Nations flag, assist relief operations and promote the re-establishment of peace and harmony in Somalia, for whose people we cherish abiding goodwill and fraternal affection. We welcome the progress achieved in Mozambique, Liberia and Rwanda, and hope that the relevant agreements will be implemented in letter and in spirit. The unfortunate developments in Angola must be reversed. We urge the parties concerned to seek dialogue and national reconciliation. The international community must assist these countries in restoring peace and normalcy. The optimism generated by the end of the cold war has been blighted by the colossal tragedy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A member of the United Nations has been carved up by the use of force and its people brutalized through aggression and cold-blooded genocide. Crimes against humanity have been perpetrated on a scale not seen since the Holocaust. The conscience of mankind has been outraged. Yet the community of States failed to act in defence of a small State. It has succeeded, instead, in denying the inherent right of a State to self-defence. Indeed, some of the members of the Security Council even obstructed moves to assist the victims of aggression and slaughter, knowing full well that the perpetrators of aggression were being aided and abetted by their ethnic neighbours. With their hands tied behind their backs, the Bosnians have been forced to negotiate a so-called agreement. They have been obliged to submit to a diktat in disregard of equity and even the resolutions of the Security Council. A plan that would reward aggression and legalize acquisition of territory by force cannot, and should not, win the approbation of the world community. The General Assembly can still act, even at this eleventh hour, to salvage the hope that has been invested by the people of the world in the United Nations. Its voice must rise in defence of law and justice, in order to preserve the sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina; to ensure an equitable apportionment of territory among its different ethnic components; to strengthen the United Nations force so that it can keep and enforce the peace; to protect the safe areas to provide relief against hunger and the rigour of the approaching winter; and to punish those responsible for the bestial crimes committed in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Azerbaijan is yet another victim of aggression. Armenians have occupied Azeri territory and expelled hundreds of thousands of people from their homes. We call for an end to this aggression and for the withdrawal of Armenian forces. Also, the Azeri refugees need the assistance of the world community for the relief of their suffering. The crisis in Kashmir calls for urgent action by the United Nations. India has unleashed a brutal reign of terror and repression in the occupied State in an unconscionable attempt to bludgeon the Kashmiri people into submission and to thwart their legitimate struggle for the realization of their right to decide their own future. This is, of course, an inherent right, but in the case of Kashmir it has been specifically pledged to them by Pakistan, by India and by the United Nations. It is sanctified in the resolutions of the Security Council pertaining to Kashmir. Internationally respected non-governmental human rights organizations have graphically documented the brutal crimes committed by the Indian occupation forces. Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 15 Since 1990 Amnesty International has been reporting on the massive violations of human rights in Kashmir by Indian forces, on the practice of arbitrary imprisonment, torture and killings of Kashmiris in custody, and on the perpetration of rape as a matter of policy. 'Rape is not uncommon and there is evidence of its employment as an instrument of terror', says P. M. Vandarajan, a University of Oxford lecturer, who visited Kashmir in September 1992. In his report, published by the International Federation of Human Rights, Paris, the author recalls: 'The infamous mass rape by the Indian Army at Kunan Poshpora was reported widely in the press, both in India and abroad. It is, to date, the most sickening example by far of the brutal excesses of the Security Forces against the women of the region'. It is the most sickening, but it is by no means a solitary incident. Also catalogued in the report are cases of 'disappearances' of people, and of young men who 'are tortured in Kashmir every day', and of extra-judicial, or illegal, executions, which 'are alarmingly frequent'. The very titles of the reports issued by international human rights organizations and by reputable journals depict the grave conditions in Kashmir. Headlines and titles of reports issued during 1993 include: 'Heaven on Fire', a report by Tim Gopsill on behalf of the British Parliamentary Group; 'India’s Shame', a London Sunday newspaper, 17 January 1993; 'The crackdown in Kashmir - Torture of Detainees and Assaults on the Medical Community', Asia Watch and Physicians for Human Rights; 'Extra-Judicial Executions, Rape, Arbitrary Arrests, Disappearances and other violations of Basic Human Rights by the Indian Security Forces in Indian-administered Kashmir', a report by the International Federation of Lawyers for Human Rights; 'Violations of human rights committed by the Indian security forces in Jammu and Kashmir', by the same Organization; 'Rape in Kashmir: A Crime of War', by Asia Watch and Physicians for Human Rights. The report by Asia Watch, a division of Human Rights Watch, New York and Washington, and Physicians for Human Rights, Boston, released in June 1993, concludes: 'In their efforts to crush the militant separatist movement in Kashmir, Indian government forces have systematically violated international human rights and humanitarian law. Among the worst of these violations have been the summary executions of hundreds of detainees in the custody of the security forces in Kashmir. Such killings are carried out as a matter of policy ... 'Methods of torture include severe beatings, electric shock, suspension by the feet or hands, stretching the legs apart, burning with heated objects, sexual molestation and psychological deprivation and humiliation. One common form of torture involves crushing the leg muscles with a heavy wooden roller ... Tens of thousands of Kashmiris have been killed by Indian forces in the nearly four years since India began the brutal repression in January 1990. Many more have been maimed and incapacitated. No statistics can illustrate the agony of a people or portray their anguish and pain. But they do illustrate the iron resolve of the people to recover their birthright. Now, in the fourth year, the Kashmiri struggle continues to gather internal strength. It has been established beyond doubt that the Kashmiri people have not acquiesced and will not acquiesce in Indian occupation. They have not accepted and will not accept Indian rule. India’s position on the Kashmir question, and its policy in the occupied territory, constitute a fundamental defiance of international law and morality. India claims that Jammu and Kashmir is part of India; this claim is legally and historically baseless. The future of the State remains to be determined. The resolutions of the Security Council on this question, providing for a plebiscite to decide the accession of the State to India or Pakistan, have yet to be implemented. A member of the United Nations cannot be allowed to refuse to implement a resolution of the Security Council. The resolutions in question were, moreover, accepted by Pakistan as well as India. Law does not permit a party to unilaterally renounce an international agreement. The struggle of the Kashmiri people to recover their freedom of choice is a righteous struggle for a fundamental right. It merits the support of all members of the United Nations. For Pakistan, a party to the dispute, such support is a matter of duty as well as right. The Government and people of Pakistan remain steadfast in their adherence to the Security Council resolutions and in our strong support for the Kashmiri right to self-determination. Pakistan calls upon India to fulfil its obligations under law. We request all other members of the United Nations to take appropriate action to halt the Indian violations of human rights in Kashmir and to 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session ensure the implementation of the Security Council resolutions. Recent reports testify to an alarming escalation in human rights abuses by the Indian forces in Kashmir. In order to investigate this human rights emergency, we addressed a letter to the President of the Security Council last week and reiterated our suggestion that a fact-finding mission be dispatched to Jammu and Kashmir. If India has nothing to conceal, it should accept our suggestion. Along with the resolution of conflicts, disarmament offers a real option for States, large and small, to enhance their security and expand the frontiers of regional and global peace. The end of the cold war has removed the threat of nuclear Armageddon. We welcome the agreements on the reduction of strategic arms. Even so, thousands of nuclear weapons will remain in the arsenals of the nuclear-weapon States. We hope they will act to further reduce and eventually eliminate all nuclear weapons. The Geneva Conference on Disarmament should renew its work on a programme for nuclear disarmament to be achieved within a specific time-frame. Until nuclear disarmament is realized, the non-nuclear- weapon States have the right to be assured by the nuclear- weapon States that there will be no use or threat of the use of nuclear weapons. The disappearance of the rival military blocs which relied on nuclear deterrence for security against each other should make it possible for the nuclear Powers to undertake not to use or threaten to use nuclear weapons against non-nuclear States. For over 20 years Pakistan has advocated the conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. We are therefore happy that negotiations are to open in Geneva for the conclusion of such a treaty. Pakistan will participate actively in this endeavour. We have also consistently supported a global ban on the production of fissile material which should be realized on a non-discriminatory basis. The regional approach has proved to be an effective avenue to promote nuclear non-proliferation. The concept of nuclear-weapon-free zones is finally being translated into reality. The Latin American nuclear-weapon-free zone came into force this year. Mutual arrangements for non-proliferation have also been worked out by Brazil and Argentina. The dramatic reversal in South Africa’s nuclear weapons programme has created the conditions for establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Africa. In the Middle East, too, the progress towards peace may create political momentum for non-proliferation. Unfortunately, the hopes for non-proliferation in South Asia received a serious setback when India exploded a nuclear bomb in 1974. Nevertheless, Pakistan has continued to advocate efforts to eliminate the danger of proliferation in South Asia. To that end, we have put forward several proposals. These include a South Asia nuclear-weapon-free zone; the simultaneous signature of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) by India and Pakistan; mutual verification by these countries of each other’s nuclear facilities; a bilateral nuclear-test-ban treaty; a conference with the participation of India, Pakistan, the United States, Russia and China to elaborate non-proliferation and security arrangements in our region. Regrettably, these proposals have not yet been accepted. Conventional disarmament can also be promoted most effectively in the regional context. The Geneva Conference on Disarmament should elaborate principles to promote such regional arms control and disarmament in the conventional field. The United Nations arms transfer Register has proved to be a successful experiment. Pakistan has provided the required information on its arms acquisition and sales. However, this Register may not provide a complete picture of the dangers to peace in various regions. It is only when both the transfer and the indigenous production of armaments are taken into account that a comprehensive evaluation of arms balances or imbalances can be made. To promote peace and prosperity, it is essential to facilitate rather than restrain the application of modern technology for economic and social development. The United Nations should consider preparing a comprehensive study of the impediments placed arbitrarily in the way of the application of advanced technology for the promotion of economic and social development in the developing countries. The global recession of the past few years has brought severe hardship to many of the poorest countries and especially to the poorest within these countries. The growing number of people living in absolute poverty threatens political stability in many developing countries. A comprehensive programme for development should be accorded high priority by the world community. The forces of protectionism must be resisted. The Uruguay Round must be concluded by the end of 1993. Adequate official resources should be channelled to those developing countries which are implementing far-reaching economic reform and liberalization measures. The desperate needs of Africa require urgent attention. A new flow of official assistance should be directed in particular to the Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 17 eradication of poverty, to human and social development programmes and to sustainable growth in the developing countries. The developing countries need urgently to address the inexorable and unsustainable growth in their populations. We greatly appreciate the dedication and efforts of Mr. Nafis Sadik, the indefatigable head of the United Nations Population Fund. We hope the forthcoming population Conference in Cairo will devise a comprehensive long-term strategy to meet the challenge of burgeoning populations. At the same time, the needs of the world’s children must assume priority on national and international agendas. With the collapse of the Iron Curtain, there are now no political or ideological obstacles in the way of creating a truly global economy based on the principles of the market. We hope that regional economic groupings will produce a momentum towards global economic interaction and integration, and not the reverse. Pakistan stands at the crossroads of South Asia, Central Asia, West Asia and the Gulf, and can serve as a link for mutually beneficial economic, commercial and industrial cooperation between these adjacent regions. The United Nations is the only forum where the nations of the world can concert their policies to construct the new structures for global peace and progress. The Secretary General has pointed in the right direction in his report entitled 'An Agenda for Peace'. It is essential to strengthen the mechanisms for dispute-settlement and the resolution of conflicts provided for in the Charter of the United Nations. At the same time, the Security Council must exhibit a more uniform and consistent resolve to implement its own decisions and resolutions. Only thus can the goal of collective security become a living reality. Pakistan agrees that an appropriate enlargement of the membership of the Security Council is required to enhance its representative character. Its procedures should also be made more transparent. The guiding principles for reform must be democracy and the sovereign equality of Member States. We cannot contemplate according privileged status to those countries which have a record of defying the principles of the United Nations Charter and refusing to implement the resolutions of the Security Council. The demands made on the United Nations for peace-keeping and peacemaking have increased significantly. Today there are 80,000 United Nations peace-keepers engaged in some 17 operations. Their missions are often difficult and dangerous. Yet the Members of the United Nations have to accept the risks and assist States and communities threatened by more powerful neighbours and adversaries. Pakistan is among the largest contributors to United Nations peace-keeping operations, with more than 6,000 personnel committed to United Nations operations at present. If the United Nations is to discharge its growing responsibilities, it must be assured of stable and adequate resources to finance its activities. The cost of alternatives would be immensely higher. The forty-eighth session of the General Assembly should mark a watershed - a transition from the habits of the cold war to an endeavour to construct peace and universal prosperity in a new multipolar era. To succeed in this endeavour, we shall need to arrest the dangerous proliferation of national and ethnic conflicts and disputes; establish the supremacy of human rights, democracy and freedom; prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and move towards nuclear and conventional disarmament, and arrest the forces of trade protectionism and mercantilism to foster global and sustainable development. The challenges that the Member States of the United Nations confront are imposing indeed. Yet, the opportunities for genuine peace and universal prosperity are also most promising. With goodwill and cooperation, Member States can make significant progress at this session towards the vision of peace, progress and human solidarity envisaged in the Charter. May I at the outset congratulate Ambassador Insanally on his unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. His long and rich experience makes him suitably qualified to preside over this session. I can assure him that he will enjoy the full support and cooperation of my delegation in carrying out his mission. I should also like to take this opportunity to extend to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, my heartfelt congratulations on the efficient manner in which he presided over the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session. Let me also take this opportunity to pay a special tribute, once again, to our Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the high quality of leadership he is providing to our Organization. It is encouraging to note the growing membership of the United Nations each year. It is, in the words of the Secretary-General, an explosion in United Nations member- ship. I should like to extend, on behalf of the Gambia and on my own behalf, sincere congratulations to Eritrea, the Principality of Andorra and the Principality of Monaco on their admission as Members of the United Nations. It is our fervent hope that they will not only be able to realize their national aspirations but also contribute to the positive fulfilment of mankind’s hope for a better world. It was with deep shock and sorrow that we learned of the devastating earthquake in parts of India. In this connection, I should like to convey the heartfelt condolences of the Government of the Gambia to the Government of India and the members of the bereaved families on the occasion of this catastrophe. We also commend the laudable efforts of the Government of India in coping with this massive disaster. We are meeting this year against the background of renewed hope, following the significant developments in the Middle East and South Africa. Until recently, the Middle - East crisis and the situation in South Africa posed a real threat to international peace and security. Today, however, it can be said with a high degree of certainty that in both cases the peace process is irreversible. The other notable event of major international significance has been the World Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna last June. Coming soon after the end of the cold war and 25 years after the first International Conference on Human Rights, this year’s World Conference 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session on Human Rights reflected the hopes and aspirations of teeming millions of human beings seeking new solutions, readjustments, changes and improvements to their conditions. In many ways, the World Conference on Human Rights symbolized the end of one era and the beginning of a new one with regard to the promotion and consolidation of a strong human-rights culture world-wide. For us in the Gambia, the convening of the World Conference on Human Rights was a refreshing experience, given our long-established tradition in the protection and promotion of human rights. The Conference enabled us to strengthen our resolve to continue to uphold these much- cherished values. In reviewing the outcome of the World Conference on Human Rights, my delegation is pleased with the adoption of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, which will serve as a human-rights blueprint for the next century. I would urge the Assembly to consider and approve the document. We regret, however, the failure of the Conference to agree on the setting up of the office of high commissioner for human rights. My Government continues to give its strong support to this proposal, as we are convinced that the office, if created, would facilitate greater coordination of United Nations efforts and provide a more prompt and effective response to critical cases of gross violations. The issue of human rights, however, needs to be addressed fully in all its composite parts. Political and civil rights go hand in hand with economic, social and cultural rights. Such problems as poverty, hunger, and illiteracy that have characterized developing countries constitute a serious threat to stability and respect for political rights in these countries. As my President, Sir Dawda Jawara stated at the Conference in Vienna in respect of political rights and the right to development, 'We need to remind ourselves of the indivisibility and the interdependence of both rights and the necessity of giving equal attention and urgent consideration to both'. It is saddening to note that at a time when such internationally recognized values as democracy, human rights and rule of law are becoming the order of the day almost everywhere, some seemingly intractable conflicts in other parts of the world threaten to turn back the hands of time. The situation in Somalia, which appeared to have improved only about a year ago, has suddenly deteriorated, generating cause for serious concern. My delegation is particularly alarmed by the dramatic turn of events resulting in the deaths of some members of the United Nations peace- keeping force and also of some Somalis. To the families of all these fallen servicemen and those of other innocent victims of the Somali conflict, we extend our heartfelt condolences. We very much regret these unfortunate incidents, but they should, no matter how tragic, neither dampen the enthusiasm nor weaken the resolve of the international community to assist the Somalis in their search for lasting peace and stability. Let us not forget now, in the heat of the moment, the very positive achievements of the intervention, which has made it possible to distribute food among a population that was suffering from one of the most horrendous forms of famine. In the present circumstances the need for general and complete disarmament of all factions cannot be overemphasized, and this must be pursued with renewed vigour. I should like to appeal to the United Nations and, in particular, to the United States of America and all those other countries that have agreed to send troops to Somalia to continue their assistance so that peace and security can return to this troubled land. We call on all the parties to the conflict to cooperate fully, to respect all the relevant Security Council resolutions and to implement without any further delay the Addis Ababa accord aimed at achieving national reconciliation. The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina also constitutes a major preoccupation of the international community. Recent efforts to establish a credible and lasting peace in the country have yet to bear fruit. The failure, so far, to resolve the conflict and the persistent disregard of Security Council resolutions - in particular, resolution 713 (1991) - make the situation even more desperate. The Gambia deplores the continued Serbian aggression against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It deplores the acquisition of territory by force, by means of the heinous practice of 'ethnic cleansing' and other war crimes. My delegation is firmly of the view that if the international community is unwilling or unable to protect the defenceless Muslim population against Serbian aggression, it must be given the opportunity to defend itself in accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, which recognizes that peoples must be able to exercise their right of self-defence. We welcome the establishment of an international war crimes tribunal as a fitting response to the atrocities perpetrated in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In Angola, the fighting continues with unprecedented intensity and ferocity. We condemn the naked and brutal Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993 17 aggression by UNITA against the Government and people of Angola. The people of Angola, through the democratic process - whose principles are the very ones we have been proclaiming in this Hall - have given their verdict. Their decision must be respected, and the international community should provide all necessary support for action against any force that seeks to disregard or overturn it. We therefore welcome the recent decision of the Security Council to impose sanctions on UNITA. This year - 1993 - has not been one just of conflict, turmoil and bloodshed. Very notable successes have been achieved in mankind’s search for peace, and these augur well for the future. With the conclusion of the Cotonou Peace Accord and the installation of a five-man Council of State to lead Liberia to democratic elections after six months, there is renewed hope of a peaceful and lasting solution to the Liberian conflict. We welcome the contribution of the Government of the United States of America to the United Nations Trust Fund, and we call on all other donor countries to contribute similarly so that additional peace-keeping forces may be speedily deployed in Liberia to ensure full implementation of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) peace agreement. With respect to South Africa, there are now clear indications that the peace process is on track and that change is irreversible. My delegation welcomes the agreement reached in the multi-party negotiating forum to set up a Transitional Executive Council, following agreement on the date of the first non-racial, democratic elections. In this connection, we fully support the recent appeal of the President of the African National Congress (ANC), Mr. Nelson Mandela, that sanctions be lifted. The removal of sanctions would send to all parties a strong, positive signal that the rest of the international community will not be found wanting in support and encouragement for the difficult transition to a non-racial and democratic society. However, we regret the recurrence of violence, which, if it is not addressed satisfactorily, may have serious repercussions for the transitional arrangements. We therefore call on the South African authorities to redouble their efforts to stem the rising tide of political violence. The recent breakthrough in the Middle East talks, evidenced by the deal between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) granting limited autonomy to the Palestinians in Gaza and in the city of Jericho, is a most welcome development. It constitutes a major step in the quest for a just and lasting peace in the Middle East. We extend our heartfelt congratulations to those in the leadership of the two parties for their courage and foresight in making even this limited success possible in a land often characterized by hate, mistrust and destruction. It is true that much remains to be done, but we are optimistic that the momentum generated by the Israeli-PLO agreement will be sustained and expanded to enable all parties to the conflict to strengthen their resolve in the search for a comprehensive and durable solution in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). While the recent developments between Israel and its Arab neighbours provide ground for much optimism, the situation between Kuwait and Iraq has failed to register similar progress. I call on the Government of Iraq to comply fully with United Nations resolutions and, in particular, to ensure the early release of Kuwaiti and other prisoners. We have followed with keen interest the successful conduct by the United Nations of elections in Cambodia. We congratulate the Secretary-General and his staff, as well as all the countries that helped to bring stability back to Cambodia. We hope that the lessons of this exercise will be consolidated and will be applied to other trouble spots that may require the assistance of the United Nations. The threat to world peace and stability emanates not only from armed conflicts but also from socio-economic factors. The global economic recession has led to worsening economic and social problems. Among the pressing economic difficulties that continue to face the developing countries is the problem of external debt servicing, which is one of the major obstacles to development. In sub-Saharan Africa, the debt stock has increased to $185 billion - equivalent to 110 per cent of that region’s gross domestic product. As of today, one third of Africa’s total export earning is paid to the developed countries in the North to service its debts. This situation cannot be allowed to continue. More than ever before, there is a need for a concerted and innovative international effort to find a permanent solution to the problem. It is our view that the international community - particularly the industrialized countries - has not given this problem the level of attention it deserves. While Africa’s indebtedness has continued unabated, its production output, in both agriculture and industry, has continued to decline. The combined negative effect is aggravated by serious inflation, which has contributed to a steep decline in domestic savings and investment. 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The international community’s commitment to sustainable development in Africa can best be enhanced by encouraging increased direct foreign investment, as well as an increased international transfer of financial resources to the region. This is crucial to any long-term improvement in Africa’s economic situation. I should add that the removal of unfair trade practices would go a long way towards eliminating the need for aid. This is why we are anxious to see an early conclusion of the Uruguay Round, which we hope will address the thorny issue of market access, as this is of major concern to developing countries. Finally on this issue we call on the United Nations to provide the necessary support for the successful implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and the work of the United Nations Inter-Agency Task Force on African Economic Recovery and Development. We welcome the initiative of the Japanese Government in convening the Tokyo International Conference on African Development and hope it will contribute to the mobilization of financial and technological resources much needed to ensure Africa’s development. In translating the spirit of Rio de Janeiro into action, the Gambia has already launched its Environmental Action Plan in order to address the serious environmental problems facing the country. Coming from a Sahelian country we remain particularly concerned about the continuous threat posed by drought and human actions to our fragile ecosystem. We welcome the setting up of the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee and the commencement of the negotiation process for the drawing up of an international convention to combat drought and desertification particularly in Africa. The Gambia will continue to give full support to this Committee. The success of our efforts to implement Agenda 21 and other programmes approved in Rio and adopted by the General Assembly will depend to a very large extent on the availability of funds and the commitment of our partners to share resources and encourage technology transfer to forge a truly global partnership between developed and developing countries in sustainable development. In this connection we share the view that the Global Environment Facility (GEF) should be restructured to allow for the increased participation of developing countries in all its activities as well as for inclusion of desertification as one of the areas eligible for GEF funding. It is hoped that in phase II of the GEF there will be an expanded financial base to allow for greater and more rational disbursements. It has now become established practice to convene summit meetings on issues of major concern to humanity. These summits provide an opportunity to arrive at a collective decision at the highest level on ways and means of resolving these difficulties. It is in this light that we welcome the World Conference on Population and Development and the World Summit for Social Development to be convened in 1995. As we move closer to the end of this century, so is the United Nations moving closer to its fiftieth anniversary, signalling the maturity of our thoughts and the wisdom of our actions in seeking global peace and security. As the primary role of the United Nations is the maintenance of world peace and security, it becomes imperative in this post-cold-war era to prepare the world body to carry out its mandate as stipulated in its Charter, taking into account the prevailing international political climate. In this connection my delegation notes with keen interest the restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations. We welcome efforts to streamline and rationalize the work of the General Assembly at the level of both the plenary Assembly and the Main Committees. These efforts, it is hoped, will strengthen the decision-making role of the General Assembly and enhance its effectiveness and efficiency as the largest and most important organ of the United Nations system. Furthermore, the relationship between the General Assembly and the Security Council should be redefined and better coordinated. As regards the reorganization of the Security Council, efforts should be made to ensure transparency in its work and activities. The Gambia would support any proposals for the reorganization of the Security Council on the basis of equitable geographical representation. I wish to conclude by again expressing our faith in the capacity of the United Nations, strengthened in its authority and credibility, to face the many challenges that lie ahead. The delegation of the Dominican Republic takes great pleasure in extending its warmest congratulations to Mr. Samuel Insanally on his well-merited election to preside over the General Assembly at this forty-eighth session. A man from our America - and, more specifically, from the Caribbean region, where both of our countries are located - he has the required abilities and experience successfully to guide our work at this session, which must confront and deal with the major challenges facing the international community, namely, the achievement of peace and the economic and social development of our nations. We also wish to express our appreciation to the outgoing President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the wisdom with which he led our deliberations at the previous session. I should also like to take this opportunity to extend our thanks to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his commitment and for his efforts to carry out the principles and purposes of the Organization’s Charter. Today, in our America, we are witnessing the beginnings of a negotiated solution to conflict, and we are pleased that in Central America, and particularly in El Salvador, Nicaragua and Guatemala, the disputes that have disturbed the peace and hindered the development of our peoples are now being resolved at the negotiating table. In our Island of Hispaniola, imperial and colonial rivalry divided the population into two peoples who, over the course of time, established two independent States - the Dominican Republic, which we represent here, and the Republic of Haiti. The efforts being made by the Haitian people and their leaders, with international assistance in the form of negotiations under the aegis of the United Nations and the Organization of American States, are now beginning to bear fruit and will, we trust, restore normalcy to that fraternal country with the re-establishment of constitutional order. In that connection our delegation reiterates its appeal to the international community to lend real assistance to stabilize the democratic regime and to ensure the economic reconstruction of Haiti - assistance and cooperation adequate to meet the needs of peace and employment. The Dominican Republic, in so far as it is able, remains ready to continue to cooperate with this fraternal people to lighten the heavy burden of its current problems. In this respect, we are pleased to report that the Prime Minister of the Haitian Government, Mr. Robert Malval, recently made an official visit to the Dominican Republic, with a view to fully normalizing relations between the Dominican and Haitian peoples and establishing the full spectrum of relations between the two countries, in their mutual interest. I am happy to say that the Haitian Prime Minister was given a very warm welcome by the President of the Dominican Republic, Mr. Joaquín Balaguer, who has always been interested in finding a solution to our brother country’s political conflict and especially in alleviating the serious economic situation there. As a result of the meeting, the two statesmen reached an agreement, subsequently formalized, that will ensure the speedy and constructive normalization of relations, with real reciprocal cooperation, between our two States. There is no more appropriate forum than this for me, on behalf of my country and Government, to appeal again for massive aid from the most developed nations of the Earth to that afflicted and impoverished neighbouring brother country. Since the conquest and colonization of America, the Dominican Republic has defended human rights. It was in our island, Hispaniola, that a loud voice was first raised on behalf of the rights of the indigenous inhabitants of our American lands - the voice of Brother Antón de Montesinos, in his famous Advent sermon. Faithful to that first call for the redemption of our continent, our Government honours this historical tradition, which is fully valid today in our country’s official and private practice. It has been working on instruments - which might eventually become international in nature - that will contribute to giving juridical force to that tradition. 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Our country has advocated the universality of human rights. We believe that neither geographical, economic, social, religious nor cultural differences can ever be used as a pretext for showing contempt for human rights. The Dominican delegation believes that, because of the increase in the membership of the United Nations - currently at 184 countries - there should be a more equitable representation in the Security Council, while at the same time we continue to abide by the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 23 of the United Nations Charter. Now that the bipolarity of the past has disappeared and the use and abuse of the veto are fading, the Council should become more representative of the new international reality. This should be done in broad consultations, after due reflection and with account taken of the need for equity, so that the Council can become more representative without its effectiveness being in any way mitigated or weakened. Rather, its authority and responsibility will be enhanced so that it can respond effectively to any crisis with which the international community might be confronted, as the Council has done recently. In this regard, we consider that it would be practical and feasible to give the Council greater flexibility in meeting the just aspirations of nations, such as the Republic of China, that wish to become Members of the United Nations and cooperate in carrying out its principles. I would now like to express our views on developments in the international situation, particularly on conflicts that, in one way or another, have been affecting international peace. I shall refer first to the Central American crisis, which, happily, today is on the road to a definitive solution because of the positive evolution, under the auspices of the United Nations, of the El Salvador peace agreements, and the recent return to democracy in Guatemala, which augurs well for the institutionalization of peace and prosperity in that region. Next, we would like to refer to one of the most complex and difficult conflicts facing the international community today - that is, the existence of extreme nationalism, which in some cases has led to fratricidal wars and the annihilation of large groups of people because of racial and cultural hatred. This has happened in the former Yugoslavia, where even now, despite the efforts of the United Nations and intensive diplomatic activity, blood is still being shed between brother peoples that until recently lived together under one flag. Our Government wishes to see a swift solution to the situation in the former Yugoslavia and reiterates its support for measures taken by the Security Council, in particular the establishment of an international war tribunal to pass judgement on crimes against humanity committed in some areas of the conflict. We would especially like to point to one positive development that represents perhaps our best hope for peace today: the transitional agreement between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and the Government of the State of Israel. The long-standing conflict in the Middle East engendered dangerous tension that has kept the entire world in suspense and has been regarded as the potential source of a future conflagration of incalculable destructiveness. In connection with the development to which I have just referred - the agreement between the Palestinians and the State of Israel - it might be time to defer consideration of or remove the items on that conflict that have long appeared on the General Assembly’s agenda. With this reciprocal exchange of olive branches of peace, we can see the promise of harmony between peoples that have been living in such uneasy proximity. We must recognize how the persistent diplomacy of the United States contributed to securing the results that have been achieved. The United States considered the situation with a view to deciding what was possible in relations between the Arab and Jewish peoples. The agreement culminated in the signing at the White House in Washington. In our opinion, that demonstrated unequivocally and very clearly to international public opinion the sincerity of the parties, who were fully aware of the extreme importance of the commitments into which they were entering. We must constantly stress the importance of the environment. After economic crisis and the imbalance between North and South, the major challenge facing mankind is the environmental crisis. The gradual destruction of ecosystems and the deteriorating quality of life of human beings are unavoidable aspects of everyday existence for the peoples of the world. Thus, it is essential that the course of events be changed. The political will of Governments and of all those who participate in organized civilian society will be necessary to our taking up this great challenge, which will involve commitment on the part of everyone - a commitment from all mankind. In that connection, the Dominican Republic supports the general outline of the Plan of Action that was adopted at the summit Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. Here we have a valuable instrument for political programming and regional cooperation to protect the environment in Latin America and the Caribbean. The latter part of the twentieth century has witnessed major changes in world political affairs, ranging from the end of the cold war to democratization in the countries of Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 19 Eastern Europe.Despite this ideological thaw, however, we still have arms trafficking and nuclear arsenals and, therefore, a serious threat to peace. Let me refer once again to the situation in the Korean peninsula and mention specifically North Korea, which is continuing its nuclear research and investing enormous resources in this undertaking. Let us invite the Government of North Korea to become a party to the universal agreements on the control of nuclear weapons. Let us invite it to cooperate transparently and effectively with the International Atomic Energy Agency in that body’s important task of inspecting and monitoring nuclear facilities. Willingness to do so would constitute evidence of that Government’s respect for its own nation and of its concern for the future of its people and of all mankind. We support United Nations measures to put an end to arms trafficking. We support efforts to ensure transparency in military expenditures so that military activity may be made more predictable, and peace and international security, at the regional and world levels, strengthened. Let me now turn to two important issues that are still on the agenda of this Assembly. May I, first, draw the attention of the international community, as represented here, to the positive developments in the area of drug trafficking, which are due to the success of many measures aimed at combating and eradicating what has for too long been one of the most ominous scourges of mankind. None the less, we must redouble our efforts to ensure that measures are implemented both internally and internationally and result from coordinated policies of all the nations represented here today. The Dominican Republic has just become a party to the 1988 United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and the 1972 Protocol Amending the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961, bringing itself up to date on international legislation in order the better to play its role in collaborating with other States and agencies. The other issue to which I wish to refer is the economic crisis affecting most countries of the world. Today, the phenomenon of globalization of the economy and integration of regional blocs is typical of the international situation, which is evolving so rapidly that countries such as mine can no longer put off negotiations to determine their participation in multilateral free-trade agreements, customs unions or regional markets. In this connection, the international activities of the Dominican Republic focus on the economic programmes of countries in our region and regional organizations that can help in our development and in our enjoyment of technical and financial cooperation. The implementation of appropriate domestic policies by our Government will ensure that trade and investment will become the ideal means to strengthen bilateral relations, underpinned, of course, by the unilateral granting of trade benefits under the Caribbean Basin Initiative and by the opening up of our market under the Americas Initiative. In the new international order, another of the major challenges that the Dominican Republic must face is the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and its possible implications; we understand that NAFTA, as a theoretical possible outcome, would imply an effort towards the complete liberalization of trade throughout the hemisphere. I should like to emphasize the Dominican Republic’s strong support for holding a World Summit for Social Development to take up matters relating to the social situation in the world, particularly that of women, young people, the elderly, the handicapped and families. The Summit will have to deliver a clear undertaking for common policies to defend and protect these important segments of the world’s population collectively, and we hope that many of our countries will take measures to extend coverage and protection for these social sectors, especially for children and the elderly. We should like to draw to members’ attention a subject of serious concern to my Government and country, and that has complex and serious ramifications that will be brought before the appropriate forums during the forty-eighth General Assembly session. This is the Secretary-General’s proposal to merge the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women (INSTRAW) with the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM). Theoretically, the General Assembly will study this proposal in November. My Government attaches the greatest importance to this decision, and requests this world forum to give it its closest attention in order to avoid committing a grave injustice by taking hasty action or the like. INSTRAW was conceived at the First World Conference on Women, held in Mexico City in 1975, and was established as the result of a series of resolutions, including, we should like to recall, Economic and Social 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Council resolution 1979/11 of 9 May 1979. This resolution specified clearly that the permanent headquarters of the Institute was to be my country, the Dominican Republic, a developing country. Moreover, my Government gave the United Nations the building that is being used as the Institute’s headquarters. Not only that, it had to make significant investments in terms of money and other resources in order to overhaul the building to bring it up to the specifications required by the Organization. We request the Secretary-General to postpone any action leading to merger between INSTRAW and UNIFEM until such time as the General Assembly considers his proposal and comes to its own conclusions on the matter. Also, it would seem that there is an attempt being made to ignore, unilaterally, the Agreement between the United Nations and the host Government that is the legal framework within which INSTRAW operates. My Government regards this as a serious - an extremely serious - impropriety, and reserves the right to use all relevant legal means to assert its legitimate rights. Finally, the delegation I lead calls upon the consciences of all nations and on all those leaders who bear upon their shoulders responsibility for the destiny of their countries and the world, for peace, common sense and mutual respect to prevail over violence and for there to be cooperation and solidarity between peoples; for these are the supreme purposes of this Organization. Last year, my Head of State, Captain Valentine E. M. Strasser, acquainted this body with the devastation visited on Sierra Leone as the result of the civil war in Liberia. He described to this Assembly the pain and agony that Sierra Leoneans have had to endure as a result of that conflict, and the ramifications it portended for regional peace and security. Regrettably, I am constrained to inform this body, not only that the war in Sierra Leone has persisted, but that the lives of many innocent Sierra Leoneans have continued to be lost. What we are witnessing today is the internal 40 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session displacement of more than 400,000 Sierra Leoneans and more than 250,000 others who have had to seek refugee status in neighbouring countries, not to mention the devastation caused to the national economy. Thus, with our territory devastated and our economy nearly destroyed, it is understandable that my country is so anxious that peace should return to Liberia. Without peace, Sierra Leoneans cannot embark on the economic reconstruction of their country. Sierra Leoneans are also hopeful that if peace should return, we can start picking up the pieces of what is left of our country and get on with our lives, and that the massive diversion of our resources to prosecute a rebel war will no longer be necessary. It is also our hope that with the conflict behind us, the Government of the National Provisional Ruling Council will be able to give its undivided attention to the essential task of nation- building. We therefore renew our appeal, from this rostrum, for timely humanitarian assistance for the hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who have been displaced and made refugees, for it is only with such help that they can start their lives anew. The socio-economic assistance of this Organization will also be necessary for our post-war reconstruction and rehabilitation efforts. Our cri du coeur is for the international community to provide the requisite support and assistance for a country desperately in need, through no fault of its own; a country that has acted as its brother’s keeper, in the true meaning of that expression, and on behalf of the international community to bring an end to bloodshed and help restore law and order in Liberia. It is, therefore, our hope that the latest Cotonou Agreement on that conflict will continue to pave the path to peace in Liberia. It was my Government’s expectation that by now, with the assistance of the Security Council, there would have been a rapid establishment and deployment of the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia (UNOMIL) and also meaningful support for the Trust Fund established by the Secretary-General for the continued engagement of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Military Observer Group (ECOMOG) in Liberia. Part of that peace plan calls for the establishment of a buffer zone along our borders to prevent the infiltration into our territory of men and matériel from Liberia. In the name of regional peace and security, we call on this Organization to give its full support to our request. International help for ECOMOG is particularly necessary when one considers that for the past two years, West African countries have been shouldering the burden of maintaining peace in Liberia without much outside help, in spite of the enormous problems facing them individually and collectively. In a region which contains 10 of the least developed and poorest nations, it is obvious that sooner, rather than later, the West African subregion will not be able to continue with the ECOMOG burden without such outside help. I would like to issue a note of warning here: the Cotonou Agreement, in our view, offers the last chance to bring peace to Liberia. If it should fail, we fear that that country might become another Somalia. Hence, the support of the United Nations remains indispensable. We therefore hope that Member States will contribute, and contribute generously, to the Trust Fund. Doing so would save lives. Before continuing with my line of thought, on behalf of the Sierra Leone delegation and on my own behalf, I should like to convey warm greetings to Ambassador Insanally on his unanimous election to preside over our deliberations during the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. It is also fitting that I express my delegation’s sincere appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, his predecessor, for the able manner in which he executed his task and for his personal exertions in the advancement of the noble objectives of our Organization. Our distinguished Secretary-General has, stoically and with dedication and determination, continued his yeoman’s service on behalf of us all. We congratulate him warmly on his latest report. I should also like to extend the best wishes of the Government and the people of Sierra Leone to the friendly Governments and peoples of those countries that have joined us in this Assembly as full Member States. We have no doubt that their admission has not only enhanced the goal of universality; with their new energies they will effectively contribute to our quest for a more peaceful world. We believe that our Organization is at a crossroad, that what we say and commit ourselves to during this session will have serious implications on the shape of things to come, and that the rebirth of this Organization will require learning from the lessons of the recent past and adjusting our vision for the future. Sierra Leone had sincerely hoped that the end of the cold war era would usher in a golden millennium of peace and prosperity for all. Unfortunately, however, we have witnessed a series of situations all over the world that have Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 41 given rise to a more violent and insecure international environment. We are faced with conflicts and misery that have adversely influenced the lives of vast sectors of humanity, and we now feel an even deeper sense of helplessness and despair that makes us almost nostalgic for the order and logic of bygone days. But nostalgia has no purpose if it serves only to pander to escapism, without using the lessons of the past to guide our future courses of action. Let me now turn to an issue that continues to deeply concern us all, namely, peace-keeping. The principle and efficiency of peace-keeping are not in question, but already expenditures for peace-keeping have several times over outstripped the Organization’s regular budget. More troubling is the prospect that such expenditures will soon exceed resources committed to development since the establishment of the United Nations. We sincerely believe that the time has come when more attention should be given to conflict prevention and resolution.It would serve our purpose much better and cost this Organization much less if conflicts were contained and resolved before reaching the point of open hostilities, when situations are more difficult to control. We can catalogue a series of lost opportunities of which one glaring example is the Liberian conflict. Let us, from this point forward, give more attention to the prevention of conflict rather than having to field troops in various theatres of war at exorbitant cost. Recent events have proved that we cannot afford to risk the lives of our men in the field in situations that could have been prevented. Let me reiterate Sierra Leone’s firm conviction and commitment to the peace-keeping operations that are now taking place throughout the world. We deplore the acts of those who have made peace-keepers objects of their violence, and we salute the gallant men and women who are acting on behalf of us all. However, our perseverance in the pursuit of global peace and in peace-keeping will not reap the desired harvest if the present proliferation of arms and ammunition to theatres of conflict continues. As we all are aware, many third world countries where military conflicts are raging today do not manufacture arms. On the other hand, they continue to be the recipients of some of the deadliest weapons. Such weapons, when supplied to the contending factions, be they rebels or others, have as their main victims innocent civilians. Today, we are witnessing carnage and loss of human life, as a result of the use of weapons acquired by various rebel movements in Africa from arms manufacturers over the years. It therefore becomes obvious that, if we are to put a stop to such blood-letting and human carnage, further stringent measures must be imposed on the sale and proliferation of arms and ammunition. In our view, into this category falls the proliferation and ever-increasing use of mines and other explosive devices in the third world which have taken a heavy toll in human life, especially innocent civilians. Many civilians continue to die because of the indiscriminate manner in which these mines have been planted and used by rebel forces ever since they were acquired from unknown sources. We therefore welcome the initiative taken by the European Community to inscribe an item on the agenda of this session of the Assembly to address such issues. We believe that the support of the international community is indispensable to dealing with the disastrous consequences of the presence of such mines. While still on the issue of conflicts, we wish to reiterate our support for the recently concluded International Conference for the Protection of War Victims and its recommendations. We are firmly convinced that humanitarian law must be made completely universal, widely known and fully respected, and must be extended to fully cover non-international conflicts. My delegation continues to watch with interest the political developments gaining momentum in South Africa. Yet, much as the ongoing negotiations offer hope for a resolution of this problem, we are deeply saddened that the continuing violence, directed especially against innocent people - the majority of whom are blacks - goes on undiminished. Violence, in whatever form, is an abhorrence, but its pursuit by unscrupulous groups and individuals to reap political capital, at a time when patience, courage, commitment and tolerance are required, can only give us all cause for concern. We therefore wish to appeal to all, regardless of affiliation, to exercise forbearance and to renounce the use of violence. But, more so, we call on all Governments and political leaders to use their influence with their supporters to prevail upon them not to threaten the democratization process and to work constructively for a better South Africa. This appeal goes also to all emerging democracies. Now that the goal of majority rule is in sight, it is time for blacks, who have for long suffered under the odious system of apartheid, to close their ranks in solid unity so that, together, they may be able to let the new South Africa create an impact on the international scene, for their own benefit and the benefit of all South Africans. 42 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session We appeal to black South Africans to forge greater unity and to be conscious of their responsibility to disprove the assertion of the apologists for apartheid that blacks are incapable of ruling themselves. For it is only when they act in unison and stop the violence that they will be able to enjoy the fruits of their freedom struggle, which they have endured for so long and are, at last, about to win. Sierra Leone has for many years supported a comprehensive solution to the Middle East conflict, based on Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). We see the recent mutual recognition of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel as an extremely positive step towards the full restoration of peace in the Middle East. We also encourage all the parties to the ongoing negotiations concerning other facets of the Middle East problem to demonstrate the same spirit of accommodation in the interests of their own people, who for decades have known nothing but strife, conflict, suffering and hatred, and in the interests of peace and of mankind as a whole. Sierra Leone supports the territorial integrity of Kuwait. I would now like to turn to another important matter in this Organization: that is the functioning of the Security Council. Undoubtedly, just as a growing number of nations continue to encourage greater participation by their citizens in the attainment of the ends of the State, so must this national awareness of the need for political harmony and justice be a paradigm instructive to the Security Council, which, as the primary organ responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security, should be perceived as legitimate in its decision-making process and, thus, should embrace the views of a wider section of the international community. It is necessary at this juncture to express our concerns - concerns that are shared by many small States Members of this Organization - regarding the willingness of the international community, but more so its major players, to ensure respect for the principles enshrined in our Charter. It is clear that the time has come to articulate the normative values that are to be pursued in guaranteeing the security of those who are not in a position to undertake their own defence and to reassure them that their reliance on the United Nations as the guarantor of their sovereignty against violations by stronger nations has not been misplaced. The failure to halt aggression in some recent cases has seriously undermined the foundations of the common security arrangement that the end of the cold-war presaged. The repeated indecision with which aggression in different parts of the world has been confronted has set a dangerous precedent by undermining the confidence of small nations in the Organization’s protective capacity and by encouraging automatic resort to self-defence, with a concomitant increase in arms build-up. It also goes some way to assuaging the residual fears that perpetrators of massive violations of human rights, even genocide, may have had that their despicable actions will somehow be met with purpose and resolve by the international community. In the coming days, there must be a firm, unequivocal, timely and balanced response from the international community to threats to and breaches of international peace and security if the Bosnian experience is not to become a feature of relations between States. It is undesirable to allow the view to prevail that the international community is more disposed to act forcefully in certain instances than in others. It is in this vein that we must express our concern over the apparent deterioration of the security situation in Somalia. We express the belief that, despite the provocation, a distinction must continue to be made between the Somali people, the warlords and gunmen. We firmly reject those who want to impose tyranny on the Somali people, and we express our heartfelt condolences to the families of those gallant peace-keepers who have fallen while on duty in Somalia. The World Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna in June this year was a landmark event which was able to overcome the numerous challenges that it faced. That Conference addressed, inter alia, such fundamental human rights as the rights of women and children and reaffirmed the universality of human rights and the legitimate role of the international community in protecting these rights worldwide. It also reaffirmed the importance of economic, social and cultural rights and the right to development, and it adopted several practical steps to promote and protect human rights in both private and public life. The challenge now facing us is to implement the recommendations of that Conference. We would not like to reopen the debate regarding human rights standards. The United Nations established those standards more than 40 years ago. What is important is that human rights should remain universal and non-selective. Human beings all over the world, irrespective of their race, religion, gender or class, must enjoy equal rights and protection. Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 43 We see the re-emergence of racism and ethnic conflict at its genocidal worst today in various parts of the world. The United Nations must assume a much stronger role in trying to prevent and minimize the suffering caused to people who are subjected to the pain and intimidation of this dark display of man’s inhumanity to man. Regrettably, in many lands today, on every continent and among peoples of every race, colour, language and religion, conflicts erupt in unspeakable violence. As has been observed, ethnic tensions have become the racial fault line in widely diverse societies all over the globe - the advanced, the developing, the relatively stable and the unstable alike. We must redouble our efforts and guard against such dangers. Sierra Leone continues to be concerned by the problem of refugees and displaced persons, particularly as we ourselves have become victims of such a phenomenon. Apart from the effort to prevent and avert the flow of refugees, if our people are to be able to return to their communities, remain there and rebuild their lives they must have what the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees calls 'emergency development funds' to meet their basic needs in the areas of health care, education and employment. While acknowledging the generosity that the international community has shown in the past in respect of refugees worldwide, we appeal to that community in general, and to the major donors in particular, not to give in to 'aid fatigue' but to meet the urgent and felt needs of their brethren and sisters, many of whom have found themselves refugees overnight through no fault of their own. Sierra Leone therefore urges the international community to look at these ever-present challenges: how to assist uprooted people, particularly in the context of conflict and grinding poverty; how to enable the displaced to return home in safety and dignity and rebuild their lives; and how to prevent and solve refugee problems. However, while providing help and assistance to mitigate the refugee problem, we remain convinced that unless and until the international community can overcome the scourge of poverty, that problem will remain insoluble and be constantly with us. It is therefore our fervent hope that, even at this late hour, renewed impetus will once again be found to prevent and eradicate this condition of human misery. The necessity of guaranteeing the foundation of a common security evidently goes beyond the reduction or elimination of military conflicts and embraces human security as a whole. Indeed, the fortunes of many a society will hinge on this, as in many developing countries the root cause of political and social upheaval or military conflict remains grinding poverty. Without the eradication of this scourge, the prospect for human development will remain bleak. Regrettably, for many of our countries in Africa, especially the least developed among us, two years after the adoption of the New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s our experience has been one of disappointment and frustration. Even though most African countries have carried out the structural adjustment programmes and put in place democratic structures, the development partnership promised by the New Agenda has not been forthcoming. With few exceptions, the resources necessary to get the New Agenda implemented have not been made available. Today poverty and underdevelopment continue to plague countries like mine in sub-Saharan Africa despite the commendable efforts of this Organization to solve some of these palpable problems. It is a matter of regret that the new world order seems to have relegated the economic and developmental needs and problems of Africa to the lower rungs on its list of priorities. The New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s is failing because of a lack of funding and support from the international community. The implementation of this New Agenda requires the full participation of the international community, especially donor Governments and organizations and programmes of the United Nations system. It is therefore of the utmost importance and urgency that economic, technical and development assistance be provided to Africa by the international community, which unfortunately has not responded sufficiently to our needs. We therefore call on our partners in development to give us all the support necessary to make the reforms that we have carried out successful and the sacrifices we have made not a mere waste of time. Our present situation also underscores an urgent need for support for the effective functioning of the proposed African Economic Community, which is designed to enhance economic integration and cooperation in Africa. Financial and technical assistance must be provided to African regional and subregional organizations for them to be able to overcome the socio-economic challenges facing them. We fully accept that responsibility for Africa’s development rests with us Africans, but it is obvious that for us to be able to achieve and sustain the goal of development, particularly in the face of all the obstacles against us, including highly unfavourable terms of trade, we must receive much stronger support from the international community. With such support, the vast potential of the continent will be properly utilized so that we do not miss yet again an opportunity to provide a catalyst for Africa’s meaningful contribution to the 44 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session growing global economy from which we all must benefit. It is for this reason that we look forward to the forthcoming Tokyo International Conference on African Development, which should provide yet another opportunity for committed international support for Africa’s development efforts. We also look forward to a balanced and successful outcome of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations and an expansion of world trade, improved commodity pricing, greater market access and non-restrictive trade practices that will work for the benefit of all countries, especially those in the process of development. The trauma that many African societies are experiencing daily in the fight against poverty, malnutrition and disease must not be allowed to become a way of life. The improvement of our people’s lot is as much to be realized through aid flows as it is to be guaranteed by long-term measures aimed at addressing the heavy debt burden, discriminatory trade practices and depressed commodity prices from which so many of us suffer. We in Africa would dearly love to be able to lift ourselves by our own bootstraps but we cannot do so when our bootstraps are firmly in the hands of others. We face a most painful dilemma, wherein we find ourselves in a position from which we presently seem unable to influence the forces that shape our destinies. But the problems we encounter as developing countries should not deter us from forging ahead to find new ways to development and prosperity. The experience gained by such countries as Singapore, the Republic of Korea, Thailand and other South-East Asian countries clearly shows that success can be gained in the long run where there is sacrifice, determination and hard work. This notwithstanding, Africa’s underdevelopment remains unique, and unless the international community applies creative and effective comprehensive measures, such as debt-for-development swaps and other debt relief measures, the solution to Africa’s economic crisis, particularly for countries in the least developed category, will continue to be illusory. In a world where the gap between the rich and the poor countries is growing wider every day, the need for economic and technical cooperation between developing countries cannot be overstated. With regard to the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED), we welcome the establishment of the Commission on Sustainable Development as a functional Commission of the Economic and Social Council. What now remains to be put in place is the practical implementation of the Commission’s mandate to ensure the effective follow-up of UNCED. Sierra Leone welcomes the decision to convene a Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States in April 1994. At the recent United Nations Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, the plight of many coastal States, including mine, was highlighted regarding the lack of an effective monitoring, control and surveillance system that can be maintained on a sustained basis in the face of the continuing indiscriminate advance of certain distant-water fishing nations, some of which not only fish the straddling stocks outside the jurisdiction area, but enter and violate the territorial rights of our countries. Even the fleets of those nations which obtain relevant licenses to fish do not declare the correct catches for reliable data records. Consequently, the true state of exploitation of the stocks within the national jurisdiction of most of our countries is not accurately known, and so Sierra Leone, despite its location in one of the most fertile areas in terms of marine living resources, realizes only a miniscule amount from these resources as a result of the activities of the distant-water fleets. This present state of affairs is certainly untenable and should not remain unchecked. The exploitation of our meagre resources by larger nations and bodies taking advantage of our technological weaknesses can only worsen our economic situation. These wanton fishing practices also threaten to deplete the fishing grounds of our nations and to become great environmental hazards. I therefore wish to reiterate the support expressed by the Sierra Leone delegation for the conclusions of that Conference, which we hope will bring about a radical change in the present exploitation of our marine resources. I hope our experts will soon be able to sit down with experts of the United Nations to work out modalities that will ensure the equitable and judicious exploitation of our marine resources. Looking back at the progress accomplished by mankind over the past few decades of its quest for peace, security and social progress, we have to admit that the results achieved have been mixed. A few years ago, for example, the world watched with hope and expectation as nations and societies were infused with a new energy which held out the promise of a new, dynamic era in which our societies would at last realize the potential for peace and the global environment would be transformed for the better. Then, many of us were convinced that, if history had taught us anything, it had impressed on us that this journey’s success could not endure Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 45 unless we divested ourselves of the old flawed and discredited formulae in which the age behind us had been embedded. It was our hope that, phoenix-like, we would rise from the ashes of unfulfilled dreams and start on a journey towards the fulfilment of our aspirations to a golden age. Today, some way into that journey, we have begun to wonder whether that dream was not a mirage, whether the new reality on which so much depends will be shaped with the good will and cooperation of all nations, big and small alike. In the past, many of us called for the emerging order to be nurtured and shaped by the joint will of the international community as a whole, mindful as we were of the need to anchor this new direction on principles we all believed in and subscribed to. We are still of that view. Yet, though the recent months have witnessed a process of revitalization in the Organization’s responsibilities for crisis management and its larger engagement with the maintenance of international peace and security, we are increasingly concerned about emerging trends that may not augur well for the global political and socio-economic transformation we all anticipate. The assurance of international security cannot succeed for long unless we are able, as an Organization, to forge international consensus among all Members on measures that are of primary importance to us all. New energy should impel us to find the source of today’s problems, so as to mitigate the disastrous conditions under which a large segment of mankind continues to live. New impetus should be given to breaking the constraints that for so long kept us from gaining access to those in need and finding solutions to their problems. It is our fervent hope that all of us, with new vision and commitment, will accomplish these goals so that we may attain the new world order that was conceived within the parameters of the ideals of this Organization. Twenty years ago the Bahamas took its seat as the 138th Member in this Assembly of the United Nations, and we proudly assumed the solemn obligations and responsibilities conferred by the Charter. This session marks our twentieth anniversary, which we celebrate with our friends of the now reunited Germany with whom we were admitted. As we reflect on the global events of those two decades, we see a world significantly transformed. Where there was a single Soviet Union and a single Yugoslav Republic, we now have the Commonwealth of Independent States and the Baltic States. In addition, the admission of many new States to this great Organization has resulted in an almost complete universality of membership. It is therefore with much joy that we warmly welcome all new Members and extend to each the fraternal hand of friendship and partnership in the continued struggle for human dignity and development. The Bahamas has also witnessed significant national development since its membership. Today we are one of the most stable and democratic societies. We are proud of this achievement, and we encourage all those who would to 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session follow our example of freedom, justice and peace, buttressed by sound principles of human and national development. We have yet another reason for celebration. Your unanimous election to the presidency of this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, Sir, is an historic occasion not only for you personally and for your great country but also for every Caribbean Government and person. Bahamians, together with all Caribbean peoples, therefore pay high tribute to you and to your country. We are fully conscious of your impeccable and enviable credentials as a diplomat, and we are satisfied that those same skills will serve to guide us through this session, despite its challenges, to successful and lasting results. Permit me also to pay high tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, for his outstanding contributions to the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. His presidency witnessed significant achievements and today we are the beneficiaries of his visionary leadership. While we who are privileged to represent our Governments have the luxury of pronouncing international policies, the Secretary-General enjoys no such luxury. His is the responsibility of going beyond the rhetoric to the substance of the many resolutions and decisions which we adopt in this Assembly each year. His task is therefore dauntingly complex. Nevertheless, he has borne his enormous responsibilities with great dignity and high distinction. In this connection, we cannot help but recall the biblical injunction: 'Out of Egypt have I called my Son'. (The Holy Bible, Matthew 2:15) Like his predecessor, he has performed beyond our expectations, and is deserving of our praise for his proficiency in assisting this Organization in shaping contemporary history so dramatically. At this juncture I wish to take this opportunity to extend the deepest sympathy of the Government and the people of the Bahamas to the people and the Government of India, who suffered such tragic loss of life and property during the recent devastating earthquake, and to reaffirm our solidarity with them during this time of national disaster. It would be very easy for me on behalf of my Government and country to rehearse the developments of the past year and offer the members of the Assembly some observations. However, we believe that a focus on the future is more timely. As we near the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization, it is the view of the Bahamas that that significant turning- point should be seized as an opportunity to assess where we are and what is required to move further ahead in the fulfilment of the principles of the Charter, so that the forthcoming anniversary will indeed be cause for celebration. In reflecting on what is required to move ahead, we invite all Member States to focus with us on how each one of us, given our varied capacities, can assist the Organization in moving closer to the full achievement of the principles enshrined in the Charter. There is no question that the United Nations, in its often unappreciated role in the promotion of such objectives as international cooperation and respect for human rights, has been vindicated in this approach by successes far beyond expectations. In the political sphere, such successes include the fostering of a shift to democracy in Eastern Europe; the dramatic reduction, through voluntary destruction, of nuclear weapons; the Mission of the Organization of American States (OAS) and United Nations in Haiti; the establishment of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991; the establishment of the Transitional Executive Council in South Africa; the very recent signing of the historic peace accord between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), as well as the Declaration of Principles between Israel and Jordan; and the repelling of aggression and the restoration of sovereignty in Kuwait. In this context, the Security Council resolution that determines the Kuwaiti boundary must be respected. In addressing the hurdles which must be overcome before lasting solutions are achieved, we believe that more emphasis should also be placed on the expanded economic, social and military role of the United Nations. That role is demonstrated by the peace-keeping forces dispatched globally and by the recent successful Conferences on Environment and Development and Human Rights, as well as by the forthcoming conferences on women, population and development, the Summit for Social Development and, most importantly for the Bahamas, the forthcoming Conference on Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, scheduled to be held at Barbados in 1994. The Bahamas places particular emphasis on the role of the United Nations in the economic and social fields and fully expects that the revitalized United Nations will provide an enhanced capacity for the Organization to perform that Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 7 important role. It is in this context, therefore, that we support the efforts of the Secretary-General to restructure the Organization in the economic and social fields. As members are aware, success invariably brings greater responsibilities and challenges. Indeed, these greater responsibilities, challenges, and even attendant impediments, have regrettably already begun to sour the excitement of the many achievements attained. But we must not let this reverse side of success debilitate us. We must remain focused so that narrower vested interests do not hinder the achievement of goals set in the wider interest. We must permit no circumstance to impede the earliest cessation of the atrocities of war for a return to peaceful settlement of disputes. We must be sensitive to and respond practically, in the spirit of the Charter, to national needs, pressures and civil unrest. The call for regional action in the settlement of disputes and peace-keeping will also need to be further emphasized as we seek to maintain the integrity of the Organization. In this connection, we particularly underscore the need for the fullest support of the implementation of the Governors Island Accord on the restoration of democracy in Haiti, not only on the basis of unrelenting moral pressure but, equally, through material and technical assistance towards fostering the economic revitalization and enduring health of that country’s democratic institutions. While the unpleasant spectacle of politics through conflict has reasserted itself at the centre of the world stage, regrettably, politics has two companions, which often influence it, though rarely gaining the same degree and magnitude of attention given to politics. These two companions are economic and social tensions. We must ever be vigilant of these two, often unruly companions. Again, we must find our focus in the purposes and principles of the Charter. Against that background, there are several questions I feel must be put as part of the deliberations we will undertake during this session. First, is the peace dividend releasing adequate resources and civilian expertise to impact developmental needs? Secondly, should life after self-determination for the newer members of the international community provoke stagnant growth in those less-recently sovereign? Thirdly, is there sufficient retraining and assistance to ensure that the trade liberalization facilitated by megablocs promotes fair, democratic and transparent institutional strengthening and the widest empowerment? And, lastly, how do we ensure that environmental awareness, as a catalyst for a better quality of life globally, does not become yet another trade conditionality? These questions are being posed because, if they are neglected or inadequately addressed, the new world order will be but a shifting of power centres and a spawning of new seeds of international economic, social and political instability. In many countries, including the Bahamas, social tensions are reordering national priorities. We must return to basics in dealing with problems of a pandemic nature, such as poverty, illicit drugs, crime, violence, international terrorism, human rights violations and disease, especially the urgent necessity for dealing with the devastations caused by acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). Throughout this global village our Member States are facing the disintegration of the traditional family values, coupled with rampant unemployment. We must re-emphasize those spiritual values which respect life, the dignity and worth of the human person and his or her importance to national life and development. In order that our peoples will avoid hopelessness and survive the adverse effects of economic decline, we must share more directly the burden of action for solutions with those community institutions and social partners which are the teachers and the examples of positive spiritual and moral values. Fundamentally, the Bahamas remains morally persuaded of, and financially committed to, the goals and worth of the United Nations. To underscore this commitment, The Bahamas has recently deposited instruments of accession to international agreements in some of the priority areas on the United Nations agenda, including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, The International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, and we shall shortly sign the chemical weapons Convention. In reality, the approaches and solutions found in these Conventions have long been traditional Bahamian policy and practice. Despite a 100 per cent increase in the regular budget assessment for the Bahamas over the past five years, we remain unwavering in our acceptance of the necessary sharing of the financial burden in order that this Organization may achieve its objectives. On the other hand, 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session the Bahamas wishes to have consideration given to the level of its assessment, and in that process we shall be submitting evidence that our reputed comparatively high per capita income not only masks the true indigenous per capita income situation, but also belies the increasing demands arising from the development needs of our widely scattered archipelago. We submit that, given these circumstances, there ought to be some mitigation available to the Bahamas, given these circumstances. The Bahamas is very cognizant that we remain one of the few cases of comparative political tranquillity and unassailed natural beauty. Our commitment to the maintenance of national unity and the preservation of the environment is unwavering. We therefore believe that the Bahamas is ideally suited as a propitious setting for difficult negotiations, and we offer the Organization our facilities, which, we are convinced, will enhance the conduct of such affairs. We further pledge our commitment to contribute, to the extent possible, to making operational the Secretary-General’s 'Agenda for Peace' and Papua New Guinea’s proposed agenda for development. We see these agenda items as practical approaches to dealing with problem-solving for conflict resolution, peace-keeping and post-conflict peace-building, and poverty alleviation. As we approach the fiftieth year of our Organization’s existence, to ensure even better years ahead our watchwords should be 'perspective' and 'purpose': perspective in not losing sight of the goals of our founding fathers, who emphasized the primacy of people in the preamble to our Charter; and purpose in recognizing and accepting that the means for, and the road to, the end of international disorder and insecurity must begin with the individual. Our initially separate personal attitudes, motives and actions ultimately determine whether there will be an international climate for peace or one for disorder. The success of our Organization is therefore dependent, at one and the same time, on our international, collective and personal actions. In our Caribbean corner of this global village, the Bahamas continues its efforts in the struggle to bring about peace and democracy in neighbouring Haiti. The success of this process will permit our own social and economic landscape to be relieved of the extra burden of caring for the thousands of illegal immigrants from that country who defy the sometimes harsh elements of nature in search of a safe haven in our relative paradise.We trust that the world - and especially the Member States of this Organization - has taken due note of the enormous weight imposed upon our small country by this undertaking. The Bahamas has well demonstrated its concern and care for its neighbours of the Republic of Haiti. I call to mind the famous statement by one of the young residents of Father Flanagan’s Boys’ Town United States of America . When asked about the concern and care he demonstrated for his brother he replied, 'He ain’t heavy, Father; he’s my brother'. The fact is, our brother is heavy, but we bear him gladly, in Christian charity, and in full and great expectation of imminent peace in Haiti. Our Bahamas remains proudly and immovably in league with this great Organization. I have the honour to convey to the General Assembly greetings from the people and Government of Nepal and the best wishes of His Majesty King Birenda Bir Bikram Shah Dev for the success of its forty-eighth session. As I stand before members today, my thoughts go back to 1960, when the first elected Prime Minister of Nepal, the late B.P. Koirala, addressed the Assembly and declared that the foreign policy of Nepal was inspired by the purposes and Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993 11 principles of the United Nations. He said then that Nepal looked upon the Organization as an instrument for promoting peace and justice among nations. The late Prime Minister’s visit to the United Nations was an event of historic significance for Nepal. A revolutionary transformation had then taken place in my country. As a result, a conscious and coherent foreign policy, with centrality given to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, had started to take shape. Similar revolutionary changes again took place in my country in 1990, after a gap of more than three decades. In accordance with the wishes of our people, multiparty democracy has been restored in Nepal. Now there is a constitutional guarantee of human rights and fundamental freedoms. As the second elected Prime Minister to address this body, after 33 years, I must say that this moment has a deep personal overtone for me. Restoration of multiparty democracy and respect for fundamental human rights does not necessarily mean that we have solved all our problems. The expectations of the people are naturally high, but the means at our disposal are extremely limited. Faced with such problems, my Government has been making every effort to ensure a better standard of living for our people in larger freedom. Our development plans are based on the premise that it is the individual citizen and not the State which has the right to development. Along with economic liberalization, we are pursuing a people-oriented development policy focused on poverty alleviation. To achieve our goals we have increased investments in human- priority areas. Given the enormous constraints upon us, ranging from lack of resources to the high cost of infrastructure, a shortage of skilled personnel and institutional deficiencies, our problems are daunting. We look forward to greater understanding from donor countries and multilateral agencies in helping us to implement our people-oriented development programmes, in upgrading local skills and in building the capacity to accelerate human development. The foreign policy of Nepal is guided by the objective of ensuring its sovereignty, political independence and national security while promoting international peace and cooperation. Inspired by the purposes and principles of the United Nations, the policy of non-alignment, and respect for human rights, we seek friendship and cooperation with all countries of the world, and in particular with our neighbours. We have reason to be satisfied with the excellent relations we enjoy with the countries in our immediate neighbourhood. We are partners with our friends in South Asia in an effort to forge a mutually beneficial scheme of cooperation for the welfare of our people under the aegis of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation. With the sudden end of the cold war the world is at the threshold of a new era of shared responsibility for global peace and development. The post-cold-war world is very much in need of order, but it is a world that cannot be ordered by military and economic Powers alone. At this time of historic transition, political leadership in all countries must show a higher order of statesmanship. It is time to shed old prejudices and parochialism. We should be able to pool the best of every civilization and culture for the greater good of mankind. Changes in international relations have also created opportunities to devise new partnership in global responsibility. The world today is poised to consider new approaches to international law based not on unilateralism but on multilateralism. The United Nations is an organization of the powerful and the weak, the large and the small, the wealthy and the poor, each contributing its share to the common interest. It is in the interest of all to make the United Nations an effective and influential agent of constructive change in a turbulent world. If the United Nations is to fulfil its Charter obligations it must deal with the root causes of conflicts and instability. The mechanisms and processes at its disposal for achieving that goal must be strengthened and refined. In this context, there are four areas which demand immediate attention: first, international cooperation to combat poverty; secondly, strengthening of the role of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security; thirdly, progressive reduction and finally elimination of weapons of mass destruction and, fourthly, universalization of human rights. Democracy and human rights are easily eroded when widespread poverty prevails. Poverty undermines human dignity, contributes to environmental degradation and undermines the cohesion of a society. It also poses a lasting threat to peace and stability. The search for collective security cannot, therefore, be separated from the sustained efforts to improve the economic and social conditions of peoples everywhere. Agenda 21, adopted at the Rio Conference on Environment and Development, is a comprehensive blueprint for sustainable development. To turn that vision into reality there is an urgent need for 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session resumption of the North-South dialogue and for economic cooperation between developing nations. The President returned to the Chair. In this context, I look forward to the Secretary-General’s agenda for development. We sincerely hope that an agenda for development will form the basis of accelerating international cooperation to the mutual benefit of developed and developing countries alike. The upcoming International Conference on Population and Development, the World Summit for Social Development and the Fourth World Conference on Women should also be occasions to focus on the human dimensions of socio-economic problems. In speaking of social and economic issues, I recall the initiative taken by countries of South Asia under the aegis of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation to work together for the cause of children. That initiative provided the major motivation for the holding of the World Summit for Children. The mid-decade review in 1995 must be an occasion to evaluate the implementation of the promises the international community made to children at the World Summit. Despite conflicting demands on our limited resources, we in Nepal are allocating an increasing portion of our national budget to child and maternal health and welfare and on other basic human-services areas. We are in favour of the proposal for matching resource allocations by donor countries for such national initiatives. The dramatic increase in the demands on and heightened expectations of the United Nations is nowhere more compelling than in the area of peace and security. With experience spanning over 35 years in United Nations missions, Nepal welcomes the expansion in the mandates of peace-keeping operations. The recent successes of the missions in El Salvador and Cambodia are testimony to the potential of a United Nations operation with a clearly defined and practicable mandate. The joint venture of the United Nations and the Organization of American States in Haiti is breaking newer ground in international cooperation to restore a democratically elected Government and to protect and promote human rights. Without minimizing the enormity of the problems the United Nations has to take into account in Somalia, I feel that the emphasis on military action will overshadow the larger goal of the mission in that country. I urge the redoubling of efforts to seek lasting political solutions to the problems in Somalia. I appeal to the parties concerned in Bosnia and Herzegovina to respond immediately to the successive resolutions of the Security Council and halt the senseless carnage of innocent people. The continuing tragedy in the territory of the former Yugoslavia presents a test-case for viable cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations in the maintenance of peace and security. Nepal will continue to support the further development of preventive diplomacy by the Secretary-General and the Security Council. In the maintenance of peace and security, the implementation of enforcement measures under the Charter should be the step of last resort. It should be the exception to rather than the rule of the game. The real strength of collective security lies in the ability to implement the provisions of the Charter relating to peaceful settlement of disputes. The grounds for the intervention of the Security Council have also raised questions of consistency. As the principal organ entrusted with the maintenance of international peace and security, the Council must act in an even-handed and impartial manner and must be perceived as doing so. The recent comments of the Secretary-General on the financial situation of the Organization should be a cause of concern to all. Investments in peace-keeping, peacemaking and preventive diplomacy are investments in collective stability. It is not possible for the United Nations to play its role without adequate resources. Along with other non-aligned countries, Nepal has always subscribed to the call for a more active United Nations role in arms control and disarmament. Since mutual fear is the source of any arms race, confidence-building measures must be seriously pursued in order to achieve the goals of disarmament. Nations should pursue a culture of ensuring security at the lowest possible level of armaments. Successes in bilateral negotiations on nuclear weapons, conventional forces in Europe and chemical weapons prove that it is a feasible goal. Nepal deems it extremely significant that all five nuclear-weapon States are now parties to the nuclear non-proliferation Treaty. We have long advocated an early conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty. Meaningful progress in this area will have important implications for the review and extension Conference on the non-proliferation Treaty. Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993 13 Protection of human rights has emerged as an important factor in the development of friendly relations among States. The United Nations must spare no effort in establishing an international norm of human rights. The World Conference on Human Rights was a major step in this direction. Human rights cannot be secure without a universal conscience on the part of all peoples to uphold each other’s rights in full understanding of the just demands of the individual, the community, the State and the international order. Human rights cannot be secured unless there is an absolute freedom from fear from any source. There is a direct correlation between the status of human rights, the democratic process and an evolution of a culture of peaceful settlement of disputes. The threat to peace is the greatest when human rights are denied. The world is at a vital turning-point. The old order has come to an end while the new has yet to take shape. While some old contradictions persist and new ones appear, some unexpected bright areas have also dawned. Nepal welcomes the agreement reached by the negotiating parties in South Africa to hold an election in April 1994. We share the deep concern of the international community over the continued violence which threatens the peaceful transition of South Africa to a non-racial democratic society. Nepal has long enjoyed friendship with both the Israeli and the Palestinian peoples. We welcome the Declaration of Principles as well as the exchange of letters of mutual recognition between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). The statesmanship shown by the leaders of Israel and the PLO promises a new beginning for the Middle East and, indeed, the world. We earnestly hope that this historic breakthrough will facilitate the search for a comprehensive and lasting solution of the Middle East problem. As I come towards the end of my statement, I wish to extend to you, Sir, my hearty congratulations on your election to the high office of President of the General Assembly at a time when the United Nations is passing through a very important phase in its history. I also take this opportunity to express our sincere appreciation to Mr. Stoyan Ganev for his stewardship of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I must also take this opportunity to pay our warmest tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. His efforts to reform and strengthen the United Nations with the courage of conviction have been universally appreciated. We are impressed by his vision and dynamism, which are necessary for the United Nations to cope with the new realities and challenges of our time. Mr. Boutros-Ghali was a well-known figure in my country even before he became the Secretary-General of the United Nations. We consider him to be a sincere friend of Nepal. Although small in military and economic strength, Nepal is fully alive to its responsibilities as a Member of this world Organization. Nepal will not hesitate to take an independent and objective stand in favour of larger good and justice. For us, the Charter of the United Nations captures the highest ideals of mankind. I take this opportunity to rededicate the commitment of the people and the Government of Nepal to the United Nations. It gives me pleasure to convey to you, Sir, and to your friendly country my sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I wish you every success in carrying out your responsibilities in light of the current developments and changes in the international situation. On this occasion, I should also like to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the constructive efforts he made and the positive role he played as the President of the past session. Since the end of the cold war, reference has been made to a new age. The implications of this have given rise, not only to hopes and aspirations, but also to caution and apprehension. Although there was overall satisfaction that the era of confrontation, the arms race and polarization had come to an end, and while there was cause for hope that an era of justice, cooperation and disarmament was about to dawn, there has been grave concern over the great injustices that we have witnessed in Bosnia; over the attempt at political suicide in Somalia; over the illogical and irrational wars in many parts of the world; and over the multiple criteria used in addressing various problems. Side by side with concern, there has been increasing despair and frustration over the continued deterioration of economic conditions in most developing countries, particularly in Africa. It must be acknowledged, however, that international developments, judged fairly and considered closely, are still in flux, and that the world situation is still dynamic. We truly hope that such dynamism is moving towards the strengthening of the positive factors and the rectification of the negative ones, in order that the political outlook worldwide might change and that everyone might embrace the new world order with satisfaction and a will to participate rather than with despair and frustration. Fortunately, this session begins amid increasing feelings of optimism in view of the ongoing progress towards a just solution to the question of Palestine and of the steady progress towards a solution to the problem of South Africa. At the Israeli-Palestinian level, a major step has been taken through mutual recognition by Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. This means mutual recognition by the two peoples of each other and mutual acceptance of the idea of coexistence with one another. This also opens the door to serious and substantive negotiations which would provide an unprecedented opportunity to achieve a just settlement to the problem that has cast its shadow on the Middle East - indeed, on the whole world - since the end of the Second World War. If what has been achieved represents the first step towards such a settlement, it will undoubtedly lead to the establishment of a positive relationship that would deal with issues such as withdrawal, self-determination and refugees until the historic and comprehensive settlement between Israel, Palestine and the Arabs is finalized. This may be the real meaning behind the statement of the Israeli Prime Minister at the signing ceremony in Washington, D.C., when he said: 'Enough', and when he said that the time for peace has come; and also of President Yasser Arafat’s statement that the Palestine Liberation Organization has turned a new leaf in its relations with Israel. And God bless the memory of the late President Anwar El-Sadat, who said: 'No more wars'. Sixteen years ago, Egypt made a breakthrough towards the outer reaches of the future and shook off the shackles of the status quo by realizing that wars neither create peace nor resolve conflicts and that only reason and dialogue provide the effective means of tackling problems, no matter how insurmountable or intractable they may seem. Peace was therefore initiated by Egypt, a peace founded on the solid foundation of respect for international legality and on the resultant responsibilities in a balanced manner that ensures justice for all. The peace process initiated at the Madrid Conference in October 1991 is now bearing fruit after unrelenting efforts, and we are encouraged by the initial outcome we Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 11 saw recently on both the Palestinian-Israeli and the Jordanian-Israeli tracks and look forward to similar results on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks. Both countries rightly call for complete withdrawal from their territories within a context based objectively on the principle of land for peace. In order to put an end to the legacy of wars and enmity, Egypt, which has devoted a substantial part of its efforts to Middle East issues, calls upon all the peoples of the region to look to the future and to reflect upon our relations in the period following the settlement of the conflict. It calls on them to reflect upon the future of the region and its development to ensure optimum utilization of the ample expertise available and optimal investment of the rich human resources at our disposal and of the valuable natural resources with which it has been endowed. Egypt calls on these peoples to reflect upon the most suitable social contract for our region so that they might maintain their respective unique, intrinsic characteristics and achieve harmony and integration among the region’s common elements, so that social and cultural stability may prevail and the region may achieve comprehensive cultural integration in a genuine era of comprehensive integral peace. Finally, Egypt calls on the peoples of the region to develop a system of relations based on equal security, the non-use of force, a balance of armaments and the elimination of all weapons of mass destruction in a context of transparency and peaceful relations. In the same vein, Egypt calls on all States in the Middle East, and particularly on Israel, to accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and to take the necessary practical measures to prohibit and renounce the possession, the use or the threat of use of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons so that the Middle East may become a zone free of these weapons as called for in President Hosni Mubarak’s initiative of April 1990. We consider this to be an indispensable prerequisite for security and stability in the Middle East. Side by side with the considerable optimism generated by what has been achieved in the context of the Palestinian- Israeli conflict, there has been progress in another area, that for far too long has been a hotbed of serious historical and international conflict, namely, the conflict in South Africa, between a people calling for its rights to equality and freedom and a regime that was based on repression and apartheid. Egypt, an African state with an African people, feels glad to see positive developments in South Africa, the most important of which is the agreement on the formation of a transitional Executive Council that would lead towards democracy and equal rights. The Council consists of representatives of majority as well as minority groups and would work within a framework of cooperation, co-existence and understanding. Despite the many obstacles and the great challenges that still lie ahead, the start has been encouraging and developments are promising. In this regard, we recognize the role played by President De Klerk. We also pay tribute to the role played by Nelson Mandela and his companions across the political spectrum in South Africa in turning a new leaf towards a common future. The twenty-ninth African Summit Conference was held in Cairo last June. It gave the countries of the continent an opportunity to evaluate its progress on the thirtieth anniversary of the establishment of the Organization of African Unity (OAU). The meeting produced the Cairo Declaration, which reflected the imposing record of the struggle of the peoples of the African continent over the past three decades. The Declaration also put forward the member States’ vision for the future and their conception of the manner in which they may adapt to the successive and quick international changes in shaping their conditions and relationships. The Cairo summit discussions established many landmarks that would guide the direction of African activities in the coming years. They noted the options available to the continent and the challenges it has to face. The continent has expressed its determination to eliminate poverty, desertification and indebtedness and to initiate a comprehensive development process for its countries and peoples and to improve their economic and political conditions. Despite the numerous problems of Africa, the continent has demonstrated that it is prepared to shoulder its responsibilities in facing up to the challenges posed by those problems. Most prominent among its decisions in this regard was the decision to establish an African machinery for resolving disputes. In that regard, the African States are have set forth a new mode of international cooperation and collaboration in shouldering responsibilities, notwithstanding all the difficulties facing the continent because of its continued low share in the world gross national product and the increasing cost of debt servicing. Such a situation, though restraining the continent’s endeavors and weakening its capabilities, has not debilitated either its will or its determination. The Cairo Summit was an expression of a determined attitude towards the indispensable need to make a number of adjustments to African policies and plans. It showed that the time has come to take the difficult decisions required to bridge the gap between Africa and the developed world - indeed, between Africa and many countries of the third world itself. Mention of Africa leads to a discussion of the developments in the Horn of Africa. This is all the more important owing to the fact that the developments and interactions in the Horn of Africa are closely related to the security of the Middle East and of Africa in general. Hence, we welcome the independence of Eritrea and its accession to membership of the United Nations. We also express our deep regret at the situation in Somalia. In this regard, Egypt is fully cooperating with the international community, which has moved effectively to put an end to the famine that beleaguered that country and to the armed conflicts that have shaken its very existence. In the meantime, Egypt sympathizes with the people of Somalia in their aspiration after a secure future based on a national reconciliation that will serve the interests and meets the aspirations of all the Somali people and not merely the ambitions of a certain leader or faction. As a result, immediately after being elected Chairman of the Organization of African Unity, President Hosni Mubarak, inspired by Egypt’s keen interest in the implementation of Security Council resolutions on the situation in Somalia, coordinated efforts with the Secretary- General of the United Nations and the Secretary-General of the OAU to create the climate that would make it possible to achieve continued progress in the efforts designed to enable that brotherly country to begin the reconstruction and rehabilitation of its infrastructure and to permit its people - torn by conflicts and dissension - to clear the debris of discord and to reunite. That can be done only by helping the Somali people to achieve a comprehensive national reconciliation that would allow all its elements to express their will freely, without any repression or apprehension and without being blackmailed by power-seekers who instigate policies of destruction and annihilation. This is a responsibility that the Somali people, who fell prey to tribal disputes and personal ambitions, must shoulder, and the time has come to put an end to that situation from an exclusively national perspective. Moving from Somalia to Angola where the situation has been aggravated by UNITA’s disregard for the will of the majority of the people, expressed in free elections, Egypt calls for absolute support for Security Council resolution 864 (1993) which was adopted under Chapter VII of the Charter, and which condemned UNITA and urged all States to refrain from providing any form of assistance to it until it respects the provisions of the 'Acordos de Paz' as well as the will of the people of Angola and the resolutions of the United Nations. Africa’s problems are not confined to those of South Africa, the Horn of Africa or Angola. They also extend to numerous African States whether in the form of civil wars, such as the one in Liberia, with its impact on its neighbours, or in the form of internal political dissension, like that prevalent in many African States at the present time, in addition to all the development-related problems and the pangs of democratization. Nevertheless, Africa is ready, with determination and political will, to go beyond those problems and to embrace the twenty-first century and, all total confidence, steadfastness and determination, to be an active partner in the formulation of the desired new international order. I began by reviewing some of the positive developments in international relations that gave us reason to look toward the future with hope. However, there have been other recent developments in the world which give rise to concerns and fears. Those developments have posed an essential question among a number of thinkers: What kind of a world order do we need, and would such an order, whose foundations would be laid today, be an extension of the past, with its notions and policies, but in some new form, or would it be a mere reflection of the present with all its imbalances, contradictions and double standards? Or, rather, would it be a real and genuine development towards a future that may take us into the twenty-first century? Living in just peace and prevailing stability is the prime demand, without which none of our aspirations will be attained. Peace is not a passive or abstract concept. It is the expression of the active and conscious will of all countries and peoples, small or large, to manage the common life on this planet, with all its peoples, entities and groupings, according to commonly agreed principles, values and guidelines. Certain principles underlie our concept of living in conditions of peace and security, the most important of which are the following: first, respect and support for international legality to maintain the reverence for and predominance of the law we have all accepted; secondly, the principle of equal rights and obligations to relieve frustrated peoples and to encourage them to utilize their expertise and efforts in joint and integrated action for the benefit of all. All men are required to abide by the same rules in their international relations and to have a balanced share in regional and international responsibilities within a framework that gives priority to public interest. Thirdly, the same standard should be applied in judging all cases that are similar in nature. The same provisions should be applied on a universal basis without selectivity or bias to ensure stability and security, reward compliance and punish and deter those who breach the accepted norms of international legality. Fourthly, the principle of peace for all in the context of corresponding and balanced commitments should be respected. Fifthly, the right to development should be respected and joint assistance made to developing countries, particularly to the least developed among them. Respect for these principles constitutes direct and active implementation of the rules of international legality. It also represents a sincere response to the will of the international community. Their violation would threaten our efforts to agree on a more just and humane international order and would greatly harm the credibility and progress of such efforts. I have to state here in all frankness that Muslim communities, and many others, have witnessed the manifestations of repression and bias in a number of international policies. This has become apparent in the hesitation and inconsistency witnessed in addressing the question of Bosnia and certain other issues. There is no doubt that a great deal of the suspicions of the Muslim world could have been dispelled if the Bosnian problem had been dealt with according to the established principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter relating to aggression, occupation, war crimes and crimes committed against humanity. All of those crimes have been committed against the people of Bosnia. This will not be forgotten by those who have witnessed that tragedy unfolding under their very eyes, day in and day out. Instead of addressing the problem in accordance with the principles of the Charter, the blockade has been tightened around the people of Bosnia and all manner of procrastination and stalling has prevailed. Egypt rejects this flagrant manipulation of the norms of justice. Such manipulation rewards the aggressor for his aggression. Egypt rejects this gross breach of human rights. How can anyone justify this hesitation in the face of Serb aggression against Bosnia on the part of the international community that stood against Iraq’s Government when it committed aggression against Kuwait? And if we approve the demarcation of the Iraq-Kuwait border, why do we allow the Serbs to expand at the expense of the Bosnian people and their territorial rights? The protraction of the Bosnian problem without a just solution acceptable to its people weakens the credibility of many international policies and developments. The only positive development in this regard may be the establishment of the International Tribunal for the prosecution of war criminals who have practiced ethnic cleansing. These prosecutions should target those who advocate or condone such practices that bespeak cultural decadence and criminality in those who perpetrate or advocate them. The issue of human rights is one of the major questions that face us. We in Egypt believe that the human rights issue is universal both in content and nature. When we deal with this issue in Egypt, we look at it through the perspective of the cultural and historical heritage which is part of our national identity. We view it through our deep-rooted history extending through the millennia; through our ancient Egyptian civilization; through our Islamic civilization, which is deeply impressed upon our consciousness; through our interaction with the Mediterranean civilizations; and through the legacy of the ages of renaissance and enlightenment in contemporary Europe, which have had their effect on philosophy and modern thought in Egypt. The essence of this interlocking and integrated cultural heritage is the assertion of the individual human being’s value, recognition of his role in working for revival and progress, and upholding his right to freedom of thought and creativity in line with Islam’s sound principles which uphold man’s personal and social freedom. Those principles maintain a balance between rights and duties as well as between the individual and society, so that neither may encroach on the rights of the other and so that all may live within a framework of a meticulously formulated social contract. As we see it, the main aim of human rights is to protect the real interests of the individual, his family and his homeland, as well as his fundamental, essential and genuine right to live in safety and security. This is the primary right from which all other rights should emanate. All these rights must be protected from those who try to violate or deny them through terrorism or intimidation. All communities of the world are now in the same struggle against terroristic practices, whether they emanate from racial chauvinism, the 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session radical right, doctrines of 'ethnic cleansing' or religious fanaticism. All these doctrines follow practices that constitute gross violations of human rights, and should be defied. In view of our firm stand in favour of safeguarding and maintaining human rights - foremost of which is the right to life and security - we are aware that real democracy is the best guarantee of stability, security and social peace. All political freedoms and rights, individual or collective, will remain forever incomplete if they are not complemented by economic, social and cultural rights. We believe that it is not an overstatement to say that the right of the individual and of the community to development and economic and political progress is closely related with their political and cultural rights in general. They reinforce each other and neither can proceed on its own. One of the challenges now facing us is the need to demonstrate our collective ability to bring about a real change in the world economic order that would transcend narrow interests and considerations and rise to the level of real world partnership in striving for sustainable development for all and the protection of our common environment. Such a challenge requires us frankly to express our views concerning current international developments that give cause for concern with regard to the future. The current world economic situation pivots on the centrality of the decision-making process which remains in the hands of the industrialized countries, with all that that entails with regard to the economies of developing countries. Furthermore, the current recession in the industrialized countries is reflected directly in the depression and increasing unemployment and poverty rates that plague the developing countries. This situation is exacerbated by the protectionist measures put in place by rich countries in trying to face up to their economic problems. Developing countries find themselves helpless before such measures. They can only plead and hope. And this takes place at a time when most of the developing countries are in the throes of implementing rigorous programmes of economic reform. As the liberalization of trade constitutes a fundamental resource for development in the case of the developing countries, protectionism deprives those countries of the opportunity to reap the fruits of their agonized efforts in the area of economic reform and liberalization and severely hampers the integration of their economies in the world economy. So far, we find nothing in the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations that augurs well for the future. Today, the developing countries find themselves marginalized by side deals in which they do not participate. Such deals are characterized by ambiguity rather than transparency. They jeopardize the interests of developing countries. On the other hand, the developments of the last two years have demonstrated that the international monetary system is no better than the trade system. Conflicting goals of monetary and macro-economic policies in industrialized countries have led to a state of chaos in foreign exchange markets, destabilizing the world economic order, with all resultant adverse effects on developing economies. The Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro was an important milestone on the road of constructive dialogue between North and South for a world partnership to counter the dangers facing our planet. In spite of the meagre progress that has been achieved in the implementation of the Rio resolutions, we still perceive a marked difference between the perspectives of the developed and the developing countries. The developed countries focus mainly on the symptoms of the crisis, which represent a major threat to their life styles and their welfare, even though it was those very countries which contributed to the deterioration of the environment. By contrast, many developing countries continue to suffer from environmental pollution for which other countries are largely responsible. In their attempt to solve problems of debt, declining commodity prices and trade barriers as well as the problems of sustainable development and the requirements for environmental protection, Governments found that they were facing a real impasse leading to low productivity and declining growth rates which in turn led to more poverty. In the long run, the divergence between these two perspectives may hinder comprehensive world action to deal with the world environmental crisis. In order to surmount this dilemma, all parties are called upon to shoulder their responsibility for lending credibility to and promoting the acceptance of the slogans of interdependence and world partnership. In this regard, it is important to address an integral aspect of the equation for achieving development and preserving the environment: the population problem, which threatens both sides of that equation. We are all aware of the extent of this problem, which completely absorbs the yields of development and will ensure the continued destruction of the environment. The International Conference on Population and Development, which Cairo will host in September 1994, represents an opportune occasion for the international community to address population issues from the appropriate developmental perspective and from the perspective of their relationship to issues of economic and social development. We in Egypt, as the host country, shall exert every effort to ensure the success of this important conference, and we are confident that its outcome will represent a sound context for international cooperation in the field of population and development. Our discussion of the conditions and circumstances of the Third World leads us to a broader and more comprehensive discussion of the political movements and groupings with which the various developing countries are associated, despite their different orientations and stages of development. It is high time for us to stop and ask ourselves what these groupings have achieved and what can be done to further their legitimate goals. We need to reflect on this issue in a frank, constructive and objective manner. It has become apparent that the challenges facing the developing countries have changed substantially. We are on the threshold of new international conditions and challenges which have different economic, political and security effects. In Egypt, we have already begun to study this issue, taking into consideration the positive and the negative effects of the past decades at the political, economic and social levels in the Third World, and the implications for changing priorities and areas of concern. We have come to the following conclusions: Firstly, the so-called Third World represents the majority of the world population and the majority of world countries. It has the major share in the production of primary commodities, and it has vast market potential. This Third World is fully entitled to be a full-fledged partner in the ongoing restructuring process at the world level. Secondly, in order to be able to do so, the Third World has to mould a political collective will, and this can only be achieved through democratic open discussion between its States. Thirdly, this, in turn, can only be achieved through the establishment of a political system or movement that would include all these States. Fourthly, the ultimate aim should be dialogue, negotiation and partnership within a framework of cooperation, collaboration and integration, rather than confrontation or conflict. Today, I propose that the developing countries embark on a dialogue aimed at establishing a grouping for the Third World, a grouping within which the developing countries would deal with the political, economic and social aspects of various world issues, a grouping to coordinate their positions and shape their contribution towards the laying of the foundations of the new world order which we hope will prevail during the 21st century. The developments we have just reviewed, and the successive changes we are witnessing, strengthen Egypt’s belief in the pivotal role of the United Nations in managing international relations in line with the principles and provisions of its Charter. Egypt attaches great importance to increasing the effectiveness of the United Nations and preserving its credibility. We are aware of the nature and number of the challenges that face the international Organization, perhaps for the first time. These urgent challenges were suddenly pushed to the surface of international relations by historical developments that were never imagined by the founding fathers or the drafters of the Charter. We all agree that the momentum that characterized the past few years was so pressing and rapid that there should be a comprehensive review of the United Nations mechanisms and structure, if we are serious in our effort to adjust the international will to the facts of our age, and if we are eager to maintain the credibility and effectiveness of the United Nations. In this connection, and with reference to the envisaged structural changes, I would like to state that Egypt, as one of the States which took part in the formulation of the Charter, and as one of the founding states of the Organization, is mainly concerned with the continued presence of the United Nations and its principles, message, prestige and credibility to serve the causes of international peace and security without interruption. Needless to say, the burdens of the United Nations in the post-cold war era are far greater than they were during the cold war itself. If the collective will of the international community agrees to make structural changes in the membership of the Security Council, for example, Egypt - which is undertaking an effective role within the international order in the formulation of regional and international relations and in establishing the concepts and principles on which we all agree, in addition to its participation in numerous peace-keeping operations on several continents - has the right and the potential to contribute in a responsible manner to the proposed institutional restructuring of the United Nations. Egypt has the desire and determination to take part both in the process itself and in setting the standards and values to be used in the process. Egypt believes that it has now gained the requisite standing to be included within the framework of the ongoing discussion and within the new membership. We must open the doors to a better future in whose creation all of us will participate to achieve the 21st century world for which we hope. This is the time for collective formulation of a new solid and stable world order. This is the great challenge that faces us all at a time of unprecedented opportunity. The General Assembly’s annual convening in New York is a world event which, each year, expresses the hope of nations and peoples to find common ground, through dialogue and joint effort, in order to live together their shared destiny. In a world that is becoming daily more diverse and in which peoples are witness to so many contradictions, is it not here and now, in close friendship and fraternal dialogue, that humanity, with its boundless intellectual and ethical potential, can embark on a process of self-examination and be reconciled with the universal conscience, which is also the foundation of our human calling to live together and in harmony? It is in that belief that the delegation of Senegal - which participated in your election, Mr. President, aware of your brilliant political record and the outstanding role your country plays on the international scene - extends to you through me the warm congratulations of my country, our people and its leaders. We have no doubt about your mastery of international practice, for we know that your vast experience as a statesman will make it possible for you to conduct, with effectiveness, intelligence and skill the work of this session of the General Assembly. My best wishes are thus with you in your election and with the task you have been called upon to accomplish, until September 1994, from this historic and lofty rostrum. Your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, former Minister for Foreign Affairs of Bulgaria, guided the proceedings of the forty-seventh session of our General Assembly with a competence and effectiveness that deserve our appreciation and gratitude. We wish heartily to congratulate him. I should like to pay a special tribute to our Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the enormous energy that he has expended with such foresight and courage to ensure the implementation of the principles and the realization of the objectives of the Charter of our Organization. The personal friendship that I have shared with that eminent citizen of the world for almost 25 years allows me to reiterate the esteem and admiration that I have always felt towards him. Finally, I should like to extend my country’s congratulations to all the new States Members of our Organization - the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Principality of Monaco, the Principality of Andorra and Eritrea. I welcome all of them to the United Nations family. Some 15 years ago, in September 1978, I had the honour for the first time, in my capacity as the new Minister for Foreign Affairs of Senegal, to address this Assembly. As the young head of the diplomatic corps of an African country, I referred to the many problems then confronting the international community and which revolved around two basic focal points. The first of these was the accession to political sovereignty of peoples that had not yet experienced freedom, that had been denied the full exercise of inalienable rights inherent to every human being on Earth. Those rights had been denied them by other men, other peoples, other States and other nations in the name of a system that was imposed on them and to which they had been subjected. Hope in their fellow man was their only defence. The other focal point of attention was the grave inequality of conditions for the economic, social, human and cultural development of nations. Some of these nations had near-total control of scientific developments, industrial technology, transport and communications, the cultural media and world trade networks. They even controlled the raw materials that were produced, to a great extent, in the underdeveloped regions. At the same time, while the prices of these raw materials were falling year after year at a dizzying pace, other nations were forced to buy at a high price and with reduced resources the consumer goods produced in the industrialized countries. Those nations were devoting all of their export income to these transactions and were therefore unable to invest in order to ensure their own development. Thus doomed to indebtedness, they lost a significant part of Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993 9 their own sovereignty just as they were taking their first tentative steps onto the international scene. And here we are today, 15 years later, gathered together to evaluate, in an outpouring of solidarity, the distance we have covered. The fact is that the world has changed - yes, it has changed - and the transformations that characterize this end of the twentieth century are so profound that the international community at large feels the need to reform radically the way the United Nations functions, as regards, particularly, the composition of the Security Council, the financial management of the United Nations and cooperation for development, to mention just a few of the most acute needs of the present day. The world has changed. As for the African continent - to take this as a point of reference - most of the peoples formerly under foreign domination have acceded to independence. States have been created; the structures of an economy have been established; and political and economic leaders have been trained and set to work to help these peoples fulfil their destinies. But inequalities remain, even though an unprecedented global crisis today affects the economies of all countries, including even those of the most highly industrialized nations. The world economy seems to have become dislocated. It has lost its balance. New rules are established and developed day by day in the quest for new balances and new solutions. And all this is done in a situation that increasingly jeopardizes international peace. This situation could, if we are not careful, lead to impatience, to intolerance, to irritation, to a lack of dialogue - in short, to inevitable confrontation. Such a threat is unacceptable, and we must not accept it. That is why, together with my colleagues the other heads of delegations, I would like on behalf of my country - an African country, a Sahelian country, a developing country - to join other delegations in repeating to the nations gathered here that, in spite of all these problems, we do not have the right to despair. For it is obvious today that the salvation of humankind resides in solidarity and in friendship and cooperation between human beings. The fundamental and logical underpinnings of relations between peoples are, more than ever before, dialogue and agreement, expressed through firm language that translates our thoughts about the human being and about life. It is fortunate that a country such as France - which I am pleased to mention, together with other industrialized countries that are supporting Africa - reaffirmed just a few days ago in Paris, through Mr. Alain Juppé, Minister for Foreign Affairs, that the West in general and the European countries in particular must be aware that if the majority of the populations of the world remain hungry, poor, bearing the weight of the distortions in the international economy, and if, in addition, they see their efforts to achieve political and social democracy destroyed by difficulties of all types, then there will always be a risk that international peace will be destabilized. The industrialized countries must move in the right direction. They must understand that international solidarity can be expressed only through the mutual support that nations must give each other. In this respect, our continent, Africa, and many Asian countries should receive this support in a context of mutual respect. In other words, the proposal for an 'agenda for development' initiated by the Brazilian delegation, with the support of the Group of 77, to accompany the 'Agenda for Peace' submitted by our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, deserves the international community’s attention. This important measure reflects the concerns of the Head of State of Senegal, President Abdou Diouf, who, when he addressed this Assembly last year, on this very date, launched the idea of a general agreement on solidarity as the foundation for fruitful international economic cooperation, the driving force of North-South solidarity in a renewed form. Ancient African wisdom - the ancient wisdom of our continent -teaches us that human beings, who alone can change and improve their own environment, are endowed with prodigious intellectual and moral resources, resources based on intelligence, imagination and the ability to rise to a situation in a way that makes it possible for them to fulfil their destiny. We must remain united and mutually supportive. In this connection, the delegation of Senegal solemnly commends the international community for the efforts that made possible the signing in Washington on 13 September 1993 of the agreement between the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. This historic event put an end to many decades of hostility and rancour, which cost thousands of lives and left many wounded and many alone, orphaned or widowed - all because of a lack of understanding which itself led to the destruction of the conditions for development in the Middle Eastern countries as a whole. And, what is more, there was the flare-up in oil prices which began in October 1973 and 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session which led to the inflationary curves that have since then characterized the global economy everywhere in the world. It is now up to the international community to work to consolidate this important step in the direction of a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East. In this endeavour, the United Nations family can rely, as in the past, on the constant and active support of my country to ensure that in that holy land Israelis and Palestinians can bring humankind into harmony with its profound values of tolerance, wisdom and concord. That is also the way we view the efforts made to resolve conflicts that in the past seemed beyond any human solution. I have in mind, inter alia, Cambodia, where the settlement plan designed by the United Nations led to the holding in May 1993 of general, orderly and democratic elections, as a result of which a legitimate Government was established; El Salvador, where, after several years of civil war, negotiations conducted under the auspices of the United Nations led to the signing, at the beginning of last year, of the Mexico Agreement, which initiated a period of transition towards general elections planned for the beginning of 1994; Liberia, where repeated initiatives pursued by the members of the Economic Community of West African States, supported by the United Nations and by the Organization of African Unity, made it possible to conclude, in July 1993, a new peace agreement which should, as we fervently hope, lead to a definitive settlement of that fratricidal conflict; and Mozambique and Rwanda, where similar agreements have been concluded and where the United Nations has been meaningfully involved in their practical and complete implementation. I also have in mind South Africa, where considerable progress has been made toward eliminating a system which the entire world rejected and condemned, and where peoples, united in fruitful diversity, must work together for the emergence of a human community characterized by justice and equality. My country, Senegal, will respond to the appeal made in this Hall a few days ago by President Nelson Mandela, when, from this very rostrum, he invited the international community to take a new approach consistent with the evolution of the situation in his country. All of these are excellent examples of the fact that these new times bear new hopes, even though we still have grounds for legitimate concern. In fact, despite the victories that freedom has won, when peoples are liberated peace is not always the result. The legacy of the collapsing old order is in fact often an unwieldy one, difficult to manage. On the ruins of oppression which lasted for far too long we must build a new world, a world of freedom and peace, of justice and progress. During this uncertain period of transition, border conflicts, problems between neighbours and religious tensions bring a return to the conflicts - civil war, genocide, rivalry among members of the same national community - of an era we thought past. Yugoslavia, Somalia, Angola: there are many examples that show that universal peace, that primary objective of the United Nations, is yet but an aspiration. The challenge, therefore, is to do all in our power so that in all parts of the world the freedoms regained will open the way to peace. My country, Senegal, which has always and in every way been committed to strengthening peace and promoting security, feels that working towards this objective means, first and foremost, affirming forcefully the rule of law in international relations. Lasting peace and security, in fact, can be guaranteed only if all nations of the world comply with the rule of law in their relations with other nations. That law must be the same for all if justice is to prevail. In this context, and in connection with the tragedy of the fraternal people of Kuwait, I welcome the happy conclusions that have been reached by the Iraq-Kuwait Boundary Demarcation Commission. The international community must continue to protect all States from any external threat to their independence and sovereignty. My thoughts turn also to Bosnia and Herzegovina, a martyred State and a State Member of the United Nations. I believe the international community has endeavoured in every stage of the evolution of the situation in the former Yugoslavia to guarantee the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the international community has committed itself to enforcing, above all, the rights of the Bosnian people, a people today undeniably the victim of true genocide. This commitment must be respected because the very credibility of our Organization is at stake. In any event, it is in order to uphold respect for that commitment that my country, whose Head of State is Chairman of the Sixth Islamic Summit Conference, intends to continue the efforts he has already begun to contribute to the promotion of peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in close cooperation with all countries that cherish the same ideals of peace and justice. Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993 11 I also have in mind the painful situation prevailing in Angola. The Bicesse Accords, although freely entered into by the parties to the conflict, seem today to have collapsed. By calling into question the validity of the elections organized a year ago under those same Bicesse Accords, UNITA has once again plunged Angola into an atmosphere fraught with danger and uncertainty. The magnitude of the destruction and suffering caused by this situation warrants urgent efforts to arrive at a definitive cease-fire and a resumption of negotiations. The framework already exists: the Bicesse Accords, endorsed by the United Nations. The principles on which any solution to the conflict must be based are also very clear: the safeguarding of Angola’s territorial integrity and national unity and also, above all, respect for the will of the Angolan people, freely expressed in the elections a year ago. On these bases, my country would here like to send out a solemn appeal to all our Angolan brothers and sisters, above all those of UNITA, to understand that it is not in the interests of the Angolan people to continue the fighting. The interests of the Angolan people reside exclusively in the national effort that all must make to restore peace and harmony to Angola. We Senegalese, for our part, support all efforts to help them in this regard. There is also the situation in Somalia, where a great deal remains to be done to restore peace and organize a viable State. The United Nations there is on the right path, conducting the most ambitious and largest operation ever organized in Africa. My country would like to express its pleasure once again over the organization of this operation in a country that is today experiencing a tragic and complex situation. The infrastructure has been devastated, the State has collapsed and fratricidal internal strife has engendered massive displacements of the population. In the face of this tragic situation and in support of the Addis Ababa Agreement, which was the result on last 28 March of the Conference on National Reconciliation in Somalia, the international community, through the United Nations, gave the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II) a mandate to continue the disarmament and to work towards national reconciliation, and at the same time, and most important, towards the strengthening of political institutions. We are pleased to note that today, in spite of the sporadic turmoil of recent months, UNOSOM II has begun to help the Somali people restore the sovereignty and integrity of the State. It is in Somalia’s and the whole international community’s interests for this mission to continue and that it achieve the desired results. I wish at this point to conclude my statement on a hopeful note. There is a clear awareness today that our planetary community is inextricably interrelated, that it rests on a natural unity based on scientific and medical discoveries and the speed of communications. But despite, and perhaps because of, this very progress there remains a certain fragility in the balance of our world. Our calling as human beings endowed with reason is therefore to remain united and to ensure together, hand in hand, the survival of humankind. It is our duty to see to it that our populations live long and in good health, to see to it that future generations derive the greatest benefit from the experiences we have had and that we are having now, so that, tomorrow, our legacy to them will be a world that has not been destroyed, a generous nature, a land united on the solid foundations of friendship, brotherhood, love and peace. First of all, I would like on behalf of the delegation of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic to congratulate you, Sir, most warmly on your unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly of the United Nations at its forty-eighth session. We are familiar with your great diplomatic skills and your patience and perseverance and therefore feel certain that you will guide the work of this session towards a successful conclusion. 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session I would also like to convey our wholehearted congratulations to the Secretary-General of our Organization, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the tireless and efficient efforts he has exerted in discharging his important responsibilities over the past year. We wish him every success in the accomplishment of his complex and difficult tasks at the head of our Organization. The Lao delegation also extends a welcome to the States that have recently become Members of the United Nations: the Principality of Andorra, Eritrea, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Principality of Monaco, the Slovak Republic and the Czech Republic. Their presence among us certainly enhances the universality of the United Nations. The present session of the General Assembly has begun at a time when the international situation as a whole is evolving in a positive direction, conducive both to dialogue and to cooperation between States. None the less, the genuine peace that peoples the world over have so long awaited has not been attained. From East to West, from North to South, sizeable and often tragic conflicts keep breaking out. It is true that some of them have been successfully resolved, but many others, of an ethnic, racial and religious nature, are arising in various parts of the world and are raging unabated, rendering the world situation fragile and precarious. In Europe, the situation in the Republic of Bosnia remains tense and even explosive, and could threaten both regional and global peace and security. In flagrant defiance of international humanitarian law, crimes such as 'ethnic cleansing', mass rapes, torture and deliberate bombing of civilian targets continue to be committed against the innocent Bosnian people. Given the gravity of the problem, all the parties to this painful conflict should show the courage and the sense of realism necessary to reach a just and equitable political settlement freely and as quickly as possible, and thereby contribute to the restoration of peace, security and normalcy in that country and in the entire region. In South Africa, the conclusion of an agreement on the date of the first multiracial elections and the establishment of the Transitional Executive Council constitute an important stage in the efforts of the people of that country to build a united, democratic and non-racial South Africa. Nevertheless, the overall situation in the country remains fragile. Sadly, we still witness an upsurge of acts of violence and of discord in many parts of the country. Therefore, political, social and racial order must be restored so that the reforms thus begun can continue, at an accelerated pace. In Somalia, the evolution of the situation is still disquieting. It is vital that the international community find just and lasting solutions to this problem in accordance with the rights and aspirations of the Somali people. In the Middle East, an important step has been taken in the quest for a comprehensive, just and lasting settlement of the Israel-Arab conflict. The Lao delegation is pleased at the mutual recognition between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel, as well as the Gaza-Jericho autonomy agreement which was signed in Washington on 13 September 1993. We hope that that agreement will help the various parties to the conflict to establish a climate of mutual trust and in this way to find a comprehensive settlement that is just and honourable for all, in the framework of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and other relevant United Nations resolutions. In western Asia, despite the signing last March at Islamabad of a peace agreement between the Afghan parties in conflict, Afghanistan remains the theatre of civil war. In the interests of national concord among Afghans, of the reconstruction of their homeland and of the peace and security of the entire region, we appeal to all the parties concerned to put an end to their conflicts. On the Korean peninsula, there is still an atmosphere of mutual distrust in the military sphere. We welcome the tireless efforts made by all the countries concerned, including the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, to ensure that the Korean peninsula is a nuclear-weapon-free zone. It would be in the highest interest of the entire north- east Asian region and of the world if peace, stability and cooperation were to be achieved. In South-East Asia, the countries of the region generally enjoy good relations, and this is opening up a new era for the broadening of their cooperation, day by day, in many fields of shared interest. For the first time my own country, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, participated as an observer in the Ministerial Meeting of the countries of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), held recently in Singapore. We are pleased at this important meeting with the countries of ASEAN which has given new impetus to our joint efforts to promote cooperation in different fields among the peoples of the region. Our delegation is also gratified by the historic events that have taken place in Cambodia, our immediate neighbour. The promulgation of the new constitution by His Majesty King Samdech Norodom Sihanouk and the establishment of a new Government in that country will open the way to peace, stability and national harmony, thus Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 13 contributing to the strengthening of cooperation and friendship in the region. In the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, 1992 was a year of many achievements. Our gross national product increased by 7 per cent over 1991; our rate of inflation is 10 per cent, compared to 14 per cent in 1991; and the rate of exchange in general has stabilized. In other words, the multi-ethnic Lao people is seeing a gradual improvement in its standard of living. From a political standpoint, our country has experienced solid stability, and we intend vigorously to continue our effort to promote democracy and our people’s collective decision-making power, in accordance with our country’s historical and cultural realities and with its level of economic and social development. At the beginning of 1993, the National Assembly endorsed our national plan for socio-economic development through the year 2000. Under this plan, the Lao Government has set for itself two major objectives. The first is aimed at meeting the most urgent daily needs of our population, especially of the ethnic minorities that live in the mountainous regions; bringing about a gradual rise in their standard of living, both material and cultural; and ensuring political and social stability in the country. The second is to promote the development of agriculture and forestry in concert with the development of services and of industry, especially in the field of hydropower, one of the areas of potential growth in our country; to develop more forcefully our market economy, create internal savings, stabilize State finances and work steadily towards financial autonomy; and to strengthen our efforts at development of human resources in order to create conditions conducive to national development in the immediate future and for the years to come. In order to realize this plan, we will endeavour to achieve an average growth rate of 8 per cent, to maintain economic and financial balance, to preserve stability of prices and of rates of exchange, and to keep the inflation rate no higher than 10 per cent per year. The Government will continue its policy of broadening cooperation with other countries and in this regard hopes to have the support and assistance in all respects of the international community. According to the United Nations World Economic Survey, production at the international level should increase by only 1.5 per cent this year and 3 per cent in 1994, compared with .6 per cent in 1992: a very weak recovery of growth in general terms. This weak recovery, especially in the industrialized countries, entails a continued decline in the demand for export goods from the developing countries and a more abrupt decline in the prices of their raw materials, which are of vital importance to their economies. Bearing in mind the interdependence of the components of the global economy, it would be wiser for the developed countries to attach greater importance to the developing countries and to commit themselves truly to international cooperation founded upon revitalization of the economy and development in the interests of all. The problem of the environment, because of its importance in its relation to development, is still at the forefront of global concerns. We are still witnessing the pollution of our air, seas and oceans, abrupt climate changes, a steady depletion of the ozone layer, and desertification in many parts of the world. It is time for the developed countries and the developing countries to strengthen their international cooperation effectively and to take forceful measures to protect the environment, in accordance with their respective responsibilities and capacities and with the well-known Agenda 21, adopted in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in 1992. As for the drug problem, my delegation is pleased that the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly will devote special meetings to this subject. We intend to contribute to its consideration in view of the importance of this problem and its implications in the world at large and in our own country. The question of promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms still occupies a central place on the international agenda. Because it is so important and so sensitive, this question requires serious consideration on the basis of the principles of non-selectivity, objectivity and impartiality. To this we should add that the historic, cultural, political, social, economic and religious realities of each country need to be taken into account. From this standpoint, we are on the whole satisfied with the results obtained at the recent World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna, Austria, from 14 to 25 June 1993. With the end of bipolarization, it is important that States place their hopes in the United Nations, which is truly intended to be universal and institutional, capable of maintaining international peace and security, of promoting development and of having law and justice prevail the world over. So that it can live up to its new responsibilities, the Organization must also build its new structure. A revitalized, restructured United Nations made more democratic in its decision-making process, particularly in the 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Security Council, will certainly be able to play its rightful central role in the management of international affairs. States and peoples all over the world, large and small alike, powerful or weak, rich or poor, could benefit greatly from such a development. It gives me pleasure, at the outset, to extend to you the congratulations of the delegation of Morocco on your election to the Presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, and to express to you our best wishes for success in the discharge of your important duties. I would like to assure you of our full cooperation in ensuring the success of our deliberations. To the outgoing President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, I should like to express our appreciation for the wise manner in which he conducted the work of our deliberations during the past session. To our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, we would like to pay a special tribute for his tireless efforts to uphold the principles of the United Nations Charter, and to promote international peace and security in the world’s current difficult circumstances. I should also like to welcome to our midst the many new Members who have joined our Organization in recent months. As we approach the end of fifth decade since the establishment of our Organization, it is proper to evaluate its successes in attaining the goals set by the Conference of San Francisco in 1945, with a view to maintaining world peace and security and ensuring development, prosperity and social justice in a world free from the scourges of war, bigotry and racism. Our Organization was built on the ruins of a World War. It was therefore natural that the effects of that war’s aftermath left their imprint not only on the United Nations Charter but also on the rules that govern its work as well as on its structure. The rivalry between the two blocs contributed to the weakening of the effectiveness of the Organization in addressing international issues. However, to do justice to our Organization, one cannot but speak of its historic achievements in liberating people from the yoke of colonialism and foreign domination, its opening of its forums to dialogue between all nations, promoting cooperation between nations and peoples and its working for the settlement of conflicts by peaceful means. The end of the cold war, the collapse of what used to be called the Eastern Bloc and the sudden disintegration of the Soviet Union, were important and unexpected events of historic proportions. They transformed the world situation and altered its parameters. The result was a radical change in international relations, a profound shift in the balance of power and the emergence of underlying ethnic and national extremist trends which were suppressed under the former rule. Those have brought civil wars, unspeakable tragedies, suffering and destruction to many countries. While it has been difficult under such circumstances to find quick solutions to the old problems of the world as some would have hoped, new issues have arisen that have monopolized the attention of the international community, demonstrating the inadequacy of the means available to the United Nations and the United Nations inability to keep pace with the changes on the international scene. 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The often-sought intervention by the United Nations in areas as diverse as the peaceful settlement of conflicts and the organization and supervision of elections has resulted in an increase in its volume of work and has justified the call for the strengthening of the Organization and support for its work. Consolidating the role of our Organization is of great importance and enjoys the steady support of my country. Positive, vital and commendable as it may be, the role of the Organization remains, nevertheless, of limited impact and effectiveness because the Organization’s Charter and structure have not evolved sufficiently and because it lacks the financial resources that would enable it to meet the requirements of its international mandates in all their various aspects. Those transformations have given rise to new concepts, notions and priorities, such as preventive diplomacy, post-conflict peace-building, and brought to the fore such issues as those of human rights and of intervention on humanitarian grounds in the course of the ongoing global debate on what is termed 'the new world order' that is in the making. Moreover, the Summit meeting of the Security Council, held in January 1992 in New York, was a testimony to a common ambition to develop and regulate international action in such a way as to make it capable of meeting the requirements of the new situation in the world. As a current member of the Security Council, Morocco - represented by His Majesty King Hassan II - took part in that historic meeting and did not fail to express the sensitivities and concerns of the Muslim, Arab and African world, and contribute fully in the formulation of the final declaration. It is also in this context that the Secretary-General presented his thoughts and recommendations about peacemaking and peace-keeping in his report 'Agenda for Peace', which was favorably received by Member States. We believe that those thoughts, concepts and activities are a positive endeavour on the whole, but they contain certain aspects which might prove to be dangerous and even damaging. It is therefore imperative that those thoughts and concepts be clarified, with a view to defining their goals through an all-embracing dialogue between all States. This would lead to a consensus genuinely reflecting the concerns of all members of the international community. It is also necessary, now, to supplement those thoughts with views and reflections on how to correct the economic situation which does injustice to the rights of the developing world, whose economic interests have not been included in the international agenda. Nowadays, human rights issues are the subject of heated debate. Morocco, which firmly believes in the universal character and the comprehensive nature of those rights, regards them as a basic pillar of governance, social justice and civil liberties in any State. However, my country is equally of the view that the concept of human rights should be attuned to the values, cultures, traditions and the differing levels of development of countries, without any imposition of any particular concept of such rights. In other words, the political dimension of human rights should not prevail over the social and economic one, which covers the basic needs of man including food, clothing, health care and shelter. Our constant interest in and tireless efforts towards maintaining international peace and security and the settling of conflicts by peaceful means will be futile so long as the socioeconomic imbalance between the developed and developing countries continues to increase daily. The economic crises in the developing world have been greatly aggravated: unemployment and economic stagnation have been compounded by persisting problems in international trade, by foreign debt and by falling prices for raw materials. Morocco deplores the lack of genuine dialogue between the North and the South, which has created a situation in which sub-Saharan Africa claims less than 1 per cent of the world’s income while the developed countries, with only 15 per cent of the world’s population, control more than 80 per cent of world income. The discussions in international economic forums are almost exclusively centered on topics of direct concern to developed countries while the role of developing nations in the management of the world economy continues to be almost non-existent. In that respect, we regret that the request made by the current chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement to meet with the leaders of the G-7 last July in Tokyo, to explain the consequences of the present management of the world economy on the developing countries, was turned down. My country is convinced that unless the world economy is collectively managed in a manner that would take into account the interests of all countries without exception, it would be futile to look forward to an era in which global peace and security may prevail, and in which well-being and prosperity may be attained by all peoples of the world. Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 21 While we concede that the advanced countries too face a difficult economic situation, we maintain that they still have the potential and the ability to lend a helping hand to the developing world. We also maintain that the time has come for the developed countries to demonstrate true solidarity with the developing countries by giving them access to the economic decision-making process, and by helping them to develop their economies and improve their social standards. To this end, the developed countries could liberalize the world economy, open their markets to the products of the Third World, increase their investments in developing countries alleviate the debt-burden of those countries and enhance the effective transfer of technology to them. By the same token, we believe it is necessary for world economic relations to embark upon a new phase of genuine partnership and shared responsibility, within the context of economic interdependence. Such a new approach would prove much more beneficial to the countries of the North since deterioration of the economic and social situation in the South would inevitably have a negative impact on the security, stability and development of the North. While calling for a meaningful contribution by countries of the North to development, the countries of the South remain mindful of the need for self-dependence. Therefore most countries of the South have made the necessary adjustments, strengthened the structures of their economies and enhanced cooperation among themselves, by using available forums such as the Group of 77 and the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries. Morocco, which has always demonstrated its utmost readiness to promote South/South cooperation, is still committed to participate actively in these efforts, in particular with the African countries. Our keen interest in Africa stems naturally from solid bonds of common history, goals and destiny which link us to that continent whose concerns and ambitions we fully share. The lack of stability that characterizes the international economic situation led the African continent to a very alarming crisis which has been exacerbated by the falling prices of raw materials, a deterioration in the terms of trade, the heavy foreign debt-burden and drought. Despite the adoption by the forty-sixth session of the General Assembly of a new agenda for the development of Africa and the new reform programme adopted by the majority of African countries in conformity with the recommendations of the international financial institutions, the situation in our continent remains critical and calls for an exceptional effort to overcome this crisis. In this context, Morocco spares no effort to assist many African countries, for example, by writing off loans, extending valuable assistance in the areas of health care and education, and allocating more than 90 per cent of its international cooperation budget to the assistance of African countries. Moreover, Morocco has endeavoured, in consultation with other African countries bordering the Atlantic Ocean, to set up, in collaboration with the United Nations and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), a legal framework and relevant structures to create multilateral cooperation in the field of fisheries in order to safeguard the vital interests and national resources of these countries. The present is a crucial period of transition in the history of international relations, which, while it is marked by new and promising prospects of international cooperation, is fraught with the danger of the many hotbeds of tension which proliferate around the world and which give cause for concern. The Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the grip of a devastating war that irks the world conscience. This has been the result of the Serbian aggression against the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnian Serbs especially have not hesitated to perpetrate the crimes of genocide, ethnic cleansing, rape, and the destruction of houses of worship and historical and cultural monuments in furtherance of their shameful designs, in violation of the principles and norms of international law. It is regrettable that the many settlement plans and the endless meetings have resulted in nothing other than rewarding the Serbian aggressor and increasing pressure on the Muslim majority of that country. Having been unjustly deprived of the legitimate right to self-defence, the Bosnian Government had to make successive unilateral concessions. The Kingdom of Morocco cannot but strongly condemn the Serbian aggression aimed at the dismemberment of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a Member State of the Organization. It profoundly deplores the inertia of the international community and the inability of the United Nations to ensure proper compliance with and implementation of the principles enshrined in the Charter and in international law, those principles which have been repeatedly recalled in resolutions, often adopted under Chapter VII, by the Security Council. Somalia has recently experienced a cruel and destructive civil war which led to a dreadful famine that decimated tens of thousands of its people. A multilateral humanitarian rescue operation was launched with the aim of promoting national reconciliation and restoring the rule of law and the good functioning of government institutions. Morocco was one of the first countries to show its active solidarity with that sisterly African country in the framework of a multilateral humanitarian mission. My country sent an important military contingent to alleviate the suffering of the Somali people. In this context, Morocco volunteered to set up a complete military hospital in which more than 100,000 patients have received treatment. Unfortunately, we have recently seen the situation in Somalia change as a result of deadly confrontations that have claimed numerous lives. While deploring these tragic developments and condemning these reprehensible acts, we remain convinced that the solution to the Somali crisis hinges on continued negotiation and dialogue between all the parties, with the assistance of the United Nations, in order to achieve a genuine national reconciliation that would ensure peace, security and prosperity for our brethren in Somalia. Angola remains in the grip of a destructive civil war despite the peace agreement between the Government of Angola and the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA), which agreement was supported by the international community and the United Nations Organization. Inspired by its solidarity with the Angolan people, and determined to promote peace and security in this part of Africa, the Kingdom of Morocco, on several occasions has assisted the two parties in resolving outstanding problems through dialogue and negotiation. As a member of the Security Council, Morocco has voted in favour of all resolutions on this issue in the hope that the two parties would implement the Abidjan protocol, prepared with the help of the United States of America, the Russian Federation and Portugal, so that an end could be put to the cycle of war and destruction, and thus allow Angola to usher in an era of peace, security and stability. In South Africa, the cycle of violence continues to claim innocent victims. This must not slow down or side- track the democratic process or the current efforts aimed at transforming South Africa into a democratic, united and non- racial State. It is a source of satisfaction that the process of constitutional reform is proceeding despite the bloody acts of provocation perpetrated by extremists from various sides. Morocco, which has always encouraged dialogue between the parties concerned, wants to express its satisfaction at the establishment of a transitional Executive Council. We are hopeful that the parties will continue the dialogue and the process of reconciliation. Moreover, Morocco supports the appeal of Mr. Nelson Mandela, made before the Special Committee against Apartheid on 24 September 1993, for the lifting of the economic sanctions against South Africa. We are convinced that such an action will result in alleviating the economic burdens borne by the people of South Africa and will thus contribute to resolving their internal and external problems and give new momentum to the settlement process. Two weeks ago, the Middle East entered a new era as a result of the mutual recognition between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel, and the signing of an agreement allowing for a regime of self-rule, initially in the Gaza Strip and Jericho. Those two historic events have had a great impact on the situation in the Middle East, as this is the first time that the Palestinian and the Israeli sides have officially and publicly expressed their willingness to coexist and to recognize one another. Despite the strong impact of those two events, Morocco believes that the path to a genuine, comprehensive settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict is still long and that patience and perseverance are required in order to circumvent the many obstacles and difficulties that beset the process. This first decisive step should be strengthened and should be accompanied by a good measure of progress in the other bilateral negotiations. A real solution in the Middle East can be achieved only if the momentum for peace is allowed to run its full course and reach its goal with the consent of all the peoples of the region. To shoulder these responsibilities at this crucial and historical juncture, it is necessary to mobilize all efforts and to bring together all people of goodwill in order to achieve a just and comprehensive settlement that would be acceptable to all parties. Such a settlement should restore to the Palestinian people their rights, including their right to an Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 23 independent State on their soil with Jerusalem as its capital. It should also ensure the withdrawal of Israel from the other occupied Arab territories in Syria, Lebanon and Jordan, in conformity with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978). Only then can the Middle East, afflicted by war, violence and tragedies for more than half a century, enter upon an era of peace, security, disarmament, stability and cooperation between all the States of the region; this would bring about development, welfare and prosperity. In the Maghreb subregion, the Kingdom of Morocco firmly believes in the principles that formed the foundation of the Arab Maghreb Union; we adhere to the goals of the Union. We are firmly convinced that the future of the region and the prosperity of its peoples, linked as they are by history, language, religion and a common destiny, depend on the achievement of that unity. The Arab Maghreb Union has recently encountered some difficulties and obstacles. This, in our view, is only natural. However, we are determined to overcome such difficulties and to go forward in order to fulfil the ambition of the Maghreb people to build an effective structure of cooperation and solidarity for themselves. In the area of relations with the rest of the international community, Morocco and the other members of the Arab Maghreb Union view with special importance their relations with countries of the European Community on the one hand, and with its member States on an individual or Mediterranean basis on the other. The results achieved within the framework of dialogue and cooperation among countries bordering the Mediterranean are encouraging. We hope therefore that the current difficulties, which have prevented the resumption of that dialogue, will be overcome soon in order to promote a balanced regional cooperation between the northern and southern flanks of the Western Mediterranean. With regard to the so-called question of the Western Sahara, the Settlement Plan is being implemented, and the Secretary-General continues to bring all new developments to the attention of the Security Council. The Kingdom of Morocco, which has always cooperated with the Secretary- General and striven to facilitate his mission, has given its consent in principle to the compromise he proposed in the interpretation and application of the criteria for voter eligibility. We are confident that the Secretary-General will not fail to inform the Security Council of Morocco’s sincere and loyal cooperation and our constant readiness to implement the provisions of resolution 809 (1993) in all its aspects. It was in the same spirit of cooperation and reconciliation that Morocco agreed to the Laayoune meeting of last July where Sahrawis, in particular, from within the territory and from the region of Tindouf, took part and initiated a brotherly and positive dialogue. A close examination of conditions prevailing in the world as we stand on the threshold of the next century would clearly show that the strivings of humanity in the areas of world peace, justice and welfare fall short of the hopes it set out to realize and that the challenges in the way of meeting those goals are still difficult and numerous. What is most needed now is a new code of conduct for international relations, a code that would take into account the concerns of all peoples and countries of the world, restore balance to international dealings and bring the principles of justice and partnership to the management 24 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session of world affairs. We hold the view that the United Nations is the most suitable forum for discussions on this issue and for attaining our common goals. There can be no doubt that today 'transition' is the key word that defines the process that my country, along with others, is undergoing. The inclusion in the agenda of the General Assembly of an item on countries in transition exemplifies the Assembly’s capacity to respond swiftly to the concerns of its members. Last year, my predecessor stressed to the General Assembly the importance of Romanian society’s capacity to learn. Since then, my country has continued to learn that democracy, the rule of law, political pluralism, a market economy, and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are necessary conditions for individual potential and aspirations to be fulfilled. We have also learned that the transition will last longer than expected, that the challenges it presents are greater than we imagined and that its social costs are heavier than we first estimated. However, these bitter lessons do not in any way dissuade us from our irreversible choice: democracy and a market economy. As the Assembly may know, during 1992 free and fair local, general and presidential elections took place in Romania. The first stage of restructuring the political life and strengthening the rule of law has thus been completed. Clearly, the political process is still undergoing changes. Eleven parties are now represented in Parliament. Moreover, a special provision of our electoral law guarantees a seat in the legislature for each national minority, even if their political organizations did not obtain the required minimum of votes. At the same time, there is a slow but steady trend towards a clearer shaping of political diversity into stronger and better defined political forces. As for economic restructuring, in March 1993 the Government formed after the general elections presented its strategy for economic and social reform to the Romanian Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 21 Parliament. The central idea of this strategy is that the transition to a market economy should be as fast as possible. While focusing on privatization and structural changes, at both the macro-economic and micro-economic levels, the Government also pays particular attention to their social costs. This year we have taken some decisive steps. On 1 May the Government ended all subsidies for the production of consumer goods and as of 1 July the value added tax became the sole fiscal instrument. We already note a growing interest on the part of some major Western companies in investing in and cooperating with viable Romanian companies. This augurs well for the stimulation of economic activity. However, our economy still faces some major difficulties, inherent in the transition period. At the same time, unfavourable external circumstances have during the last three years triggered a dramatic fall in the output of important economic sectors. They include the reduction in economic cooperation with neighbouring countries and the adverse effects of the successive United Nations embargoes imposed on Iraq, Libya and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, all strictly observed by Romania. Our experience over recent years has shown that internal efforts can be decisively catalyzed by foreign assistance, both financial and managerial. Therefore, we believe that international assistance in the next few years could speed up our reform process and boost industrial production, while improving the Romanian economy’s integration into the world economy. To sum up, we can state at this juncture that the essential lesson we have drawn from this period of transition is that - in spite of undeniable difficulties - there is no turning back. We shall respect and follow the irreversible choice of the Romanian people to join the family of democratic nations. In our view, democracy and the new role of the United Nations are not only complementary, but mutually strengthening. In this respect, I should like to quote President Woodrow Wilson in his Address to the United States Congress on 2 April 1917, as follows: (spoke in English) 'A steadfast concert for peace can never be maintained except by a partnership of democratic nations. No autocratic Government could be trusted to keep faith within it or observe its covenant. It must be a league of honour, a partnership of opinions'. (spoke in French) These ideas are still valid, and constitute precisely the objective we must strive for, devoting all our efforts to strengthening and giving new substance to the role of the United Nations. While remaining loyal to its basic principles and goals, the Organization must naturally adapt to the new political climate. Deeply and sincerely committed to the spirit of the United Nations Charter, Romania intends to support fully the ideas and recommendations contained in the Secretary-General’s report 'An Agenda for Peace'. In so doing, my country regards the United Nations, as described in the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the United Nations, 'as the instrument of the body of Member States, and ... as more than the sum of its parts.' (A/48/1, para. 512) Mindful that implementing the lofty ideals of the United Nations requires adequate resources, we are ready to support fully every effort to make better use of resources, with the contributing nations having stricter control. Firm measures are needed. Accountability must become the watchword both for the Organization’s daily work and for its future projects. Enlargement and diversification of programmes for economic and social development and for protection of the environment are imperative. It is, however, important to make sure that money allocated to these programmes is not wasted on piles of paper and unnecessary travels around the world. Peace-keeping operations, which have undergone such an impressive expansion in recent years, have similar requirements. Increased attention should be given to the ratio of costs to benefits and control of the use of resources. The new political climate, which has brought an enhanced role for the Security Council, has made possible a more effective use of the United Nations potential for controlling and resolving conflicts. 22 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Romania is determined to contribute to the best of its ability to United Nations peace-keeping operations, and to this end has already started a special programme to increase its capacity to respond adequately to the requirements of the Organization or of other institutions. A first battalion of professional military personnel is already being trained for such operations; we estimate that it could become operational at the beginning of next spring. Given the need to enhance the capacity of the United Nations in this dynamic exercise of its functions, the support and cooperation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe are all the more needed and welcomed. In this regard, the contributions of other regional agreements and organizations, and particularly the praiseworthy work carried out by the North Atlantic Cooperation Council, are of great importance. At the same time, in order to preserve the prestige and credibility of peacekeeping operations and to ensure the confidence of the international community, such operations must strictly observe the principles and premises which have contributed to their success thus far. Therefore, we must be cautious in granting any unilateral authority that some countries might be tempted to assume in areas where they have special interests. This applies especially when there are doubts about the impartiality of forces involved, or when the necessary consent of the host country may be prejudiced by any kind of pressure. Wisdom and caution are all the more necessary in this respect, since we recognize the United Nations peace-keeping operations as an important dimension of a future new world order. Human beings and their creative potential must always remain the central focus of all our endeavours. We welcome the encouraging results of the World Conference on Human Rights, and we hope that these conclusions, including those concerning the creation of a post of High Commissioner for Human Rights, will be implemented as soon as possible. We also hope that the World Summit on Social Development, to be held in 1995, will be even more successful. I am very pleased to reaffirm that respect for the human person has become a generally accepted norm in our strategy for social development. Romania is now a party to almost all the major international agreements on human rights and is engaged with all openness in the relevant international procedures. International commitments to uphold human rights and the rule of law are closely linked to national legislation through a constitutional clause that enshrines the primacy of international regulations over domestic law. The admission of Romania as a member of the Council of Europe, as was recommended earlier today by an overwhelming majority in the Council’s parliamentary assembly, will complete this picture. In short, international standards and norms are at the same time our standards and norms. Certainly, progress, particularly in the field of human rights, is not just a matter of drafting and passing new laws and regulations: it is also a matter of their implementation in a social environment. No less important is the economic aspect. Standards of living and quality of life have a considerable impact on human rights. That is why we are striving to make social protection a basic dimension of our reform programme. The protection of the rights of people belonging to ethnic minorities is an integral part of the protection of human rights. In Romania there are 14 national and ethnic minorities registered as such through their political parties or organizations. All together they represent about 10 per cent of the population. Since 1989 we have been making steady efforts to institute measures to protect the rights of persons belonging to national minorities. The establishment this year of the National Council of Minorities broadened the institutional framework, enabling each and every national minority in Romania to take part in the decision-making process regarding the protection of their ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious identity. It is true that we have not responded completely to all their demands and aspirations. The explanation for this lies, not in a lack of will, but in the difficulties confronting the entire population. Yet we would underline that the excessive use of minority-related issues is harmful to the interests of minorities themselves, those of the majority of the population, and those of the international community as a whole. Unfortunately, such tendencies, expressing aggressive nationalism as well as xenophobia, racism and anti-Semitism, are still significant destabilizing factors and a threat to international peace and security in Eastern and Central Europe as elsewhere. Caution is therefore needed in dealing with these phenomena, as well as with the so-called new concept of the right to self-determination, in order to prevent any debasement of its legal content. Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 23 The Romanian delegation would like to avail itself of this opportunity to reaffirm its great satisfaction over the Israeli-Palestinian declaration of principles on Palestinian self-rule in Gaza and Jericho, signed on 13 September 1993 in Washington, D.C. In the view of the Romanian Government, their mutual recognition and the declaration of principles represent a triumph of the reason and political will of both the Israeli Government and the Palestine Liberation Organization, thus opening up new possibilities for peaceful coexistence and collaboration, not only between their two peoples, but among all the peoples in the region. The lion’s share of the credit certainly goes to the two parties directly involved, but we cannot overlook the contribution of the international community, of the United States Government, and of the Governments of other countries. In this connection, I am very pleased to recall the constant efforts deployed by my country for peace and understanding between the Israeli and Palestinian peoples. With regard to the conflict in the eastern region of the Republic of Moldova, the conclusions expressed last year by the Romanian delegation are, unfortunately, still valid in large part. No progress whatsoever has been made towards the political solution of the conflict. Moreover, we are witnessing a strange situation in which the commander-in- chief of the 14th Russian army - a foreign army on the national soil of an independent country without the consent of that United Nations Member - was recently 'elected' as a member of the so-called local parliament. In our opinion, the withdrawal of foreign troops is the key to the solution of the conflict in the Transdniestr area. We note with full satisfaction that a similar viewpoint is shared by the international community. A resolute affirmation of this position at the current session of the General Assembly would be instrumental in upholding the independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Moldova. The recent positive developments on the withdrawal of the Russian troops from the Baltic countries, an item which is to be debated at the current session of the General Assembly, could serve as a useful precedent. Within the same framework we should like to acknowledge the efforts of the mission of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) and to assure it of our full support for the accomplishment of its tasks. We favour the resumption of the quadripartite mechanism of meetings between the Ministers of Foreign Affairs from the Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation and Ukraine. The Republic of Moldova needs both the understanding and the support of the international community. A very promising sign in this respect is the prompt international reaction to the so-called trial in Tiraspol, where a group of persons was detained for political reasons by the self-proclaimed authorities of Transdniestr. Their lives are still in danger. This trial reveals the political nature of the conflict in the Republic of Moldova. Despite the energetic diplomatic efforts made to date, the conflicts in the former Yugoslavia are far from being resolved. As a neighbour and friend to all the successor States, Romania is genuinely interested to see the earliest possible resumption of normal life in that region. Putting an end to the sufferings of the people and to the continual life- threatening risks to the lives of the members of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) is an immediate imperative. Romania reiterates its great appreciation of the constant efforts deployed by the two Co-Chairmen of the Peace Conference on Yugoslavia. In this context we should stress the Romanian Government’s commitment to continuing its efforts for a peaceful settlement of the Yugoslav conflict and its support for the peace process co-sponsored by the United Nations and the European Community. Convinced that a negotiated peace is the only acceptable solution to the conflict, Romania will add its diplomatic efforts to those of other countries in the region. The success of our joint efforts is vital for the new Europe we wish to build and for the future stability of the region. In the context of the Yugoslav crisis, Romania complies strictly with the sanctions regime imposed by the relevant Security Council’s resolutions. Despite painful effects on our economy in the midst of a period of crisis and transition, we consider these measures a necessary means of supporting the peace-seeking efforts. The presence of European Economic Community and CSCE sanctions assistance missions and of a small Western European Union fleet that is patrolling the Romanian sector of the river has tightened the already-existing monitoring mechanisms. We have also engaged in close coordination with the other riparian countries. Notwithstanding these efforts, we have not received suitable compensation to defray our tremendous economic losses. We are certainly encouraged by the increasing awareness on the part of the international community and the Security Council, in the spirit of Article 50 of the United 24 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Nations Charter, with respect to the difficulties being experienced by Romania and other affected countries. We should like, however, to see this spirit given material form. The United Nations bodies and international financial institutions should respond to the needs of our countries rather than leave us to fend for ourselves in seeking solutions to the burdensome difficulties we face as a result of acting as loyal Members of the United Nations. We welcome the serious debate in various United Nations bodies on the issue of compensations. The recommendations adopted by the Committee of the Security Council established under resolution 724 (1991) express genuine moral support and solidarity. Unfortunately, we must accept the fact that moral support is not enough; we cannot face serious economic needs with nothing more than fine words. We await strengthened consultative mechanisms for considering concrete solutions to these problems, and we hope that the international financial institutions will be more receptive. This would bring well-deserved assistance to the affected countries, while at the same time increasing confidence in the authority of the United Nations Charter and its ability to preserve the dedication of countries to the cause of peace. We believe that the end of the cold war will result in new general and specific duties for the members of the international community. If our common goals as Members of the United Nations are democracy, peace and security, then solidarity is an essential means of achieving those goals. One of the most original contributions the United Nations could make during the current United Nations Decade of International Law would be to define the legal content of the 'duty of solidarity' which should be implemented in consonance with the universally accepted principles of jus gentium, democracy and human rights. In our view solidarity should become one of the central strategic values of the new world order. Undoubtedly we still live in a time of great challenges for the world community and the United Nations. Though it is true that many of the great expectations raised by the end of the cold war have not yet been fulfilled, we should not give up hope. The best way to turn hope into reality is to work together, leaving both unfruitful habits and selfish considerations behind us. Our joint efforts must, above all, be an expression of a vital, powerful solidarity and of confidence in what we can do together for a better tomorrow. Let me first congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly for this session. Mr. Secretary-General, distinguished representatives and guests, it is a great honour for me to address you and to stand in this great Hall, which symbolizes so much of the twentieth century - its darkest crises and its brightest aspirations. I come before you as the first American President born after the founding of the United Nations. Like most of the people in the world today, I was not even alive during the convulsive world war that convinced humankind of the need for this Organization, nor during the San Francisco Conference that led to its birth. Yet I have followed the work of the United Nations throughout my life, with admiration for its accomplishments, sadness for its failures and the conviction that, through common effort, our generation can take the bold steps needed to redeem the mission entrusted to the United Nations 48 years ago. I pledge to you that my nation remains committed to helping make the United Nations vision a reality. The start of this session of the General Assembly offers us an opportunity to take stock of where we are as common shareholders in the progress of humankind and the preservation of our planet. It is clear that we live at a turning point in human history. Immense and promising changes seem to wash over us every day. The cold war is over. The world is no longer divided into two armed and angry camps. Dozens of new democracies have been born. It is a moment of miracles. We see Nelson Mandela stand side by side with President de Klerk proclaiming a date for South Africa’s first non-racial elections. We see Russia’s first popularly elected President, Boris Yeltsin, leading his nation on its bold democratic journey. We have seen decades of deadlock shattered in the Middle East as the Prime Minister of Israel and the Chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization reached past enmity and suspicion to shake each other’s hand and exhilarate the entire world with the hope of peace. We have begun to see the doomsday weapons of nuclear annihilation dismantled and destroyed. Thirty-two years ago President Kennedy warned this Assembly that humanity lived under a nuclear sword of Damocles that hung by the slenderest of threads. Now the United States is working with Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and others to take that sword down, to lock it away in a secure vault, where we hope and pray it will remain for ever. It is a new era in this Hall as well. The super-Power standoff that for so long stymied the work of the United Nations, almost from its first day, has now yielded to a new promise of practical cooperation. Yet today we must all admit that there are two powerful tendencies working from opposite directions to challenge the authority of nation States everywhere and to undermine the authority of nation States to work together. From beyond nations, economic and technological forces all over the globe are compelling the world towards integration. These forces are fuelling a welcome explosion of entrepreneurship and political liberalization. But they also threaten to destroy the insularity and independence of national economies, quickening the pace of change and making many of our people feel more insecure. At the same time, from within nations, the resurgent aspirations of ethnic and religious groups challenge Governments on terms that traditional nation States cannot easily accommodate. These twin forces lie at the heart of the challenges, not only to our national Governments, but also to all our international institutions. They require all of us in this Hall to find new ways to work together more effectively in pursuit of our national interests and to think anew about whether our institutions of international cooperation are adequate to this moment. Thus, as we marvel at this era’s promise of new peace, we must also recognize that serious threats remain. Bloody ethnic, religious and civil wars rage from Angola to the Caucasus to Kashmir. As weapons of mass destruction fall into more hands, even small conflicts can threaten to take on murderous proportions. Hunger and disease continue to take a tragic toll, especially among the world’s children. The malignant neglect of our global environment threatens our children’s health and their very security. The repression of conscience continues in too many nations. And terrorism, which has taken so many innocent lives, assumed a horrifying immediacy for us here when militant fanatics bombed the World Trade Center and planned to attack even this very Hall of peace. Let me assure the Assembly that whether they be the plotters of those crimes or the mass murderers who bombed Pan Am flight 103, my Government is determined to see that such terrorists are brought to justice. At this moment of panoramic change, of vast opportunities and troubling threats, we must all ask ourselves what we can and what we should do as a community of nations. We must once again dare to dream of what might be, for our dreams may be within our reach. For that to happen, we must all be willing honestly to confront the challenges of the broader world. That has never been easy. When this Organization was founded 48 years ago, the world’s nations stood devastated by war or exhausted by its expense. There was little appetite for cooperative efforts among nations; most people simply wanted to get on with their lives. But a far-sighted generation of leaders from the United States and elsewhere rallied the world. Their efforts built the institutions of post- -war security and prosperity. We are at a similar moment today. The momentum of the cold war no longer propels us in our daily actions. And with daunting economic and political pressures upon almost every nation represented in this room, many of us are turning to focus greater attention and energy on domestic needs and problems, and we must. But putting each of our economic houses in order cannot mean that we shut our windows to the world. The pursuit of self-renewal in many of the world’s largest and most powerful economies - in Europe, in Japan, in North America - is absolutely crucial, because unless the great industrial nations can recapture their robust economic growth, the global economy will languish. Yet the industrial nations also need growth elsewhere in order to lift their own. Indeed, prosperity in each of our nations and regions also depends on active and responsible engagement in a host of shared concerns: for example, a thriving and democratic Russia not only makes the world safer, it also can help to expand the world’s economy; a strong GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) agreement will create millions of jobs world wide; peace in the Middle East, buttressed as it should be by the repeal of outdated United Nations resolutions, can help to unleash that region’s great economic potential and calm a perpetual source of tension in global affairs; and the growing economic power of China - coupled with greater political openness - could bring enormous benefits to all of Asia and to the rest of the world. We must help our publics to understand this distinction: domestic renewal is an overdue tonic; but isolationism and protectionism are still poison. We must inspire our peoples to look beyond their immediate fears towards a broader horizon. Let me start by being clear about where the United States stands. The United States occupies a unique position in world affairs today: we recognize that and we welcome it. Yet, with the cold war over, I know many people ask whether the United States plans to retreat or remain active in the world; and if active, to what end? Many people are asking that in our own country as well. Let me answer that question as clearly and plainly as I can. The United States intends to remain engaged and to lead. We cannot solve every problem, but we must and will serve as a fulcrum for change and a pivot point for peace. In a new era of peril and opportunity, our overriding purpose must be to expand and strengthen the world’s community of market-based democracies. During the cold war, we sought to contain a threat to the survival of free institutions; now we seek to enlarge the circle of nations that live under those free institutions. For our dream is of a day when the opinions and energies of every person in the world will be given full expression, in a world of thriving democracies that cooperate with each other and live in peace. With this statement, I do not mean to announce some crusade to force our way of life and doing things on others or to replicate our institutions. But we now know clearly that throughout the world, from Poland to Eritrea, from Guatemala to South Korea, there is an enormous yearning among people who wish to be the masters of their own economic and political lives. Where it matters most and where we can make the greatest difference, we will therefore patiently and firmly align ourselves with that yearning. Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 9 Today, there are still those who claim that democracy is simply not applicable to many cultures and that its recent expansion is an aberration, an accident in history that will soon fade away. But I agree with President Roosevelt, who once said: 'The democratic aspiration is no mere recent phase of human history. It is human history.' We will work to strengthen the free market democracies by revitalizing our economy at home, by opening world trade through GATT, the North American Free Trade Agreement and other accords, and by updating our shared institutions, asking with you and answering the hard questions about whether they are adequate to the present challenges. We will support the consolidation of market democracy where it is taking new root, as in the States of the former Soviet Union and all over Latin America, and we seek to foster the practices of good government that distribute the benefits of democracy and economic growth fairly to all people. We will work to reduce the threat from regimes that are hostile to democracy and to support liberalization of non-democratic States when they are willing to live in peace with the rest of us. As a country that has over 150 racial, ethnic and religious groups within our borders, our policy is and must be rooted in a profound respect for all the world’s religions and cultures. But we must oppose everywhere extremism that produces terrorism and hate. And we must pursue our humanitarian goals of reducing suffering, fostering sustainable development and improving health and living conditions, particularly for our world’s children. On efforts from export controls to trade agreements to peace-keeping, we will often work in partnership with others and through multilateral institutions such as the United Nations. It is in our national interest to do so. But we must not hesitate to act unilaterally when there is a threat to our core interests or to those of our allies. The United States believes that an expanding community of market democracies not only serves our own security interests, it also advances the goals enshrined in this body’s Charter and its Universal Declaration of Human Rights. For broadly based prosperity is clearly the strongest form of preventive diplomacy, and the habits of democracy are the habits of peace. Democracy is rooted in compromise, not conquest. It rewards tolerance, not hatred. Democracies rarely wage war on one another. They make more reliable partners in trade, in diplomacy, and in the stewardship of our global environment. And democracies, with the rule of law and respect for political, religious and cultural minorities, are more responsive to their own people and to the protection of human rights. But as we work towards this vision, we must confront the storm clouds that may overwhelm our work and darken the march towards freedom. If we do not stem the proliferation of the world’s deadliest weapons, no democracy can feel secure. If we do not strengthen the capacity to resolve conflicts among and within nations, those conflicts will smother the birth of free institutions, threaten the development of entire regions and continue to take innocent lives. If we do not nurture our people and our planet through sustainable development, we will deepen conflict and waste the very wonders that make our efforts worth doing. Let me talk more about what I believe we must do in each of these three categories: non-proliferation, conflict resolution and sustainable development. One of our most urgent priorities must be attacking the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction - whether nuclear, chemical or biological - and the ballistic missiles that can rain them down on populations hundreds of miles away. We know this is not an idle problem. All of us are still haunted by the pictures of Kurdish women and children cut down by poison gas. We saw SCUD missiles drop during the Gulf War that would have been far graver in their consequences if they had carried nuclear weapons. And we know that many nations still believe it is in their interests to develop weapons of mass destruction or to sell them or the necessary technologies to others for financial gain. More than a score of nations likely possess such weapons and their number threatens to grow. These weapons destabilize entire regions. They could turn a local conflict into a global human and environmental catastrophe. We simply have got to find ways to control these weapons and to reduce the number of States that possess them by supporting and strengthening the International Atomic Energy Agency and by taking other necessary measures. 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session I have made non-proliferation one of our nation’s highest priorities. We intend to weave it more deeply into the fabric of all of our relationships with the world’s nations and institutions. We seek to build a world of increasing pressure for non-proliferation but increasingly open trade and technology for those States that live by accepted international rules. Today, let me describe several new policies that our Government will pursue to stem proliferation. We will pursue new steps to control the materials for nuclear weapons. Growing global stockpiles of plutonium and highly enriched uranium are raising the danger of nuclear terrorism for all nations. We will press for an international agreement that would ban production of these materials for weapons for ever. As we reduce our nuclear stockpiles, the United States has also begun negotiations towards a comprehensive ban on nuclear testing. This summer I declared that to facilitate those negotiations, our nation would suspend our testing if all other nuclear States would do the same. Today, in the face of disturbing signs, I renew my call on the nuclear States to abide by that moratorium as we negotiate to stop nuclear testing for all time. I am also proposing new efforts to fight the proliferation of biological and chemical weapons. Today, only a handful of nations has ratified the chemical weapons Convention. I call on all nations - including my own - to ratify this accord quickly so that it may enter into force by 13 January 1995. We will also seek to strengthen the biological weapons Convention by making every nation’s biological activities and facilities open to more international scrutiny. I am proposing as well new steps to thwart the proliferation of ballistic missiles. Recently, working with Russia, Argentina, Hungary and South Africa, we have made significant progress toward that goal. Now we will seek to strengthen the principles of the Missile Technology Control Regime by transforming it from an agreement on technology transfer among just 23 nations into a set of rules that can command universal adherence. We will also reform our own system of export controls in the United States to reflect the realities of the post-cold- war world, where we seek to enlist the support of our former adversaries in the battle against proliferation. At the same time as we stop deadly technologies from falling into the wrong hands, we will work with our partners to remove outdated controls that unfairly burden legitimate commerce and unduly restrain growth and opportunity all over the world. As we work to keep the world’s most destructive weapons out of conflicts, we must also strengthen the international community’s ability to address those conflicts themselves. For as we all now know so painfully, the end of the cold war did not bring us to the millennium of peace. Indeed, it simply removed the lid from many cauldrons of ethnic, religious and territorial animosity. The philosopher Isaiah Berlin has said that a wounded nationalism is like a bent twig, forced down so severely that when released, it lashes back with fury. The world today is thick with both bent and recoiling twigs of wounded communal identities. This surge of bitter conflicts has placed high demands on the United Nations peace-keeping forces. Frequently, the Blue Helmets have worked wonders. In Namibia, El Salvador, the Golan Heights and elsewhere, United Nations peace-keepers have helped to stop the fighting, restore civil authority and enable free elections. In Bosnia, United Nations peace-keepers, against the danger and frustration of that continuing tragedy, have maintained a valiant humanitarian effort. And if the parties to that conflict take the hard steps needed to make a real peace, the international community - including the United States - must be ready to help in its effective implementation. In Somalia, the United States and the United Nations have worked together to achieve a stunning humanitarian rescue, saving literally hundreds of thousands of lives and restoring conditions of security to almost the entire country. United Nations peace-keepers from over two dozen nations remain in Somalia today - and some, including brave Americans, have lost their lives - to ensure that we complete our mission and that anarchy and starvation do not return just as quickly as they were abolished. Many still criticize United Nations peace-keeping, but those who do should talk to the people of Cambodia, where the United Nations operations helped turn the killing fields into fertile soil for reconciliation. Last May’s elections in Cambodia marked a proud accomplishment for that war-- weary nation and for the United Nations. And I am pleased to announce that the United States has recognized Cambodia’s new Government. United Nations peace-keeping holds the promise to resolve many of this era’s conflicts. But the reason we have supported such missions is not, as some critics in the United States have charged, to subcontract American foreign policy, but to strengthen our security, to protect our interests, and to Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 11 share among nations the costs and effort of pursuing peace. Peace-keeping cannot be a substitute for our own national defence efforts, but it can strongly supplement them. Today there is wide recognition that the United Nations peace-keeping ability has not kept pace with its rising responsibilities and challenges. Just six years ago, about 10,000 United Nations peace-keepers were stationed around the world. Today the United Nations has some 80,000 deployed in 17 operations on four continents. Yet until recently, if a peace-keeping commander called in from across the globe when it was night-time here in New York, there was no one in the peace-keeping office even to answer the call. When lives are on the line, we cannot let the reach of the United Nations exceed its grasp. As the Secretary-General and others have argued, if United Nations peace-keeping is to be a sound security investment for our nation and for other United Nations Members, it must adapt to new times. Together, we must prepare United Nations peace-keeping for the twenty-first century. We need to begin by bringing the rigours of military and political analysis to every United Nations peace mission. In recent weeks in the Security Council, our nation has begun asking harder questions about proposals for new peace-keeping missions. Is there a real threat to international peace? Does the proposed mission have clear objectives? Can an end point be identified for those who will be asked to participate? How much will the mission cost? From now on the United Nations should address these and other questions for every proposed mission before we vote and before the mission begins. The United Nations simply cannot become engaged in every one of the world’s conflicts. If the American people are to say 'Yes' to United Nations peace-keeping, the United Nations must know when to say 'No'. The United Nations also must have the technical means to run a modern, world-class peace-keeping operation. We support the creation of a genuine United Nations peace- keeping headquarters with a planning staff; with access to timely intelligence; with a logistics unit that can be deployed on a moment’s notice; and with a modern operations centre with global communications. United Nations operations must not only be adequately funded but also fairly funded. Within the next few weeks, the United States will be current on our peace-keeping bills. I have worked hard with the Congress to get this done. I believe the United States should lead the way in being timely in its payments, and I will work to ensure that we continue to pay our peace-keeping bills in full. But I am also committed to working with the United Nations to reduce our nation’s assessment for these missions. The assessment system has not been changed since 1973, and everyone in our country knows that our percentage of the world’s economic pie is not as great as it was then. Therefore, I believe our rate should be reduced to reflect the rise of other nations that can now bear more of the financial burden. That will make it easier for me as President to make sure my country pays in a timely and full fashion. Changes in the United Nations peace-keeping operations must be part of an even broader programme of United Nations reform. I say that, again, not to criticize the United Nations but to help improve it. As our Ambassador, Madeleine Albright, has suggested, the United States has always played a twin role in regard to the United Nations: 'First friend and first critic.' Today, corporations around the world are finding ways to move from the industrial age into the information age - improving service, reducing bureaucracy and cutting costs. Here in the United States, Vice President Al Gore and I have launched an effort literally to reinvent how our Government operates. We see this going on in other Governments around the world. Now the time has come to reinvent the way the United Nations operates as well. I applaud the initial steps the Secretary-General has taken to reduce and reform the United Nations bureaucracy. Now we must all do even more to root out waste. Before this General Assembly is over, let us establish a strong mandate for an office of inspector general, so that it can attain a reputation for toughness, for integrity, for effectiveness. Let us build new confidence among our people that the United Nations is changing with the needs of our times. Ultimately, the key for reforming the United Nations, as for reforming our own government, is to remember why we are here and whom we serve. It is well to recall that the first words of the United Nations Charter are not, 'We the Governments', but 'We the peoples of the United Nations'. That means, in every country, the teachers, the workers, the farmers, the professionals, the fathers, the mothers, the children, from the most remote village in the world to the largest metropolis - they are why we gather in this great Hall; it is their futures that are at risk when we act or fail to act; and it is they who ultimately pay our bills. As we dream new dreams in this age when miracles seem possible, let us focus on the lives of those people, and especially on the children who will inherit this world. Let 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session us work with a new urgency, and imagine what kind of world we could create for them over the coming generation. Let us work with new energy to protect the world’s people from torture and repression. As Secretary of State Christopher stressed at the recent Vienna Conference, human rights are not something conditional, bounded by culture but, rather, something universal, granted by God. This General Assembly should create, at long last, a high commissioner for human rights. I hope it will do this soon, and with vigour and energy and conviction. Let us also work far more ambitiously to fulfil our obligations as custodians of this planet, not only to improve the quality of life for our citizens and the quality of our air, water and the earth itself, but also because the roots of conflict are so often entangled with the roots of environmental neglect and the calamities of famine and disease. During the course of our campaign in the United States last year, Vice President Gore and I promised the American people major changes in our nation’s policy towards the global environment. Those were promises to keep, and today the United States is doing so. Today we are working with other nations to build on the promising work of the United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development. We are working to make sure that all nations meet their commitments under the global climate Convention. We are seeking to complete negotiations on an accord to prevent the world’s deserts from further expanding. And we seek to strengthen the World Health Organization’s efforts to combat the plague of AIDS, which is not only killing millions, but also exhausting the resources of the nations that can least afford it. And let us make a new commitment to the world’s children. It is tragic enough that one and a half million children have died as a result of wars over the past decade. But it is far more unforgivable that during that same period 40 million children have died from diseases completely preventable with simple vaccines or medicines. Every day - this day, as we meet here - over 30,000 of the world’s children will die of malnutrition and disease. As the Director of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), Jim Grant, has reminded me, 'each of [those children] had a name and a nationality, a family, a personality and a potential'. We are compelled to do better by the world’s children. Just as our own nation has launched new reforms to ensure that every child has adequate health care, we must do more to get basic vaccines and other treatments for curable diseases to children all over the world. It’s the best investment we’ll ever make. We can find new ways to ensure that every child grows up with clean, drinkable water - that most precious commodity of life itself. And the United Nations can work even harder to ensure that each child has at least a full primary education - and I mean that opportunity for girls as well as boys. To ensure a healthier and more abundant world, we simply must slow the world’s explosive growth in population. We cannot afford to see the human race double by the middle of the next century. Our nation has at last renewed its commitment to work with the United Nations to expand the availability of the world’s family planning education and services. We must ensure that there is a place at the table for every one of the world’s children. We can do this. At the birth of this Organization, 48 years ago - another time of both victory and danger - a generation of gifted leaders from many nations stepped forward to organize the world’s efforts on behalf of security and prosperity. One American leader during that period said this: 'It is time we steered by the stars rather than by the light of each passing ship.' His generation picked peace, human dignity and freedom. Those are good stars. They should remain the highest in our firmament. Now history has granted to us a moment of even greater opportunity, when old dangers are ebbing and old walls are crumbling. Future generations will judge us, every one of us, above all by what we make of this magic moment. Let us resolve that we will dream larger, that we will work harder, so that they can conclude that we did not merely turn walls to rubble, but instead laid the foundations for great things to come. Let us ensure that the tide of freedom and democracy is not pushed back by the fierce winds of ethnic hatred. Let us ensure that the world’s most dangerous weapons are safely reduced and denied to dangerous hands. Let us ensure that the world we pass to our children is healthier, safer and more abundant than the one we inhabit today. I believe - I know - that together we can extend this moment of miracles into an age of great works and new wonders.I wish sincerely to congratulate the representative of Guyana on his unanimous election to the distinguished post of President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. This is an expression of great respect for him and his country. I cannot fail to note the enormous amount of hard and complicated work, deserving of the highest appreciation, that Mr. Stoyan Ganev, a representative of the friendly, fraternal Bulgarian people, carried out in that post. We welcome and congratulate the Czech Republic, Slovakia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Monaco, Andorra and Eritrea, which have this year become Members of the United Nations. The end of the twentieth century will undoubtedly go down in history as a time of tectonic shifts in international relations. With our own eyes we have seen the huge tectonic plate of the cold war, with its intense confrontation between two super-Powers and two ideologies, sink into the past. Living space for a new world order has been opened up. What will it look like? The end of the last century was filled with dire forebodings reflected in a surrealistic quest, and those forebodings have, unfortunately, been borne out. The difficult twentieth century has become the century of confusion for the human soul and human society, and of the extreme tension of antagonisms that have many times brought civilization to the brink of destruction. Today feelings and expectations are different. At the end of the century, it would seem, the foundation is being laid for harmonizing new ways of life in the international community. But the establishment of a new world order is not as painless as one might imagine. Changes in the balance of power and the dynamism of international relations often mutate unforeseeably into chaotic scenes of tense contradiction and conflict. World Powers, alliances of States and newly emerged countries are searching for their identity and rethinking their role in an entirely new world. Not always can an organizing vector or a system of values, guidelines and ideas inspiring all of us be felt in this world. In this situation, there is a new perception of the potential role of the United Nations. I believe that this organizing role of the United Nations is more lofty, more significant and more realistic than the one formerly assigned to it in the post-war decades, which in fact was unfeasible in the context of confrontation between the super-Powers. It is precisely this role for the United Nations in a new world that the Republic of Belarus advocates most actively. It is at this precise moment that the potential of both the United Nations Charter and the Organization itself as a centre for harmonizing and coordinating the action of nations is being realized. The United Nations, as the Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has emphasized is truly becoming irreplaceable. Undoubtedly, the new role of the United Nations requires a new level of efficiency in the Organization, particularly in its main bodies - the Security Council and the General Assembly. The Republic of Belarus supports the reforms aimed at helping the Organization adapt to the fundamentally new realities and making the procedures of its main bodies more democratic. But in surging forward, one should not lose contact with the ground under one’s feet. Reforms, responsibilities and the future are those reference points on which we believe we should constantly focus our attention. 26 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session At this decisive moment, the Security Council is becoming the centre of attention, like a magic crystal ball in which one can discern the future. Naturally, reforming the Council, including expanding its membership, requires an especially responsible approach. Mindful that in these new conditions, this most important United Nations body cannot remain the same as it was designed and created almost half a century ago, we support a careful search for consensus on all issues related to its reform. Changes in the Security Council - especially today, when its work has become much more intensive - should not hamper the productiveness of its efforts. To a large extent these efforts depend, in our view, on well-coordinated activities among all of the Council’s 15 members, on their adherence to the purposes and principles of the Charter of the Organization and on their highly conscientious, responsible attitude, proved, through real deeds, to the entire international community. The Republic of Belarus, as representatives know, is one of the candidates for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for 1994 to 1995. Today, on the eve of the golden jubilee of the United Nations, the fiftieth anniversary of its creation, it is appropriate to recall that at the time of the inception of the World Parliament back in 1945, Belarus was a founding member of the United Nations, having been among the first to sign its Charter. It is appropriate to recall here that we have gained a certain amount of experience through working in the Security Council from 1974 to 1975. It is also true that we have been represented in that important body the fewest number of times compared to our friends and colleagues in the regional group, but we hope that this injustice will be redressed at the forthcoming elections. The new historical conditions which led to the creation of the Commonwealth of Independent States, with Minsk as the host city for its coordinating organs, have made us take a fresh look at our role and at our possibilities of participating in the life of the international community. This is also attested to by the joint support of the Commonwealth and of a number of friendly States for Belarus’s candidature for non-permanent membership in the Security Council. For us, the submission of the candidature of the Republic of Belarus for membership in the Security Council does not represent merely a spontaneous political gesture nor a hankering for pro-forma prestige. Historical circumstances are such that the experience and the potential of Belarus, at this very difficult moment in the formation of a new world order, can be of great importance to the international community. Let us take a look at this experience and potential in those areas which have become very important for preserving global peace and security, as is widely recognized and attested to even by this current debate. I deal first with the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. As representatives are aware, Belarus is one of the four States that inherited strategic nuclear potential from the former Soviet Union. In our case, this is an important modern arsenal located in the heart of the European continent on mobile strategic missiles. It directly affects global security, the nuclear balance and nuclear non- proliferation. Belarus, however, renounces the prestige of a nuclear State, the sword of Damocles referred to here by President Clinton, and has chosen non-nuclear status. Having made the appropriate commitments, we are fulfilling them in practice. In 1992 we were the first to remove tactical nuclear weapons from our territory; in fact, that was done ahead of schedule. Last February, the Parliament of Belarus virtually unanimously ratified the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START I) and the Lisbon Protocol to that Treaty, and also took the decision to accede, as a non-nuclear State, to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. In July of this year the instruments of accession were deposited in Washington, Moscow and London. I wish to emphasize that since May 1992 - that is, since the signing of the Lisbon Protocol - we have never given any grounds for anyone to doubt the honesty, logic and consistency of our actions. Of all the States which are the nuclear heirs to the Soviet Union, Belarus was the first, and still the only one, to have rejected nuclear weapons in practice. Moreover, it did so without any preconditions or reservations. Thus, for the first time in the history of the international community, a sovereign State has voluntarily renounced a real opportunity to possess and develop nuclear potential. This is truly a large-scale contribution by Belarus to global security and the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. I wish to emphasize once again that our words and deeds are not at variance. Having put forward from this lofty rostrum in 1990 the idea of creating a non-nuclear belt from the Baltic to the Black Sea, we have, to the best of our abilities, been transforming our territory into part of such a belt. We hope that in due course our idea will be supported and developed by our neighbours. Of great concern to the international community is the threat of illegal exports from the territory of the former Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 27 Soviet Union of nuclear materials, technology and equipment, which can fall into irresponsible hands. Responding to this danger, Belarus was the first State of the region to enter into a large-scale agreement with the United States to set up a stringent system for export control. Work on implementing this agreement is already under way. Other initiatives put forward by my country are no less familiar to the United Nations. After many years of effort by Belarus, there has been agreement on international machinery that has the potential to prevent States from replenishing their arsenals with new types of weapons of mass destruction. During this session we intend to continue our active work in this area. Taking an authoritative position on these issues, Belarus, on behalf of and on the instructions of the States of the Commonwealth of Independent States, intends during this session to present a joint declaration by the Commonwealth of Independent States on issues of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems. I turn now to reductions in conventional weapons. Our country does not manufacture battle tanks, and never has. Yet we now have more tanks per capita than any other European State - another part of the difficult heritage of the former Soviet Union. When we decided to accede to the Treaty on Conventional Forces in Europe, we knew full well that Belarus would have to eliminate 1.7 times more tanks than the United States, 10 times more than the United Kingdom and 50 times more than France. That disproportionate burden is not taken into consideration in the Treaty, since the Republics of the former Soviet Union had no opportunity to participate in its preparation. At stake, however, was the fate of a highly important international agreement on which many European countries had been working for more than 20 years, and so as not to torpedo all that work and set Europe back many years we undertook that excessive burden, at great cost to ourselves. Now, Belarus is making an enormous contribution to strengthening regional and international security by destroying the weapons of what was the most powerful military tank district in the former Soviet Union. We are doing this with extreme difficulty, because of the problems of the present transitional period. I would note that this often results in a lack of understanding among our own people: during an energy crisis, we are destroying tanks while we lack the energy resources to carry out our crop- sowing campaign. Weapons are immoral, just as the Moloch of war is immoral. But the process of disarmament has turned out to be far from idyllic: a catch-phrase of our century - 'Guns before butter' - has been fulfilled in a most unexpected way, for the destruction of the guns has done nothing to increase the supply of butter. In reducing its conventional weapons, Belarus is guided by the interests of all, and is entitled to expect reciprocity from other States in overcoming its difficulties. On the whole, the heritage of the former Soviet Union has been a difficult one: an economy among the most highly militarized, and large military contingents. Suffice it to say that at the start of 1992 there were three times as many soldiers and officers per thousand civilians on our territory as there were on average in the USSR. Working sincerely to keep Belarus neutral, our Parliament and our Government have adopted a policy intended to demilitarize the national economy, including a 50 per cent reduction in our army over five years and the development and adoption of a defensive military doctrine. Having lived over the centuries through the horror of numerous wars, and having lost in their flames millions upon millions of its citizens, the Republic of Belarus will do its utmost to ensure that the firestorm of military confrontation will never again consume its territory. I shall deal now with ethnic conflicts. Acute and bloody ethnic, religious and intercommunal clashes have become a dangerous feature of the new world. The deep, often irrational, roots of these conflicts pose an especially difficult challenge to the entire international community, for they do not respond to simple prescriptions for settlement. In Belarus, profound social transformations are taking place against a background of unique mutual tolerance among varied ethnic, cultural and religious groups within our society. Not a single drop of blood has stained the soil of Belarus during this difficult time of transition. We shall continue to do our best so that Belarus, nestled in the very heart of the European continent, can continue to set an example of political, ethnic and religious balance. Belarus is unique in its humanistic spirit, which can guarantee stability and irreversible democratic reform, and 28 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session we sincerely offer to the Security Council our experience of coexistence among different ethnic groups and the centuries- old tradition of national, cultural and religious tolerance that is a feature of our country. I am sure that tolerance can be an important key to the resolution of any conflict. With international effort, we can succeed. It was tolerance in the highest sense of the word that made possible a recent handshake, which finally opened the way to what had seemed the impossible: a Middle East settlement. It is tolerance that will determine the success of the process under way in South Africa, and it is a lack of tolerance that is delaying the settlement of the crisis in Bosnia. Instability; ethnic and religious clashes; ethnic and regional separatism; internal political strife: they have all reached tragic levels in the post-Soviet areas. In a number of cases, they have grown into local military conflicts, and even wars. The internal stability of Belarus and its position at the centre - serving as host to the coordinating bodies of the Commonwealth of Independent States - give Belarus the potential to be a peacemaking mediator in such conflicts. For example, we sincerely wish to help settle the problem of Nagorny-Karabakh. Belarus remains ready to assist in convening the international conference on Nagorny- Karabakh, under the auspices of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), to be held in our capital, Minsk, on a date to be determined by the participants. We believe that the neutrality proclaimed by Belarus is an international asset. This constitutional objective enables us to adopt a wider, unbiased approach to determining our positions on various issues. We do this taking due account of the realities of today’s world and of our place in that world. We strive to pursue our policies in such a way as to lay the foundation for a prosperous and neutral Belarus. Specifically, we are moving towards the development and implementation of the principles of democracy. The Belarus Parliament is in the final stages of considering our new Constitution, which will consolidate the irreversibility of the democratization of our State. We are building a new political structure: new political parties, national, social and political movements, and hundreds of civic organizations have been officially registered and have begun their political activities. Among these organizations is the League for the Protection of Human Rights. The evolving human-rights status of Belarus is up to international standards. As early as 1991 we ratified the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and recognized the competence of the Human Rights Committee, in keeping with article 41 of the Covenant. Belarus commends the results of the second World Conference on Human Rights, held this year in Vienna. The Conference in particular reiterated the obligations of States to ensure completely and effectively all human rights and fundamental freedoms without any discrimination whatever against persons belonging to national minorities. We attach great importance to this provision. Belarus has created and is still creating all the necessary conditions for national minorities that live in its territory so that they can fully enjoy human rights. But at the same time we are far from being indifferent to the treatment of Belarusians who live beyond our national territory and will continue in future to follow closely the situation of more than 2 million ethnic Belarusians who live in different countries of the world. Economic reforms are gaining ground in the Republic. A gradual movement towards a market economy has increased the level of openness of the economy and has limited the State’s monopoly in a number of areas of life. Concrete steps towards creating a private sector have been taken. The law on private landed property, which is of fundamental importance in this respect, has been in force since 1 September. The adoption of these legislative acts, like the laws on property, entrepreneurship, and foreign investment, has created the basis for the further development of market relations. Right now Belarus is on the threshold of a wider stage of its privatization. The Republic of Belarus, like other States of this region, is vitally concerned about developing and strengthening multilateral cooperation in the economic field. We believe that there are forms of discrimination and limitation with respect to the States of Central and Eastern Europe which should, along with the cold war, become a thing of the past. Any delay here will be at variance with the political and economic realities of the world. Belarus is striving to lift barriers and limitations in the field of trade and has taken a decision to start negotiations on its accession to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). We also hope that very soon the Uruguay Round will be successfully completed. Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 29 Integration on a new level of economic activity within the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) is especially urgent for us. Belarus was one of the main initiators for setting up an economic union within the framework of the CIS and of concluding an appropriate agreement to that effect. It is with great pleasure that I state that an agreement on setting up such an economic union was signed recently, under the chairmanship of Mr. Shushkevich, in Moscow at the meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the CIS. This opens up favourable prospects for the economic stabilization of the Commonwealth of Independent States and for the gradual overcoming of the most acute problems of this transitional stage. I am convinced that the agreements reached in Moscow will mark a transition towards radically new relations, that is, market relations, and will inevitably lead to the formation on that basis of the eastern European commonwealth, a geopolitical and economic group of a market type that will gradually, but at the same time consistently and unswervingly, become integrated into European and world economic structures. These new prospects encourage us also because they will help Belarus, I hope, in the near future to strengthen its real capacity to pay and settle to a large extent the problem of our financial obligations to the United Nations. We are well aware of the acuteness of the financial situation of the Organization. That is why, despite our own extremely difficult economic and financial situation, the Government of Belarus recently made a contribution amounting to $3.5 million to the budget of the Organization and, in effect, has fully settled its arrears. I wish to assure Members of the United Nations that we will continue to do what we can within our very limited resources. But the United Nations itself through its main organ the General Assembly must take steps to have the financial obligations of Belarus strictly match our real capacity to pay. In particular the new realities warrant a decision without further delay on the relocation of our country from Group B to Group C in the scheme of the apportionment of expenses for United Nations peace-keeping operations. At the beginning of my statement I mentioned the great hopes for the future which Belarus places on United Nations activities. However, there is one very special area for us in which United Nations assistance is vitally important, and that is the environment and our 'eternal wound that does not heal' - Chernobyl - the most terrible nuclear disaster. Along with the growth of cancer, especially among children, of great concern to us recently has been the social and psychological stress among our people. The birth rate has fallen dramatically and the number of psychogenic diseases has been growing rapidly. People are overwhelmed by a concern about their health and the health of their children. This has also affected the pace of the Republic’s transition to new social and economic realities. We call upon the United Nations, in close cooperation with the Commission of the European Communities, to continue their efforts to further study and overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. We hope that in the process of reforming the United Nations system and its Secretariat the necessary institutional and programme mechanisms will be worked out to further carry out Chernobyl-related activities in the interests of the entire international community, taking into consideration the great significance and uniqueness of the lessons of the Chernobyl tragedy. The activities carried out by the new United Nations Coordinator on Chernobyl, Mr. Jan Eliasson, the beginning of whose work is greatly appreciated by us, gives us hope that the United Nations potential will be used actively enough to yield tangible practical results. In the post-Chernobyl era we need moral and psychological support, sometimes simply compassion. In this connection I should like to recall the words of a great Russian writer, Fyodor Dostoyevsky, who is connected to Belarus by birth. He once declared that beauty and the nobility of human relations would save the world. To that I would add compassion because they in effect are inseparable since beauty is always noble while compassion and nobility are always beautiful. Belarus, living through the post-Chernobyl nightmare, having over centuries survived the nightmare of many raids, invasions and wars, poverty and hardship, understands the pain, the suffering, of the peoples of the developing countries as no other country does. Poverty, diseases, child mortality, in many parts of the world cannot leave people of good will indifferent. Indeed it is immoral to fail to take note of this. I am convinced that the new world order will entail a fairer distribution of the world’s wealth and it will be marked by assistance to those who for decades have been unjustifiably doomed to poverty, stagnation and predictable backwardness and have had to be content with the remaining crumbs of the wealth produced by them but then redistributed and not in their favour. As one of the original members of the Commission on Sustainable Development, our country is striving to 30 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session contribute to its work in a way that reflects the ecological and economic interests of all groups of States in a balanced manner. We support efforts to elaborate an international convention on desertification; the search for a solution to the problems of the small developing island States; and the search for new and additional resources for developing countries. Aware, under the conditions of post-Chernobyl realities, of the significance of ecological problems in finding a solution, Belarus has been actively supporting the implementation of the decisions and recommendations of the first-ever summit in history held in the interests of the Earth. The Parliament of the Republic of Belarus has already ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity and is now examining the issue of acceding to the Convention on Climate Change. We support priority consideration of ecological problems within the context of international cooperation, and the Republic of Belarus supports the idea of transforming, in the near future, the Commission on Sustainable Development into the United Nations council on ecological security. We are ready to contribute to the elaboration of its structure and mandate. The United Nations is moving from the old epoch to the new one with an imposing baggage. Certain parts of it have already become obsolete and will be of interest only to historical researchers; others contain the grains of that new future role to be played by the United Nations in this quickly evolving world which I have already spoken about - for example, a positive and future-oriented experience of large- scale peace-keeping operations in Namibia and Cambodia. Standing on the threshold of the third millennium, one can hardly envisage all of the details of the general picture of the future world. However, the prospects that lie ahead are what matters most, and they are clearly visible. From the role of cease-fire organizer to the role of peace guarantor, from the role of peace guarantor to the role of co-organizer of life in the international community, a wise and authoritative arbitrator whose political will is without doubt recognized by all: that is the way we see the role of the United Nations in the next century. Meeting the challenges of the time, Belarus is ready to work together with other friendly States, including, if this is the will of the General Assembly, within the Security Council of the United Nations. At the outset, I should like, on behalf of the Government and people of Mali, to convey to the people of India our profound grief at the heavy loss of life and the massive material damage caused by the earthquake that has just struck their country. I have pleasure in expressing to Mr. Insanally the heartfelt and cordial congratulations of the delegation of Mali on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I wish him every success and assure him of my delegation’s fullest cooperation. Let me take this opportunity also to express our satisfaction at the exemplary manner in which Mr. Stoyan Ganev presided over the Assembly’s work at the last session. It is also a pleasure to congratulate the United Nations Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, on the constant efforts he has made since he became head of the Organization. The United Nations now consists of 184 Member States. This confirms its universality, gives it further credibility and explains the renewed interest in seeing it fulfil its promise. Our warmest congratulations go to all the new Members. We assure them of our full readiness to cooperate with them. The world is most certainly living through times of great change. Ever since the events of 26 March 1991, Mali has been resolutely embarked on a process of democratization. However, this process is unfolding in especially trying circumstances. In strictly national terms, the transition to democracy, which was achieved through the elections of 1992, though essentially a success, is being prolonged by new 44 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session uncertainties. With regard to social values, one finds a serious identity crisis and a lack of orientation among the young, in the workplace and among the traditional players in the private-sector economy. There is uncertainty also about the way in which the new political institutions operate, as these need to go through a period of apprenticeship in a democratic context, where impatience and violence coexist with a readiness for dialogue and for solidarity. Uncertainty is to be found also with regard to the new mission, size, operation and performance of an administration in transition, which must be more transparent and accessible to people at the grass roots. Uncertainty is to found, finally, in economic development programmes characterized by the urgent need for in-depth structural adjustment and the need to reallocate public resources to satisfy priority necessities: a basic education, public health provision, village water supplies and maintenance of the infrastructure. At the subregional level, which for Mali encompasses both western Africa south of the Sahara and the Arab Maghreb, we are dealing with such complex and difficult problems as instability borne of local conflicts, followed by human tragedy, because the number of refugees in the subregion has risen from approximately 20,000 in 1989 to more than 1.2 million in 1993; the slow pace of economic integration, despite all the very vocal declarations of goodwill, which is restricting growth in the subregion; and religious questions which are daily gaining more ground and subjecting political institutions to new trials that are more delicate, more difficult to define and cope with and more terrible. The Government of Mali believes that to cope effectively and efficiently with those problems and the many challenges in the process of democratization, we will have quickly to restore economic growth and then develop human resources, the true way to a successful future, achieve medium-term and long-term stability and thus find the economic key to development. Finally, we shall have to guarantee balanced development and comprehensive financing for development. In all this, our Government does not forget and, indeed, it is meeting its international obligations as well. By the same token, we continue to advocate and to work internationally for a world of peace and concord where it should be possible to find a solution to all problems by dialogue and negotiation. This courageous political evolution should be strongly supported because the adverse impact of a disadvantageous economic situation, along with drastic structural adjustment measures and problems linked to debt, compounded by socio-political tension, is having an adverse impact on the entire democratic process. The international environment in which this session is being held is marked by many uncertainties linked to the life of the Organization and of the international community in general. The post-war period saw the emergence of new democracies and the strengthening of protection for human rights the world over. Over the past three years the Organization has taken on a number of commitments. In terms of peace-keeping, the declaration made on 31 January 1992 at the Summit of the Heads of State or Government of the member States of the Security Council, set milestones to be reached in establishing a new international order. While remaining committed to the quest for international peace and security, we believe that any peacekeeping operation must come within a precise framework defined by the Security Council. Any loss of control may jeopardize the very credibility of the Organization. Notwithstanding the Organization’s efforts in the search for international peace and security, hotbeds of tension, alas, persist around the world. In Bosnia and Herzegovina inter-ethnic confrontation and clashes have reached unimaginable proportions. The international community seems, paradoxically, to be watching passively the breakup of a country upon exclusively ethnic and religious grounds. That is setting alarming precedents. In Angola, despite the many efforts by the United Nations, the situation remains alarming. My delegation appeals to all the parties to commit themselves more intensively to seeking a just and lasting resolution of this conflict. The situation prevailing in Somalia is a threat to peace and security in that region. The presence of the United Nations, through the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II), should in principle hold out the promise of bringing peace to the country and a negotiated political resolution of the crisis. Humanitarian aid has made it possible to avoid irreparable damage being done, but we believe that UNOSOM II must attempt to silence the guns and create a climate favourable to reconciliation among all Somalis. Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 45 Whilst areas of serious tension persist, we would do well to welcome the positive turn of events in the settlement of other conflicts. In Liberia hope has been rekindled, with the recent signing of the Cotonou Agreement, the entry into force of the cease-fire and the setting up of the high Council of State. The expansion of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Military Observer Group (ECOMOG) and greater involvement by the United Nations in implementing the agreement might lead to the rebirth of the Liberian State. This is the time and place to appeal to the international community immediately to create support funds and to implement the Cotonou Agreement. In Mozambique the acceptance of a new timetable to implement the Peace Agreements will promote the implementation of the United Nations Operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ). We pay tribute to the parties for respecting the cease-fire. As to the conflict in Rwanda, we are reassured by the sense of responsibility being displayed by the Government and the Rwanda Patriotic Front. The signature in Arusha on 4 August last of an agreement between the two parties proves that a political settlement of a conflict is always possible if all sides have the will. We therefore welcome this determination of the parties concerned and encourage them to pursue dialogue and strictly and scrupulously to implement the requirements of the Agreement in observing the cease-fire. The United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) should strive, for their part, to consolidate this major achievement. In South Africa the multiracial negotiations will certainly see the advent of a democratic, non-racial and united South Africa. The United Nations must pursue its cooperation with the Organization of African Unity to support the process. However, the Government in place must take forceful measures to put an end to the wave of violence sweeping the country. The insecurity is fertile ground for anarchy and disorder. We welcome the turn events have taken in the referendum process under way in Western Sahara with the cooperation of all parties. The joint efforts of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity to bring about a negotiated settlement can, we are convinced, succeed if the parties directly concerned continue their cooperation. It is therefore necessary for their decision-making bodies to work closely with the United Nations Identification Commission to resolve the last remaining obstacles linked to criteria for identifying electors and establishing proof of identity. My delegation reaffirms its support for the process. Mali has been following with keen interest the latest developments on the question of Palestine. The mutual recognition of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and the State of Israel, followed by the signing of a declaration of principles on Palestinian autonomy in Gaza and Jericho, mark a major step towards a just and lasting settlement of the question of Palestine and the establishment of relations of trust between the peoples of that region. My delegation hails the Israeli-Palestinian rapprochement, fruit of the courage and political realism of the leaders of both parties and the praiseworthy efforts around the world to make the negotiations a success. We invite all the parties concerned to give tangible expression to this remarkable spirit so as to bring about a definitive peace in the Middle East in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions. In Haiti the signing of the Governors Island Agreement and the New York Pact should soon make it possible for the legitimate President of that country to return. We hail the steps taken by the Secretary-General and his Special Envoy, which have made it possible to attain the results achieved so far. Elsewhere - in Cambodia, Afghanistan and El Salvador - we praise the efforts to bring about progressive normalization. With regard to the dispute pitting Libya against certain other Member States, the Government of Mali reaffirms its support for implementation of Security Council resolutions 731 (1992) and 748 (1992). We condemn terrorism in all its forms. In supporting the resolutions adopted in this context by the Organization of African Unity, the Arab Maghreb Union and the Organization of the Islamic Conference, among others, the Government of Mali hopes for continued negotiation and action from the Secretary-General. A just and equitable resolution of this crisis and a rapid lifting of the embargo would contribute to creating a climate of peace and security in the subregion and to removing a major factor preventing the economic development of the peoples concerned. As to the Korean peninsula, my delegation encourages the pursuit of the negotiation process set in train and strongly hopes that it will lead to the peaceful reunification of the two Koreas. 46 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session I now revert to development issues of particular importance to the African continent: the situation of the least developed countries; the problems of children and women and population issues; and environmental problems - in particular, desertification. The adoption in Paris in 1990 of a programme of action for the least developed countries rightly gave rise to a great deal of hope. We cannot but note, however, that three years after its adoption, the economic results have not come up to expectations. According to a 1992 report of the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD): 'For the least developed countries as a whole, per capita income declined in 1990 and again in 1991. There is little hope that 1992 will be better, and the prospects for 1993 are scarcely promising.' It is therefore important to abide by the commitments made at the Paris Conference aimed at improving the economic situation of the least developed countries. By the same token, so far as the land-locked countries are concerned, steps must be taken to follow through on the conclusions and recommendations of the Meeting of Governmental Experts from Land-Locked Countries and Transit Developing Countries and Representatives of Donor Countries and Financial and Development Institutions, held in New York in May 1993, in implementation of resolution 46/212. The Declaration and Plan of Action adopted at the World Summit for Children and the goals spelled out for the 1990s on that occasion have set new targets for improving the living conditions of children the world over. All members of the international community are called upon to contribute to the implementation of commitments made at that Summit. In this connection, we must also see to the implementation of the Consensus of Dakar of 1992, which emerged from the International Conference on Assistance to African Children. My delegation has high hopes of international meetings to be held over the next several years on resolving social problems, both at the individual State level and internationally. The World Summit for Social Development, scheduled for 1995 in Copenhagen, will be a key event for our Organization. We expect good results from that Summit and hope that it will contribute to narrowing the gap between social groups within a single entity, North and South. The World Conference on Women, scheduled to be held in 1995 in Beijing, will also afford us an opportunity to review the various programmes and initiate further action aimed at establishing an effective policy to bring women into the development process. Another important gathering will be the World Conference on Population and Development, scheduled for 1994 in Cairo. This Conference will make it possible to define a new strategy for developing human resources, having regard to economic and environmental factors. Environmental problems now occupy an important place in national, regional and international development programmes. The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro in June 1992, laid the groundwork for sound joint management of development. Agenda 21, the Convention on Climate Change and the Convention on Biological Diversity demonstrated the readiness of the signatories of those historic documents to move away from current production and consumption patterns. Implementing commitments made in Rio requires mobilizing substantial financial resources for developing countries and strengthening their scientific, technical and institutional capabilities. Mali welcomes the creation by the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) of the Commission on Sustainable Development, in accordance with resolution 47/191. At its first session, held in June 1993, the Commission dealt with fundamental problems which must be solved if Agenda 21 is to become a reality. One of the chief goals is to mobilize financial resources. Restructuring the Global Environment Facility (GEF), democratizing its management rules and decisionmaking rules and mobilizing additional resources must facilitate the execution of the various chapters of Agenda 21. Fighting drought and desertification is one of the main goals that African countries have set for themselves. My country, two thirds of whose surface is desert, and which has suffered the terrible impact of drought over the last 20 years, welcomes the setting up of the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee for the elaboration of an international convention to combat drought and desertification. At the two substantive Committee sessions held respectively in Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 47 Nairobi, in June this year, and in Geneva, in September this year, there was an evaluation of the problem of desertification. Information was exchanged and data that can be taken into account in future negotiations were collected. My delegation hopes that the current negotiations on the convention to fight drought and desertification will lead to a real commitment so that the international conference scheduled for Paris will be a real success. The issues I have just raised show that the problems of keeping peace and maintaining international security, as well as the problems of economic, social and environmental development, are all major challenges that continue to face mankind as it approaches the threshold of the third millennium. My delegation feels that to meet these challenges we must, in view of the fundamental changes since the 1960s, promote greater democratization and a fairer division of international responsibility. Thus developing countries that have won international sovereignty, and that represent nearly two thirds of the population of our planet, rightly call for representation on the Security Council as permanent members. Meeting these challenges also requires close cooperation and real solidarity amongst all the players on the world stage. This means that it is more than ever necessary to reflect deeply on and re-examine, the principles and rules for international cooperation. The restructuring exercise to revitalize the economic and social sectors of the United Nations affords us an opportunity to make our Organization more dynamic in development matters and to ensure that it plays a central role, in keeping with the provisions of its Charter and the relevant General Assembly resolutions. My delegation, while welcoming the progress made in reforming the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) and certain of its subsidiary bodies, believes that our thinking must go beyond strictly institutional terms. In any event, my country feels that the imperative of restructuring is to maintain and indeed strengthen the United Nations capacity for intervention in development matters. In implementing this policy we must pay particular attention to furthering and strengthening South-South cooperation through socio-economic programmes based upon the realities within the developing countries. Indeed, the revival of economic and technical cooperation between developing countries is an integral part of a strategy aimed at restoring growth and development worldwide. Finally, my country supports the efforts of the Secretary-General to make the administrative machinery of the United Nations more efficient by avoiding duplication and minimizing operating costs. For several years now the world has been going through major changes. If these profound transformations are to benefit all mankind, they must be accompanied and supported by concrete action making it possible to guide them in the right direction. While these upheavals have been managed successfully by some States, their extent has taken others by surprise, and the problems have exceeded their ability to contain and control them. Lacking the means, they find aid from the international community indispensable. It is at this level that many expect intervention from our Organization, and we can indeed help. The people and Government of Mali have made important, clear choices: first, to consolidate the strong suits of a Malian nation that is united, though diverse in its cultural and racial composition, as it is carefully and irreversibly building a progressive democracy; secondly, to carry out in-depth economic reform in harmony with the needs of worldwide free trade and with the concerns of our partners in the international community; thirdly, to implement a bold policy of involving our people in managing their own affairs and simplifying legislation and public programmes; and fourthly, to pursue long-term sustainable development in a framework of institutions for subregional and regional economic integration and in partnership with all our friends across Africa. We believe that the United Nations and the international community have everything to gain from supporting our original and exciting experiment, the hallmark of a new kind of international relations, at once nobler and more rewarding. At this juncture, on the eve of the twenty-first century, when the concepts of democracy, human rights and world-wide cooperation are on the ascendancy, I stand before this session of the United Nations General Assembly to share with Members Bangladesh’s views on the current world situation. I am here to affirm our commitment to the emerging faith in the prospects for peace, prosperity and balanced development throughout the world. In the light of the realities of the world today, the United Nations is universally accepted as the most effective platform for multilateralism. I should like to take this opportunity to reaffirm our unwavering confidence in the United Nations. Before proceeding, I should like to extend to Ambassador Insanally our most cordial greetings on his election to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly. We are confident that his wisdom and experience will add new dimensions and dynamism to the activities of the United Nations. At the same time, we are also grateful to our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session determined efforts, which have given new vigour to the activities of this forum. He has been guiding the United Nations with great dexterity and success through a critical period of transition. I should like to reiterate our continued support for his endeavours in fulfilling his important task. Five new nations have recently joined us in the United Nations. I welcome them in our midst. We look forward to working in close cooperation with our new Members: Andorra, Eritrea, the Czech Republic, Monaco, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Slovakia. An unprecedented rise in democratic aspirations world-wide precipitated the end of the cold war. There is a growing optimism about the prospect of a new world economic order based on equitable distribution of resources and human rights. Bangladesh is proud to have played a definite role in the world-wide resurgence of democracy. About two and a half years ago, we succeeded in establishing a truly democratic Government following the elimination of the old autocratic regime, which had lasted about a decade. Democracy and development are mutually reinforcing. Our success on the road to democracy depends largely on our ability to tackle the challenge of alleviating poverty. We have many limitations: there is a lack of capital; we lag behind in technology. Handicapped by resource constraints as we are, it is not possible for us to undertake this difficult task alone: we need the cooperation of all. Today, democracy is universally recognized as the best political system. Democracy aims at building a prosperous society by creating avenues for the unstinted development of human creativity and skill. If the process of development is disrupted, democracy and stability are threatened. Nurturing the emerging democratic spirit in the third-world countries calls for sincere cooperation from the developed industrialized nations. Today there exists a yawning gap between the economies and cultures of the developed countries of the North and those of the developing countries of the South. But one must realize that poverty is not the same as bankruptcy: the South, where Bangladesh belongs, has a glorious past, when there was economic and cultural prosperity. We are now engaged in the task of building a new future based on our culture, tradition and availability of resources. For us, it is a matter of pride and satisfaction that our people’s love for freedom has found concrete shape in the establishment of democracy. We want to emphasize human creativity and human capacity to toil. The much-talked-about new concept of a 'human development index' does not seem to be adequate: we feel that it must capture the indigenous culture and values of differing civilizations. We believe that a new dimension will be added to the overall development framework of the less developed countries if this proposal is accepted. Our prime objective is to build a prosperous society and economy by consolidating national independence, sovereignty, human rights and democracy. This calls for guaranteeing the security of small States like ours. As we work on new equations in international relations, the United Nations must take effective measures to ensure the security of small States. The hopes and aspirations of millions of people are linked to this. We feel that in the new world order that is taking shape following the end of the cold war, mutual respect between large and small States should be the only recognized norm. In order to ensure a future free from war and conflict, it is imperative that we ensure the sovereignty of small States. We believe that the international rule of law has a vital role to play in ensuring the security of small and weak States. The priority areas in this context are: a river-water convention; the law of the sea; environmental protection; and the status of refugees, economic migrants and displaced persons. Universal acceptance of the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice without reservation has become an urgent necessity in the pursuit of peace. We all live on the same planet. World civilization today and its accumulated store of knowledge is the joint achievement of all peoples of the world. Everyone has a claim to an equal share of the world’s resources and prosperity. The great disparity that exists in the field of technology must be removed; therefore, we want a free flow of technology. We feel that the exclusivity of intellectual property rights is a great hindrance, frustrating the transfer of technology; we call upon all concerned to refrain from taking a selfish view in this regard. A similar discriminatory attitude is also evident with regard to the flow of information: this is contrary to the concept of a free flow of information throughout the globe. In order to establish a well-balanced world community, it is imperative to ensure the free flow of both information and technology. Our existence is inseparable from the existence of our planet, and the existence of our planet is threatened today. The ecological balance is being disrupted, but the blame is being conveniently shifted to the developing countries: Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 21 unfair conditions regarding the environment are being imposed on them. In many ways, the industrially developed countries are mainly responsible for environmental pollution. Given the resource constraints of the developing countries, their capacity to pollute the environment is very insignificant: they are more preoccupied with resolving their economic problems. We believe that the major responsibility for the prevention of environmental pollution lies, therefore, with the developed countries. Those industrially developed countries that pollute the environment in catering for their peoples’ demands for high living must bear the responsibility of mending the damage done. We are acutely conscious of the need to protect the environment. We are frugal in our use of fuel, electricity and water resources. Bangladesh’s industrial sector contributes only marginally to environmental pollution. Our jute industry and jute products are more acceptable, in environmental terms, than various chemical and synthetic products. However, in the face of the massive expansion of the use of synthetic fibres that pollute the environment our jute industry is threatened with extinction. Millions of people in several countries, including Bangladesh, depend on the jute industry for their living. Thus, the production of synthetic fibres must be stopped, in the interests of the environment as well as of the millions who toil in the jute sector. We call upon the donor countries and the aid organizations, in providing assistance, to pay due attention to our indigenous initiatives and development programmes. The success of the development process would thus become almost impossible. Unrealistic conditions create unnecessary obstacles in the way of the development process and the smooth progress of democracy. In this context, I admit that a State cannot hope to become self-reliant through external aid and assistance alone. What we really need is liberalization of trade. Unfortunately, however, in the field of external trade the developing countries are being subjected to all sorts of discrimination by the developed countries. This must give way to strong and realistic North-South trade links based on equality. To this end, the immediate and satisfactory conclusion to the Uruguay Round of negotiations has become imperative. Together with development assistance, we seek trade and investment. In Bangladesh we have created a highly congenial climate for external investment. Contemporary experience has proved that the desired development cannot be achieved through dependence on external assistance alone; it is essential that trade and investment be expanded at the same time. We are engaged in an earnest endeavour to achieve economic prosperity by building upon our indigenous heritage. We are striving to forge a more productive and efficient workforce. We have made considerable progress in the field of structural reform of the economy. Inflation is at its lowest level. After long years of recession, there has been a definite increase in the rate of growth in agriculture and industry. We have also made considerable progress in the expansion of education. We have launched the programme entitled 'Food for Education' as a means of ensuring the right to education of the poorer sections of our population. We aim to achieve a literacy rate of 60 per cent by the year 2000. We have initiated a national social programme with a view to restricting the population within a desirable level. Our efforts have brought us to the threshold of self-sufficiency in the production of food grains. In consonance with current world trends, we have also subscribed to a market economy. As I said earlier, in economic considerations poverty is the main economic challenge that we face. In tackling this challenge, we have adopted a new development model, whose purpose is to ensure extensive participation by the people in the development process. We have adopted the 'Daal Bhaat' programme, which envisages the provision of basic nutrition for the poor and deprived masses and the development of human resources. We are expanding sanitation and primary health care facilities throughout the country. Special priority is being given to the integration of women in the development process. In this area, the Grameen Bank, the Rural Development Board and the Agricultural Bank are making a commendable contribution. We must encourage regional cooperation as a supplement to our efforts in multilateral cooperation. Against this backdrop, the seven countries of South Asia set up the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). As the current Chairperson of SAARC, I am trying to intensify development cooperation between the member countries. During the seventh SAARC Summit, which was held in Dhaka in April this year, we adopted some specific programmes for poverty alleviation. Besides, initiatives have also been taken to further promote cooperation in various fields, including trade, education and culture. Along with regional cooperation, we have attached priority to the development and strengthening of good 22 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session neighbourly relations and to the resolution of outstanding bilateral problems with our neighbours. Unfortunately, however, some issues remain unresolved with our neighbour India, the most important one being the sharing of water. We have not yet succeeded in convincing India as to what is our fair share of water from the rivers that flow through the two countries. We share 54 rivers. Historically, and under international law, we have a right - an inherent and legal right - to the water resources of the common rivers. But since completion of the Farakka Barrage, India has been unilaterally drawing Ganges water upstream. Withdrawal of water during the dry season causes serious drought, while the release of excess water during the rainy season produces severe floods in Bangladesh. This has created unimaginable adverse effects on the economy and environment of Bangladesh. The pledges given by India when the Farakka Barrage was commissioned remain unfulfilled. This unilateral withdrawal of water, in complete disregard of the interests of the people of Bangladesh, has brought more than 40 million people in the Ganges basin - or, rather, the Padma basin - face to face with catastrophe, with disaster. The Farakka Barrage has become, for us, an issue of life or death. Owing to obstruction of the natural flow at the Barrage, a process of desertification is evident throughout the northern and western parts of Bangladesh. As a result, vegetation is dwindling, and, in the south, the spreading salinity threatens industries and agriculture with ruin. Increased siltation is reducing the navigability of rivers. Fish and animals will soon be in danger of extinction. Innumerable people, in various occupations, who depended on the river Padma for their living are becoming unemployed. Many are being uprooted from their homes and hearths. While the whole world is voicing concern about protection of the environment, a large proportion of Bangladesh’s population is being pushed to the threshold of poverty and destruction. This is nothing but a gross violation of human rights and justice. To put it simply, our economic structure is faced with disaster because of the Farakka Barrage. India could have played an important role in strengthening mutual trust between the two countries if it had lived up to its pledges on the question of water sharing. We feel that this is still possible. We believe that the world community sincerely wishes to see Bangladesh succeed in its struggle to dislodge the burden of poverty that has accumulated over the ages. But how can we, with our meagre resources, ever hope to achieve that objective if man-made obstacles stand in our way? Bangladesh wishes, therefore, to draw the attention of the world community to this issue, in the interest of establishing human rights, protecting the right to natural resources and ensuring the process of development. Something must be done urgently to end this inhuman treatment of the people of Bangladesh. We firmly believe that arrangements must be made to ensure a fair sharing of the water resources of the Ganges by signing a permanent agreement immediately. We believe in the policy of friendship, cooperation and peaceful coexistence with all countries of the world. We have unwavering faith in the principle of the resolution of all problems with all countries, and particularly with our neighbours, through peaceful negotiations. Congenial conditions have been created for the return of the tribal refugees who left their homes in the Chittagong Hill districts and have been in India for a long time. This became possible following a bilateral understanding that was reached with India last May. Despite obvious economic, social and environmental difficulties, Bangladesh has given shelter to 250,000 refugees from Myanmar. Bangladesh has not sent back even one single refugee by force. I am happy to report that after constructive negotiations with all parties concerned, including Myanmar and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), a congenial atmosphere has been created for the safe and voluntary repatriation of the refugees. We hope this will lead to a permanent solution of the problem. Our hopes for a new, peaceful international order were raised following the end of the cold war. But these hopes seem to be fading in the face of current realities. The forces of communalism, racialism and regional hegemony are raising their heads in different regions of the world. As a result, mankind is threatened. The blatant violation of the national and human rights of the Bosnian Muslims at the hands of the armed Serbian aggressors is a matter of great shame for the whole of mankind. The oppression and genocide unleashed by the Serbs against unarmed civilians in the name of the abhorrent policy of 'ethnic cleansing' is a source of agony for all people of conscience. The unabated perpetration of this genocide naturally focuses attention on the unequal application of the concept of human rights. A nation and its existence as a State are being obliterated solely because of religious hatred. The double standard of supplying arms to the Serbs and the Croats while the Muslims remain unarmed is tantamount to violation of human rights. In the interest of establishing human rights Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 23 and justice, we call upon the United Nations and all the powerful States of the world to take definite steps to preserve the independence and sovereignty of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bangladesh has always hoped for world peace and prosperity. Active participation in United Nations peace-keeping efforts has been a priority for us. Some of the significant examples of such participation are the monitoring of elections in Namibia, policing the cease-fire line in the Gulf, clearing mines and contributing to reconstruction efforts in Kuwait and assisting the United Nations peace efforts in Cambodia, Somalia and Mozambique. We strongly support the strengthening of the financial and institutional base of peace-keeping and its growth. We are concerned at the observation on the financial crisis of the world body made by the Secretary-General in his report. We urge the affluent Member States to come forward and assist in overcoming the crisis to keep the United Nations strong and effective. The recent historic accord between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel is a positive first step towards the establishment of a long-waited peace in the Middle East. We welcome this initiative. We hope that Israeli withdrawal from all occupied Arab territories, including Jerusalem, and the establishment of an independent Palestinian State will be the final objective of these efforts. We remain steadfast in our support for the struggle of the people of South Africa to achieve their cherished goal of equal rights and majority rule. In response to the appeal made here in the Assembly by Nelson Mandela, our Government is moving towards lifting economic sanctions against South Africa. Vicious cycles of starvation and violence, a breakdown of central authority and endless conflicts continue to bedevil in varying ways the situations in Somalia, Angola, Liberia, Rwanda and Mozambique. We call upon the United Nations to take comprehensive measures to establish peace in these areas in a more effective manner. Thirteen years ago, during a similar session of this forum, Bangladesh’s great leader and a champion of the interests of the third world, the late President Ziaur Rahman, issued a clarion call: 'We must face the challenge of the contemporary world. The need of the hour is for bold and imaginative action. We will not find solutions if we cling to outdated concepts and institutions. We must act in concert and work for a better and nobler life for all sectors of the family of mankind.' (Official Records of the General Assembly, Eleventh Special Session, 3rd plenary meeting, para. 46) His words are all the more significant today. We are poised at a critical juncture in the advancement of world peace and stability. No doubt violence, aggression, racism, ethnic and religious conflict and gaping social and economic disparities still exist. Despite these contradictions, there is today a greater confidence and conviction that a brave new world is truly within our reach. We are faced with a rare opportunity to sustain the momentum towards the peaceful resolution of conflicts, to strengthen the rule of law and to raise the quality of life in greater freedom. Democratic values, the human spirit, human solidarity and the appropriate realization of human development are central to achieving these objectives. Today, as we approach the end of the twentieth century, we look forward to a balanced, tolerant and happy world community where democracy, peace, development and human welfare will be equally available to all. This was really the driving force behind the establishment of the United Nations. We have spent half a century in pursuit of this goal. As we enter the coming century, this must not remain a mere dream. Let this be our pledge to the next generation. First of all, may I be permitted to join previous speakers in expressing deep sadness and sorrow at the loss of thousands of lives in Killari, India, as a result of the tragic earthquake on 30 September 1993. On behalf of the Government and people of Cambodia may I offer our profound condolences to the Government of India and to the relatives of the victims. It is a privilege and an honour for me to address the General Assembly at their forty-eighth session as the First Prime Minister of the democratically elected Royal Government of Cambodia, where, in accordance with the mandate given to the Organization by the Paris Agreements of 23 October 1991, the United Nations has played a historic, decisive and successful role in ending 23 years of suffering and misery for our people. May I express a warm welcome and congratulations to Mr. Samuel Insanally of the Republic of Guyana on his election as President of the United Nations General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I am sure that Ambassador Insanally will lead the deliberations of this body to a successful conclusion. I also wish to convey our warmest thanks and appreciation for the tireless work undertaken by his predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of the Republic of Bulgaria, for his judicious and capable management of the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session. Cambodia welcomes Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, Monaco, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Macedonia to this international body. Their decision to become Members of the United Nations will no doubt help to strengthen peace and security in the world. On behalf of His Majesty, Norodom Sihanouk, King of Cambodia, of His Excellency, Mr. Hun Sen, Second Prime Minister of the Royal Government of Cambodia, and on behalf of our people, may I be permitted to express our profound and everlasting gratitude to Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, former Secretary-General of the United Nations; to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, current Secretary-General of the United Nations; and to Mr. Yasushi Akashi, Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations in Cambodia, who are the artisans of the success of the United Nations operation in Cambodia, which has brought to our people peace, freedom, independence and the beginning of a period in which democracy will be established in our motherland. Availing myself of this solemn opportunity, I should like to recall the important historic role played by Indonesia, France, Thailand, Japan and the People’s Republic of China, which hosted crucial meetings on Cambodia that have led to the present positive results. I should like to express my deepest gratitude to the following eminent personalities, their Excellencies President Suharto and President François Mitterrand, Mr. Roland Dumas, Mr. Ali Alatas, Mr. Gareth Evans and Mr. Ahmed Rafeeuddin for their tireless contributions to the success of this precious peace process. We are most gratified by the many congratulatory messages from Governments welcoming the promulgation of the new Constitution of Cambodia and the reaccession to the throne of His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk. Last, but not least, the official recognition extended to the new, democratically elected Royal Government of Cambodia constitutes an act of justice, which to us is of great encouragement. The success of the United Nations operation in Cambodia can be described as a combination of trust in the good will of the international community to save Cambodia and of the will of the whole Cambodian population to save its homeland. Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 7 The Cambodian people, by their participation, in huge numbers, in the free and fair elections held in our country last May, played a decisive role in sowing the seeds of democracy in Cambodia. His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk, father of the Cambodian nation, played a crucial role in encouraging and nurturing national reconciliation among all Khmers, and provided firm support for the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) and for Mr. Yasushi Akashi, the leader of UNTAC. The steps taken by His Majesty ensured success for the last stage of the peace plan, including the drafting of our new Constitution and the orderly transfer of power. I am indeed pleased to report that the peace process in Cambodia continues in accordance with the Paris Peace Agreements. The elections, in which, happily, huge numbers of my compatriots participated, were free and fair. Despite tremendous difficulties and constraints, the outcome was most encouraging for the future of democracy in Cambodia. Cambodia’s new Constitution, which was drafted by a sovereign Constituent Assembly, established a constitutional monarchy within the framework of a democratic and liberal political system, under which the people are the sole source of State power, and the judiciary is totally independent of the legislature and the executive. The constitutional monarchy represents the will of the people, expressed through their elected representatives in the constituent Assembly. Under the new Constitution, respect for human rights and individual freedoms has a key place. Even though we have the same leadership as we had during the transitional period, when the provisional Government was in power, the establishment of the Royal Government of Cambodia will ensure the social stability and peace that are so necessary to enable us all to dedicate ourselves to the reconstruction and development of our homeland. We still need a peaceful settlement of the Khmer Rouge problem. This problem must be resolved by the Cambodian people. We hope that a solution will be arrived at during the course of the November round-table discussions, at which His Majesty the King will preside. In this regard, the position of the Royal Government of Cambodia is perfectly clear: we are ready to welcome the Khmer Rouge group as advisers to the Royal Army and the Royal Government. However, we demand that, in return, the Khmer Rouge group assume the same responsibilities as were undertaken by the other three former parties that signed the Paris Agreements: that its administration be dismantled; that its armies and its zones become part of a single national entity, a unified and indivisible Cambodia whose territory and land and maritime borders are internationally recognized, as was the case in the 1960s; and that there be a central governmental structure consisting of a national Assembly, a Royal Government, Royal armed forces and a Royal Administration. The international community should guarantee the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Cambodia. Indeed, a unique international guarantee is clearly enshrined in the text of the Agreement on a Comprehensive Political Settlement of the Cambodia Conflict of 23 October 1991, Part III, which is entitled 'Agreement concerning the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and inviolability, neutrality and national unity of Cambodia'. The Royal Government of Cambodia solemnly pledges that it will scrupulously respect the relevant clauses of articles 1 and 3 of Part III of the Agreement. Cambodia requests that, in return, all signatories to the Paris Agreements of 23 October 1991 respect the clauses contained in articles 2, 4 and 5 of Part III. The new Cambodia counts on all countries signatories to the Paris Agreements to 'solemnly undertake to recognize and respect the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and inviolability, neutrality and national unity of Cambodia.' Notably, the parties must 'refrain from interference, in any form whatsoever, whether direct or indirect, in the internal affairs of Cambodia.' The Royal Government of Cambodia urges that those countries which have not yet subscribed to the Paris Agreements of 23 October 1991 do so in order to help Cambodia and the Cambodian people, who have suffered so much, to maintain and reinforce this fragile peace. This is something that benefits not only Cambodia but the entire Asia-Pacific region. Maintenance of peace will be the sole guarantee of recovery and reconstruction in Cambodia. 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session (spoke in French) We are determined to conclude this process, and we shall do so by ourselves. However, after 23 years of war and suffering, Cambodia is a devastated country. Thus, the new Cambodia needs aid and assistance from the international community. We pledge that we shall devote all our meagre human and financial resources and the extremely generous assistance of the international community to the reconstruction and rehabilitation of our devastated and impoverished country. We welcome the great success of the Tokyo Ministerial Conference on the Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Cambodia that took place in June 1992 and the success of the international conference on the reconstruction of Cambodia that was held in Paris last month. The success of both these conferences is an indication of the international community’s great compassion for the Cambodian people, and we shall be for ever grateful. The Royal Government of Cambodia is determined, with the help of the international community, to take all appropriate measures to meet this tremendous challenge. We are determined to respect and abide fully by the arrangements provided for in Part IV of the Paris Agreements of 23 October 1991 on the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Cambodia. It is precisely because we are determined to achieve these objectives that His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk, with the agreement of the United Nations Secretary- General’s Special Representative for Cambodia, asks, through the Secretary-General and the Security Council: First, a United Nations integrated office should be established in Cambodia. Secondly, the offices of the specialized agencies, such as the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children’s Fund and the World Food Programme, should be retained in Phnom Penh. Thirdly, we should maintain the human rights component in Phnom Penh and expand it into a permanent human rights centre. Fourthly, we should continue the demining operations within the framework of the Cambodian Mine Action Center. Fifthly, we should actively maintain in Phnom Penh a team of military observers, who would help us to build confidence among the Cambodian people and would also serve as a guarantee against external threats. The Royal Government of Cambodia wishes to draw the attention of the international community to the problem of the mines which have been laid throughout Cambodia. Current research shows that there are between 6 million and 10 million mines in Cambodian soil. The Royal Government requests the ongoing cooperation of the international community in removing as many of these mines as possible. In particular, we request assistance from the central database of the Cambodian Mine Action Centre, which is one of the most crucial aspects of the whole operation. The Cambodian Mine Action Centre has so far cleared over 3,883,230 square metres of minefield. The remaining task requires special equipment and a budget spanning the next 5 to 10 years. We hope that the international community can help us make our country safe for present and future generations. Also, as a signatory to the 1970 Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property, and as the Angkor monuments have been listed since December 1992 as a world heritage site, we request the international community to give unstinting assistance to the Royal Government of Cambodia in its struggle against the illicit traffic of Khmer cultural patrimony, which has been subject to unprecedented looting and vandalism. In order to recover these valuable cultural properties, we appeal to all countries which export such goods and through which they are transported - whether or not they have ratified the foregoing Convention - to adopt the following steps to help us. First, they should prevent national museums and similar institutions from acquiring any antiquities which are native to the Kingdom of Cambodia. Secondly, they should ban the import of these cultural properties as soon as they are legally listed in the inventories of Khmer national patrimony, if they are not legally licensed by the competent Cambodian authorities for export purposes. Thirdly, they should take all necessary steps to ensure that antique dealers and merchants of cultural resources assist the Royal Government of Cambodia in recovering and repatriating those cultural treasures illegally exported from the Kingdom of Cambodia. The Royal Government of Cambodia wishes to express its deepest appreciation to the countries of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) for their past and ongoing efforts to help Cambodia and the Cambodian people achieve peace, freedom and independence. We in Cambodia Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 9 note with sincere admiration the tremendous development taking place in the countries of ASEAN, and we hope to learn much from their extensive experience. Cambodia very much regrets that conflict has engulfed the former Yugoslavia, a country that always maintained close and friendly relations with us. We sincerely hope that the current negotiations will put an end to the suffering of the innocent people of the various regions of that unfortunate country. Cambodia also regrets the renewal of conflicts in Somalia, Angola and Georgia. We hope that the intervention of the international community will put a swift end to these conflicts that have caused so much bloodshed. Cambodia congratulates the Palestine Liberation Organization and the State of Israel for reaching initial agreement on some of the issues that have divided them for so many years and caused so much suffering to the Palestinian and Israeli peoples. We urge them to pursue their efforts to achieve permanent peace. My Government is thus pleased to announce that Cambodia has officially restored diplomatic relations with the State of Israel at the ambassadorial level. Cambodia welcomes the progress achieved in the discussions between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of America. We support the 10-point programme proposed by President Kim Il Sung for the peaceful reunification of Korea, and we also support the total nuclear disarmament of the Korean peninsula. We have followed with satisfaction the positive developments in South Africa, where apartheid is being dismantled. We are aware that many obstacles remain and we hope that they can be removed without senseless violence and in peaceful and constructive cooperation between the black majority and the white minority. (spoke in English) Before I conclude, may I be permitted to pay profound homage to the courageous military and civilian personnel of the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia, who have given their lives for the cause of peace in my country. Their names are enshrined deep in our hearts. Cambodia’s complex problems have been solved peacefully thanks to the tireless efforts of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the United Nations. The Royal Government and people of Cambodia salute him and highly commend and praise him for his just leadership in the crucial Cambodia conflict and for bringing it to a peaceful settlement. The message the people of Cambodia have entrusted me to convey to the General Assembly is one of gratitude, of hope and of continuous cooperation with the international community with a view to strengthening peace, democracy and respect for human rights in Cambodia. We know that our task is huge, complex and by no means easy, but we pledge to do our utmost to bring it to a successful completion. On behalf of the Government and people of Namibia, I wish to extend our deepest sympathy and heartfelt condolences to the Government and friendly people of India on the heavy loss of life and destruction of property that resulted from the devastating earthquake. I trust that the international community will give them a full helping hand. Namibia welcomes all the newest Members of the Organization and assures them of its readiness to interact with them in the spirit of friendship and solidarity. The President of the Assembly hails from a friendly country, Guyana, which did so much to spearhead the struggle of the Namibian people for self-determination, liberation and democracy. The Government and people of Guyana spared no effort in manifesting, in word and deed, their unswerving support for and solidarity with the Namibian cause in different world forums. I know all this because I have spent many years at the United Nations and during this time I visited Georgetown, his nation’s capital, and other parts of Guyana on more than one occasion. The hospitality and camaraderie of his brotherly people always touched me very deeply. In his past and present incarnations in the service of his great country, he and I have collaborated on various issues of common interest. It is against this background of mutual friendship and solidarity, therefore, that I congratulate him most warmly on his brilliant election as President of this challenging session of the Assembly. His sterling stewardship is already so effectively manifest that the successful conclusion of our deliberations is assured. I also wish to place on record our sincere appreciation to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, for the effective leadership he provided last session. Our illustrious Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has since his appointment been spearheading an effective and innovative global campaign aimed at streamlining and strengthening the role of the United Nations in peace-keeping operations and in economic and humanitarian issues. His 'Agenda for Peace' has provided a useful framework for discussing these and other pressing issues relating to the maintenance of world peace and security. Namibia commends the Secretary-General for his tireless efforts. On the threshold of a new millennium, and as we are about to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, it is an appropriate time to reflect and take stock. This is a period of great hope and confidence in the efficacy of the United Nations. New vision and foresight are thus called for; bold and imaginative decisions are required. At its forty-seventh session the General Assembly, in resolution 47/62, on the 'Question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council', recognized that in the changing global situation there was a need to reorganize, revitalize and democratize the Security Council. The end of the cold war has created new expectations that the Security Council will take on larger responsibilities and a greater role in the maintenance of international peace and security. But if the Security Council is to be a credible organ of the United Nations, it must fulfil these expectations of a changing and demanding world. It is with this in mind that the 'Question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council' should be addressed. Changes towards a more representative Council would, no doubt, enhance its credibility, legitimacy and authority. Namibia supports the view that the membership of the Security Council should be increased and more permanent and non-permanent members added, taking into consideration equitable geographical representation. Africa itself needs an effective presence on the Council, as do Asia and Latin America. The outmoded and undemocratic veto power should be abolished altogether. Likewise, there is a compelling need for the restructuring of other organs, such as the General Assembly itself and the Economic and Social Council. The member States of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, working in close partnership with the Group of 77, should involve themselves fully in the ongoing discussions on the restructuring of these vital organs of the United Nations. Today we are witnessing a new phenomenon in international relations, characterized by a sense of consensus deriving from shared interests, in which the credibility and centrality of the United Nations in dealing with global conflicts has been greatly enhanced. Indeed, we have witnessed the Organization fulfilling its mandate in the area of the maintenance of international peace and security. We in Namibia believe that now is the opportune moment to establish a new role and purpose for a conflict- resolution mechanism which is appropriate to the post-cold- war era and to the needs and aspirations of succeeding generations. The renewed commitment towards conflict resolution must be transformed into a realistic programme of action, relating to preventive diplomacy, peacemaking, 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session peace-keeping and peace-building. Humanity is yearning for a peaceful, just and prosperous world. On this score, Namibia envisages a meaningful partnership and enhanced cooperation between the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity in the field of conflict resolution and humanitarian relief operations in Africa. Now more than ever, much is expected of the United Nations in the area of conflict resolution. The Organization has a golden opportunity to ensure that those expectations which 'We the peoples' set forth in the Charter, are met by further enhancing its effectiveness. It is an accepted fact that peace and stability are necessary, albeit not sufficient, conditions for economic development. Therefore, peace-keeping, peacemaking and peace-building should go hand in hand with economic development. For peace-keeping operations to be effective, Member States should pay promptly their assessed contributions to the regular budget and to peace-keeping operations. In this context, we support the establishment of the reserve fund aimed at improving the start-up financing of peace-keeping operations. In Cambodia, the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) accomplished its task satisfactorily. Namibia was happy to have contributed polling officers and a staffed contingent of reinforced vehicles, called wolves, to UNTAC. We did this because it was, after all, in Namibia that a United Nations peace-keeping operation scored its first large-scale victory. Namibia will favourably consider participation in future United Nations peace-keeping operations. Unfortunately, other peace-keeping operations have not as yet achieved the same positive results. It is our hope that the United Nations will continue to help resolve the conflicts in Somalia, Angola, Rwanda, Liberia, Mozambique, Haiti and Bosnia and Herzegovina, among others. With regard to Angola, Mr. Savimbi’s rejection of last year’s election results was a major set-back. It has plunged that sister country further into a most horrible human tragedy. The horrendous carnage there continues to claim about 1,000 innocent lives a day. It is further reported that from 2 million to 3 million innocent Angolans are at risk of dying of either direct or indirect effects of this senseless war. The international community must exert concerted pressure on Mr. Savimbi to accept the will of the Angolan people without any further delay. What is now expected of Mr. Savimbi is the speedy implementation of the Bicesse Accords, the relevant Security Council resolutions, the Abidjan Protocol and last year’s election results, which, taken together, provide the framework for resuming negotiations with the Angolan Government. It is the view of the Namibian Government that the resumption of negotiations should lead to an early cease-fire, which will allow the delivery of humanitarian assistance to the suffering Angolan people, reconciliation and consolidation of the Government of National Unity. To this end, and in the face of Mr. Savimbi’s persistent intransigence, the Security Council had no other alternative but to impose sanctions against UNITA. Namibia, therefore, supports Security Council resolution 864 (1993) which, inter alia, calls for the prohibition of all sale or supply to UNITA of arms and related materiél and military assistance, as well as petroleum and petroleum products, and urges all Member States to implement these measures. We believe also that if UNITA continues to flout Security Council resolutions, additional forms of punitive sanctions should be imposed. Concerning the situation in Somalia, Namibia supports the United Nations peace-keeping operation there. My delegation holds the view that disarming the various factions would allow the people of Somalia to build genuine bridges of reconciliation and bring about the restoration of a civil society. Under the present circumstances, and in spite of provocations by General Aidid’s faction, the United Nations Operation in Somalia should continue to carry out its mandate. Our hearts go out in sympathy to all those countries whose nationals, including innocent Somalis, have made the supreme sacrifice in the service of the United Nations and human brotherhood. Any precipitous withdrawal, however, would be to the detriment of innocent Somali people and is likely to reverse the whole process. This should not be allowed to happen. In Mozambique, we are encouraged to note that the cease-fire continues to hold and that the process appears to be moving forward. I can hardly overemphasize that it is absolutely imperative for elections to be conducted in an atmosphere of peace, trust and cooperation - and this means that the armed forces must first be confined to base and demobilized, in accordance with the General Peace Agreement agreed to last year by the two parties. Forty-eighth session - 6 October l993 21 Namibia welcomes with satisfaction the recent encouraging developments that have taken place in South Africa. For the first time in the history of that neighbouring country, all the people of South Africa will finally participate in a free and democratic election on 27 April next year. We would like, nevertheless, to urge all the people of South Africa to ensure that this process remains on course, and we call upon all the parties to participate in the work of the Transitional Executive Council. In the same vein, we call upon them, with the assistance of the international community, to put an immediate end to the ever-escalating violence. Violence and the ballot box do not go together. Namibia, along with the other members of the Ad Hoc Committee on Southern Africa of the Organization of African Unity, supports the call made by the President of the African National Congress, Mr. Nelson Mandela, to lift all remaining economic sanctions against South Africa. Namibia further supports the lifting of the oil embargo after the establishment and commencement of the work of the Transitional Executive Council, as well as the establishment or restoration of full diplomatic relations with South Africa, following the installation of an elected Interim Government of National Unity, pursuant to democratic elections next year. The Middle East, the cradle of some of the world’s major religions, has witnessed bloody conflicts for the greater part of this century and has been on the agenda of the United Nations since its inception. Namibia welcomes the historic breakthrough represented by mutual recognition and the declaration of principles signed between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) on Palestinian self-rule in Gaza and the city of Jericho. Despite their long enmity, the leaders of the State of Israel and the PLO summoned the political courage to embrace peace. We can only hope that the historic handshake between Mr. Rabin, Prime Minister of Israel, and Mr. Arafat, Chairman of the PLO, will usher in a new era in that region. Granted, this is only a first step, but it constitutes a firm basis for building a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in the Middle East. However, for this undertaking to succeed, the infusion of large-scale and sustained international financial and humanitarian assistance is required. Encouraged by the historic and momentous breakthrough in the Middle East and the positive developments in South Africa, and also taking into consideration the emerging climate in favour of rapprochement in inter-State relations, we believe that the time has now come for the leaders of the United States of America and the Republic of Cuba to travel the short distance of 90 miles to reconciliation and peaceful coexistence. We are convinced that this can be done in the interest of the children of the two countries, who, like those of South Africa, Israel and Palestine, hope for a peaceful and brighter future. Peace and stability in the Middle East are critically important not only to that region but also to the world as a whole. In this context, Namibia associates itself with Security Council resolution 833 (1993) of 27 May 1993, dealing with the territorial integrity of Kuwait and inviolability of its borders. We reiterate our full support for the right of the people of Kuwait and its Government to defend their sovereignty and independence. Namibia is a small State, and we understand the predicament of small States. During the last session, I updated this august Assembly on the progress made in our bilateral negotiations with the Government of South Africa on the issue of the transfer and reintegration of Walvis Bay and the Offshore Islands into Namibia. Today, I am happy to report that the matter has finally been resolved. On 28 February 1994, the transfer and reintegration of Walvis Bay and the Offshore Islands into Namibia will take place. This will, at last, mark the completion of the decolonization of Namibia and the unification of our nation. I take this opportunity to express our deep appreciation to the Member States for their consistent support, over the years, of Security Council resolution 432 (1978) on Walvis Bay. I would also like to thank, in particular, the South African Multi-Party Negotiating Forum for adopting an important resolution which speeded up this process. The Rio Earth Summit marked an historic turning-point in the long struggle to increase international awareness about the true nature of the global environmental crisis. The Summit effectively moved a long way towards a better understanding of how future economic development is inextricably linked to sound policies aimed at promoting and protecting the environment. 22 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session To this end, and in line with the provisions of our Constitution, Namibia has launched a countrywide programme of tree planting to prevent further deforestation and degradation of the environment. Naturally, Namibia, like the other developing countries, is anxious to see generous financing and implementing of Agenda 21. Let me now turn to the socio-economic problems we are facing today. Despite the promise world leaders made to children at the World Summit for Children here in New York in 1990, education, health, water, shelter and food security remain inaccessible to millions of children in the developing world - and Namibia is no exception. In Africa, problems of hunger, malnutrition, disease, and so on, continue to thwart the commitment we made last year at Dakar during the International Conference on Assistance for the African Child, to place children first. In furtherance of this commitment, and convinced that the problems of the Namibian children can be addressed only in a comprehensive manner, we have already integrated the National Programme of Action on children into the overall National Development Plan. This National Development Plan constitutes the basis for social and economic development in Namibia. In this context, primary health care, education, provision of water and rural development are among the priorities of our National Development Plan. The 20/20 Vision programme we adopted at Dakar must be implemented if we are to achieve tangible results by the year 1995, when we shall review progress made since the 1990 World Summit, including in particular the fate and welfare of those children engulfed in war situations. The recent World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna has further exposed the unmitigated violence and other forms of injustice being perpetrated against women throughout the world. The Namibian Constitution contains specific provisions on protection of the rights of women and promotion of their welfare. Furthermore, Namibia is a party to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. It is against this background that we in Namibia have taken measures to raise women’s awareness of their rights by translating this Convention into indigenous languages. In the same vein, we applaud the appointment of the Special Rapporteur to study the issue of violence against women. It is with this in mind that Namibia looks forward to the Fourth World Conference on Women, in anticipation that its decisions will further advance the cause of women in the world, especially in Africa. These are some of the many concerns on the social agenda of all nations. Thus to us, the appointment of a United Nations commissioner for human rights makes much sense, and we support the idea. At the same time, we would like to urge everyone to ensure that the mandate and status of such a high-level international civil servant should be considered carefully and realistically. In order to meet the acute shortages of housing, the Government has embarked upon a programme to provide adequate housing to the Namibian people by the year 2000. In recognition of this national effort, Namibia was awarded the Habitat Scroll of Honour for 1993 for our National Housing Programme, called 'Build Together'. This award was received by my distinguished colleague, the Honourable Mrs. Libertine Amathila, Minister of Local and Regional Government and Housing, two days ago. I would like to echo the words of my colleague by thanking Habitat for this outstanding honour. In conclusion, I wish to reiterate my Government’s belief that the United Nations, as a unique international body, can live up to its lofty ideals of creating a peaceful, secure and just world for us and for generations to come. To this end, Namibia pledges its total commitment. On behalf of the people and Government of Papua New Guinea, I should like to congratulate Ambassador Insanally of Guyana on his election to preside over the General Assembly at its forty- eighth session. In so doing, I should like to recall - and to express my delegation’s sincere appreciation for - the even- handed and efficient manner in which his predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, the Foreign Minister of Bulgaria, presided over the Assembly at its forty-seventh session. His outstanding example has maintained and thereby helped to strengthen a high standard which we are confident Mr. Insanally will match. His election brings us particular pleasure because of the many important interests which Guyana shares with Papua New Guinea and the increasingly strong relations which have been developing between our two countries, mainly through cooperation in the context of multilateral organizations such as the Commonwealth, the African, Caribbean and Pacific group of Governments parties to the Lomé Convention, and the United Nations itself. The Government of Papua New Guinea is also pleased to welcome the further progress towards the universal membership of the United Nations marked by the admission of the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Eritrea, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Monaco and Andorra. We look forward to cooperating with their Governments and delegations in advancing the objectives of the United Nations. In welcoming the new Members, I feel bound to observe that my Government is concerned that other small States, including a number in the South Pacific, which find it difficult to afford to join and send missions to the United Nations, should be provided with the means of keeping abreast of developments and of having proper account taken of their interests, perhaps through such arrangements as a regional observer, as a number of Governments have proposed to the South Pacific Forum. I turn now to the proposed United Nations initiative on opportunity and participation. When I addressed the General Assembly 12 months ago, I said that I had chosen 'opportunity and participation' as the main theme and goal of my policy as Minister for Foreign Affairs. I also forecast that my Government would be formally proposing an initiative for the United Nations bearing the same name. The proposal is now listed as item 151 on the agenda of the current session of the General Assembly. The initiative is, of course, important for Papua New Guinea - opportunity and participation are, in fact, among the national goals and directive principles embodied in our national Constitution. It is also important to other developing countries where increasing opportunity for, and participation by, citizens is a public issue and an official aim. It is, moreover, directly relevant to countries where previous economic arrangements are in transition to markets. In an increasingly interdependent world, where issues and ideas often have global implications, it should be of interest and certainly deserves support worldwide. Papua New Guinea became independent on the very same day, 16 September 1975, as the General Assembly adopted a consensus resolution - 3362 (S-VII), on 'Development and international economic co-operation' - directed, in the words of its first preambular paragraph, 'to accelerate the development of developing countries'. The timing was, almost certainly, coincidental. But it is none the less worthy of notice because of what it suggests about the circumstances, including a continuing need to achieve the same aim on the part of countries such as Papua New Guinea both then and now. In the early l990s, Papua New Guinea has been enjoying an unprecedented rate of economic growth, measured, in the standard terms employed by bodies such as the World Bank, at something more than 9 per cent per year. But few would suggest that the living standards of most of our people have improved at anything like the same rate. The measure is quite seriously misleading, as many of us have known for a very long time. But so are government policies and processes of economic development that fail to pay adequate attention to questions of distribution, including who benefits and who takes part. I refer here, I should add, to distribution not only of Government services but of openings - and even more to effective access - for people to benefit by taking part in economic development. In certain sectors of society in many countries, including my own, people - particularly those living in rural areas - are still trying to enter the cash economy for the first time. In other sectors and even more countries, people who have long been engaged in monetary transactions are trying to increase openings, access and mutually beneficial interactions. Increasing opportunity and participation is, in many respects, a universal goal. The urgency of the need to address the means of achieving it comprehensively, systematically, thoroughly and critically now arises out of concern at several features of the current international situation. The first is the difficult and often worsening circumstances of and in many developing countries. A second is the problems being encountered in the transition to markets in countries where economic arrangements were previously State-centred. Another feature results from a tendency among economic policy-makers in widely scattered parts of the world, including developed countries and the major international financial institutions, during the 1980s to favour reducing the economic role of the State and to leave questions of access and distribution of benefits to markets. Complicating the effects of so-called 'aid fatigue' in developed countries are the increasing need and demand for aid, investment and commercial loans arising from the changes occurring in Eastern and Central Europe, the former Soviet Union, southern Africa and the Middle East. New opportunities for scarce capital and other resources are also opening up in the same and other areas. Furthermore, expensive and urgent needs will have to be met when the terrible conflicts currently raging in the former Yugoslavia, the Caucasus, parts of Africa and elsewhere are resolved and rehabilitation can get under way. In other words, resumption or continuation of development in many parts of the world will require that more must be done with less. Opportunity, access and beneficial participation in economic development must be quite dramatically increased if living conditions are to be maintained, let alone improved. The proposal which the Papua New Guinea Government is therefore making is for the United Nations to establish a small panel of distinguished, expert and experienced persons broadly representative of the international community to review what has already been done and to identify options to increase opportunity and participation, with particular, though not exclusive, reference to the economies of developing countries. We propose not an academic study, but one that draws on actual experience and makes recommendations for practical action. We do not have any fixed ideas about what it should say. Rather, we want it to make a close, critical examination of what has been attempted, what has been proposed and what has been - for whatever reason, or for none - overlooked. We emphatically do not want the project to begin with doctrinaire assumptions; rather, we want it to ask questions - for example, about when and how it is best for the State to limit its involvement in the economy or to withdraw completely, and when and how the State should act to maximize opportunity and participation. Above all, we want it to investigate and to provide advice on the best way of linking opportunity, via effective access, to participation. Thus, the panel, the project and the report ought to be multidisciplinary in approach and scope, examining critically both experiences and ideas about ways in which legal, administrative, economic, social and other arrangements help or hinder increasing economic opportunity and participation. While the focus should be on the particular difficulties of developing countries, the project should, we believe, look further afield. It will, in fact, have to do so if its research and findings are to stimulate the world-wide information exchange, and, above all make the practical difference which we hope will result. Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 3 In my statement to the General Assembly a year ago I described the proposed United Nations initiative on opportunity and participation as being in some respects 'the economic counterpart' to the Secretary-General’s most succinct and constructive report, 'An Agenda for Peace.' It should also be seen, I believe, as a complement to, and a necessary filling-out of, other important United Nations resolutions and documents that have been concerned with development issues more generally, such as the reports of the Pearson and Brandt Commissions, and 'The Challenge to the South'. The panel and the report envisaged in our proposed draft resolution should, in addition, be viewed as complementing and helping to fill out the Brundtland Report, particularly in so far as they manage to identify options not only for maintaining increased opportunity and participation, but for continuing to increase them so as to allow living standards to go on being raised for and by future generations. While we await publication of the Secretary-General’s eagerly anticipated report outlining an agenda for development, the proposed initiative on opportunity and participation should not be seen as a rival or a duplication. The proposal ought to be seen instead for what it is intended to be, namely, a constructive start and a practical contribution to setting objectives and specifying means for development into the twenty-first century. Like other supporters of the proposal, the Government of Papua New Guinea has been gratified by the strong and positive response with which the proposed United Nations initiative on opportunity and participation has been greeted by Governments, non-governmental organizations and international bodies in diverse parts of the world. We have particularly appreciated the expressions of support we have received from the Government of the Assembly’s President, the Chairman of the General Assembly’s Second Committee, and organizations particularly concerned with advancing the common interests of developing countries, the Group of 77 and the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries. In our own immediate neighbourhood, we have been assured of strong, individual and collective support by members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), the Melanesian Spearhead Group, and the South Pacific Forum, which includes the Governments of developed countries in the region. With assistance from the United Nations Development Programme, my Government has convened both a national and a regional Workshop, in which highly respected, variously experienced and diversely skilled persons gave their time on an honorary basis to help develop and refine the proposal. The proceedings of both Workshops are being circulated to all United Nations members. When the proposal is debated in the Assembly on 15 November, we look to all members of the United Nations for contributions to its further development and refinement, and, of course, for their votes. As it did with the resolution (47/441) on development and international economic cooperation, adopted on Papua New Guinea’s independence day, my Government hopes that the General Assembly will endorse the proposed United Nations initiative on opportunity and participation by consensus. Believing as we do in the importance of the proposed initiative, but conscious of the severe strains currently imposed on the United Nations human and financial resources, and bearing in mind the recommendation made to all members by the Second Ministerial Meeting of the Standing Committee on Economic Cooperation of the Non-Aligned Movement, my Government has decided to make a special pledge to contribute K100,000 - the equivalent of a little more than $102,000 - to assist in realizing the proposal. While we believe that implementation of the proposal must not depend on special donations, we call upon others to do the same in accordance with their means. With regard to conferences on development and related issues, consistent with Papua New Guinea’s obvious interest in development issues generally, and in those that pertain to small island countries in particular, my Government looks forward to the first Global Conference on Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, which is to be held in Barbados in April 1994. We shall remain actively involved in preparations for, and the proceedings of, what we regard as a most important occasion for sharing experiences and ideas, including both problems and hopes, with island States in our own and other regions. For closely related reasons, we also look forward to the International Conference on Population and Development, to be held in Cairo in 1994. Having taken a close interest in the deliberations and outcome of the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna in June, we shall contribute as best we can to the 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session preparations for the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen, and the Fourth World Conference on Women, scheduled for Beijing, both in 1995. I turn to the subject of apartheid and sanctions against South Africa. Successive Governments of Papua New Guinea have always been strongly opposed to apartheid, both in principle and in practice. We have consistently applied sanctions, backed by the force of Papua New Guinea law, against those who have upheld it. Even as apartheid has been dismantled, and progress towards a democratic, multi-racial South Africa has been observed, my Government has been conscious of the special perspectives and interests of African States. We have accordingly taken the view that we would remove our sanctions against South Africa only in consultation, conducted through bodies such as the Commonwealth and the United Nations, with such States. Despite the economic interests which might have been served by allowing links between Papua New Guinea and South Africa, we have willingly paid the price our policy has required. I have been personally moved in recent days by the addresses made by the President of the African National Congress, Mr. Nelson Mandela, before the United Nations Special Committee against Apartheid as well as the Joint Assembly of the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) Group of countries and the European Community. Following the recommendations made by Mr. Mandela, the Organization of African Unity and the Commonwealth Secretariat, as well as the resolution adopted by consensus in the General Assembly on Friday 8 October, my Government will now take steps to remove legally enforced sanctions. But in doing so we remain conscious of the continuing - and unfortunate - relevance of Mr. Mandela’s pointed reminder to the Joint Assembly of the ACP Group and the European Community that: 'the white minority Government and its institutions ... should not be ... treated as though they were the representative of all the people of South Africa.' The struggle for real equality for the African citizens of South Africa is certainly not over. In some respects, it has scarcely begun. My Government believes very strongly that the achievement of a genuinely stable, democratic and multi-racial South Africa requires increasing opportunities for access to and participation in all areas of society, including the economy, by the country’s African population. My next subject is the progress towards peace in the Middle East. Successive Governments of Papua New Guinea have consistently followed a policy of supporting the right of Israel to exist within secure borders, while recognizing the Palestinian people’s right to a homeland. We are accordingly both impressed and encouraged by the dramatic, bold and hopeful agreements reached by the Israeli Government and the Palestine Liberation Organization. We commend the steps that have since been taken, including the diplomatic and material support provided by other Governments to facilitate implementation of those agreements. As our Prime Minister, the Right Honourable Paias Wingti, has already announced, the Government of Papua New Guinea will do what little it can to further the process, by acknowledging the constructive role being played by the Palestine Liberation Organization and examining ways in which we might seek to strengthen relations with the legitimate representatives of the Palestinian people. I come now to the reform and revitalization of the United Nations and the recharging of its resources. The welcome developments in southern Africa and the Middle East, particularly those related to Israel, the occupied territories and the Palestine Liberation Organization, reveal both strengths and weaknesses in the United Nations, and suggest that while there are situations in which the United Nations can play an important, even vital, role, there are also situations in which it cannot. We must recognize that when the United Nations itself cannot, for whatever reason, be effective, then individual Governments, such as Norway’s, regional organizations, such as the Organization of African Unity, or some other body may be able to initiate or facilitate a positive outcome. The Government of Papua New Guinea welcomes the reforms which are gradually being made to the United Nations system: in the Secretariat and other organs, and in the manner in which our deliberations are organized. We also welcome the generally revitalized role that our Organization aspires to play in international relations. But we must remember that internal reform and reorganization are only as important as their eventual outcome. A revitalized United Nations must not be allowed to become an instrument of sectional interests or ill-planned adventurism. In the context of the contrast between the evidently satisfactory outcome of United Nations efforts in Cambodia and the uncertainties of the situation in Somalia, my Government feels a need to sound a cautionary warning. The terrible events unfolding in the former Yugoslavia, particularly in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the mounting toll of human death, injury and suffering resulting from conflicts in parts of the former Soviet Union reinforce my Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 5 Government’s reservations about aspects of the current debate over the part that the United Nations can and should play in the post-cold-war international order. The Government of Papua New Guinea is also conscious of the selectivity and costs of United Nations peace-keeping, peace-observing and peacemaking operations, and of the need to ensure that the Organization is reformed, revitalized and re-endowed with sufficient resources to make a difference to the very basis of peace in developing countries: development itself. My next topic is decolonization, indigenous people and natural resources. In this, the United Nations International Year of the World’s Indigenous People, my Government had the rare privilege of hosting a Regional Seminar of the Special Committee of 24 on decolonization, chaired by Papua New Guinea’s Permanent Representative at the United Nations. The occasion gave us an opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to the decolonization of New Caledonia, with special safeguards for its indigenous people, the Kanaks. The Government of Papua New Guinea is strongly opposed to any suggestion that the Matignon Accords might not be fully honoured. The same position has been adopted by our partners in the Melanesian Spearhead Group and the South Pacific Forum. In addition to the question of New Caledonia, the Regional Seminar also focused attention on other relics of European colonialism, including French Polynesia, where Polynesian demands for independence seem to be gaining strength. Elsewhere in the South Pacific, the negotiated settlement between the Governments of Nauru and Australia has been widely welcomed for the redress it provides for a long period of colonial exploitation of Nauru’s principal land-based natural resource and the destruction of much of its natural environment. The settlement is also arousing considerable interest as to its possible implications in other former Trust Territories and colonial dependencies. The Government of Papua New Guinea is only one of a number of interested parties which have the matter under close examination. My Government is also only one among many in welcoming, and wishing to encourage, efforts to recognize the rights and to improve the situation of other indigenous people in the South Pacific and elsewhere. Together with our partners in the Melanesian Spearhead Group - the Governments of Solomon Islands and Vanuatu - we have signed a Declaration on Cooperation in Development of Natural Resources. One of the explicit objectives of the Declaration is to facilitate implementation of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. Another objective, which has yet to be realized, is to supplement existing efforts in relation to regional fisheries by broadening and deepening cooperation between the Governments of countries in the South Pacific where other natural resources are being developed, often by outsiders. The crisis in Papua New Guinea’s North Solomons Province is an unfortunate and costly internal affair of Papua New Guinea. It continues, still unresolved, even as Government and other services are being restored. I am therefore pleased to report that my Government has recently been engaged in productive exchanges with the Government of the Solomon Islands, particularly concerning the spill-over effects of the crisis on and near the common border. Following these exchanges, I have issued an invitation on the Government’s behalf to the Joint Assembly of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States party to the Lomé Convention and the European Community to send a visiting mission to Papua New Guinea, including the North Solomons Province, to assess the situation and to recommend how it might assist in rehabilitation. The Government has also announced its intention to work towards an All-Bougainville Leaders’ Conference to try to resolve the crisis by political means. The Government of Solomon Islands has offered its cooperation in what has been, at times, a rather difficult situation. We hope to continue our dialogue over long-term measures to strengthen bilateral relations. With respect to regional and global economic cooperation, the Government of Papua New Guinea, like most other Members of the United Nations, is concerned at the possibility that reform of the international trading system might fail as a result of the apparent intransigence of vested interests in certain developed countries during the final stages of the Uruguay Round of negotiations of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). We also do not believe that regional trading blocs can be an adequate substitute for an equitable and orderly international trading system. The Government of Papua New Guinea does not see the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC) as a replacement or a rival for an updated version of GATT. But we do regard APEC as being important to our interests. More than 80 per cent in value of exports from Papua New Guinea go to the existing APEC member countries. Nearly 90 per cent of our imports come from exactly the same 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session countries. Other aspects of Papua New Guinea’s international economic relations are just as deeply enmeshed with APEC members. With encouragement from existing members, my Government has therefore applied to join APEC. We believe that it would not be right for such a body to continue without a single member from the centre of a region whose name it bears: the Pacific. We look forward to an early - and positive - response to our application. In conclusion, I should like to say the following: No human being can have failed to be deeply moved by, or to feel the utmost sympathy for, people affected by the disastrous earthquake which occurred in India in late September. No one who has been following the developments consequent on the changes in the former Soviet Union can have failed to be both excited and concerned by the dramatic political and military confrontations which have been occurring in the Russian Federation. All of us must surely be concerned at reports that nuclear testing has been resumed, at the possibility that more tests might follow, and that weapons of mass destruction might grow in number, power and circulation. In short, notwithstanding the progress made towards finding lasting solutions to some long-standing issues since the cold war ended, we continue to live in a rapidly changing, often fragile and uncertain world. Able by virtue of our membership of the United Nations at least to let our views be known on what are some of the most important and pressing issues of our time, the Government of Papua New Guinea has, therefore, chosen to give close attention to an issue of particular concern to developing countries, to explore avenues of cooperation with other States, and to propose a United Nations initiative on 'Opportunity and Participation'. Let me end by repeating my previous call for members’ support for a proposal intended to assist in identifying what the people and Government of Papua New Guinea believe to be common interests, global problems and practical solutions. Permit me, first of all, to congratulate Ambassador Insanally on his unanimous election as President of the United Nations General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I am confident that, under his dynamic and wise leadership, coupled with the support of that able and consummate diplomat, His Excellency Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the deliberations of this Assembly will produce constructive and fruitful results in meeting some of the major challenges our world is facing at this time and in laying a sound foundation for international relations in the foreseeable future. Our appreciation is also extended to His Excellency Stoyan Ganev, the President of the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session, for his successful conduct of that session of the Assembly. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the new Member States that have joined us. I expect that their participation at this session will contribute significantly to international peace and cooperation. The world has witnessed phenomenal changes within the last two or three years. With the collapse of Soviet communism, many new independent States have emerged, and several countries whose citizens lived unwillingly behind the Iron Curtain for almost half a century have rejoined the free world. The bipolar world has disappeared and the cold war has practically ended. These great changes provide an opportunity for us to reduce international tensions, to attain true parity among nations, to put an end to wasteful investments in destructive and devastating armaments and to free up our resources for more productive use by all our citizens. On the other hand, however, we also see that these changes in the world have created substantial uncertainties and in many instances have given rise to extremely tragic regional, local, ethnic and religious conflicts which, unless addressed by the international community, will endanger world peace. These conflicts, combined with the continuing problems of poverty, the widening gap between the rich and the poor, and the scourge of drug use and drug trafficking could offset the advantages we all hope to gain from the recent changes. Do we have the vision, the creativity and the resolve to ensure that the world takes positive advantage of the new realities for the benefit of all countries and peoples? Or will we continue to be myopic, dogmatically blind and self-centred, and risk losing this great opportunity? The Afghan people have a special stake in the choice we collectively make. We wish to ensure that our choice is the right one and that all countries, including Afghanistan, share fully in the benefits that should flow from the new realities. Our special stake is based on our belief that the changes that have taken place in the world are partly the result of the enormous sacrifices made by our nation during the 14 years of struggle against Soviet occupation and communist rule. In this context, I would like to say a few words about some of the issues confronting the world community today, issues which we must address in this Assembly. I will then discuss the situation in Afghanistan and state what our expectations are of the United Nations and the world community. One of the issues confronting us is that of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The country’s situation is indeed tragic, and will be a test case to determine whether we in the international community have the sense of justice and can muster the resolve to end this tragedy successfully and Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 21 justly. The continuing occupation of Bosnian Muslim territories by the Serbs, backed by the armed might of Serbia, the intransigence of the Serbians vis-à-vis the Security Council resolutions, and the untold atrocities committed against the innocent Bosnian Muslim population is not only an affront to this Organization but also an insult to humanity. The delegation of the Islamic State of Afghanistan believes that aggression must not be rewarded and that any territorial gains that were made as a result of force should and must be rectified. A definitive time limit should be set by which the Serbs should agree to the terms of the London Conference and withdraw from the seized territories. Otherwise, the current arms embargo against Bosnia should be lifted and other urgent and effective measures, including the use of force, should be considered by the United Nations and the international community to ensure that the Bosnian tragedy is ended and the Serbian aggression repulsed. The Palestinian people have suffered long. The Islamic State of Afghanistan would like to see peace finally achieved for these people in a way that meets their national objectives and satisfies their right to self-determination. We believe that the declaration of principles on Palestinian self-rule signed in Washington on 13 September 1993 will serve as the basis for a long-term solution to the Palestine problem and ensure peace and stability only if it is followed by earnest negotiations that lead first, to the withdrawal of Israeli forces from the occupied territories; secondly, to the establishment of an independent Palestinian State that includes the Holy City of Jerusalem, one of the three most sacred cities of the Islamic world; thirdly, to the return of the Palestinian refugees; and fourthly, to a resolution of the problem of Israeli settlements in a manner acceptable to the new Palestinian State. Kashmir is another tragic issue that requires urgent attention. This issue has not only caused substantial suffering to the people of Kashmir, but has become the source of friction between two important neighbouring States in South Asia and has prevented the full realization of the economic and trade potentials that exist within and outside the region. The Islamic State of Afghanistan therefore urges the resolution of this issue by these two States through negotiations under United Nations auspices or under any other arrangements that may be acceptable to both sides, taking into account the wishes and aspirations of the people of Kashmir. In the case of Somalia, the Islamic State of Afghanistan is distressed by the chaos which has resulted from increasing civil upheaval. We support the peace-keeping efforts of the United Nations and hope that international participation can ensure a safe end to the turmoil in Somalia and the establishment of a viable government to protect the interests and rights of the Somali people. We believe all peaceful avenues that might help in solving this problem should be explored. The Islamic State of Afghanistan supports every equitable international effort to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. However, given that most of the tragedies around the world are caused by the massive increase in the availability of conventional weapons, my delegation would welcome and support a resolution to control the production and sale of such weapons. Such a resolution should also provide for effective arms collection programmes in countries which are saturated with weapons that are causing internal and regional instability. Now I would like to focus the attention of the Assembly on my own country, Afghanistan. As all of you know, Afghanistan has suffered enormously within the past 15 years. I do not wish to go into the details of the destruction that has taken place, but I would like to highlight a few points very briefly. The Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has aptly summarized the tragedy of Afghanistan: 'Few countries in history have suffered to the extent Afghanistan has over the past fourteen years. Aside from the physical destruction, which was often nothing short of cataclysmic, the results of the war include well over a million people killed, over 2 million disabled, nearly 6 million refugees in neighbouring countries, and 2 million internally displaced persons.' Almost the entire transportation, communication, and power infrastructure in Afghanistan has been either wiped out or severely damaged. The agricultural system is in total disarray, with the irrigation system destroyed, much livestock killed and the agricultural credit and extension services totally defunct. The placement of millions of mines throughout the country makes it impossible to revive the agricultural sector. Forests are denuded and the environment spoiled. Attempts to provide health care, medicine, immunization and so on are stymied by the destruction of so many hospitals and clinics. Mental health problems resulting from many years of war and bombings have no relief. In addition, thousands upon thousands of amputees require artificial limbs. Thousands of schools have been destroyed and many of our teachers and professors have been killed or exiled. Indeed, illiteracy has overtaken almost our entire population. A whole generation of Afghans has no experience of normal life or of education in any form. 22 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The other two urgent problems we have are both linked to the lack of jobs and of economic alternatives within Afghanistan: the problem of large numbers of weapons in private hands and the problem of illicit drugs. I shall return to both of these matters a little later. Let me describe the plight of one individual, Abdul Rahim. This man escaped to Pakistan from the war in Afghanistan nine years ago. He was newly married, with one baby, and during his years in Pakistan he had two more children. Two of his brothers were killed in battle, and the third died of disease that went untreated because of poor medical facilities. He is responsible for two of his widowed sisters-in-law and their five children. Thus, as he returns to his village in Afghanistan he is the head of a family of twelve. He finds that his parents, who had refused to leave, are no longer there. It will be some time before he learns of their fate. His home is reduced to a pile of rubble, as, obviously, are those of his neighbours. The shops of the village are gone. The once-paved road that came almost to the village is an unrecognizable path of dust and rocks. There is no water and no electricity. Worse, there are no trees or source of wood, and winter’s shadow grows longer with each cold night. In his once productive fields lie burned tanks and odd pieces of metallic rubble. His cousins nervously talk of land mines, one of which killed an old neighbour the day before his return. His family is concerned about lack of flour, tea and sugar. This person is just an example; there are millions of people like him in Afghanistan. One of the most damaging legacies that Afghanistan has inherited from Soviet occupation, Communist rule and the long, drawn-out war is a substantial break-up of our civil and military administration and the virtual collapse of our economic and financial institutions. In the past year the Government has taken substantial steps to correct the situation. Indeed, progress has been made in re-establishing central authority and in reviving public and private economic and financial institutions. None the less, considerable work and much assistance will be required before we begin to overcome those shortcomings. In addition, given the destruction that has taken place, we are in need of a massive reconstruction programme which we are unable to undertake unless we are assisted by the international community. Last year the General Assembly adopted a resolution calling for reconstruction assistance to Afghanistan. Not much has happened since then. A similar draft resolution will be presented to the Assembly this year, and we hope that it will be supported and that many can take part in putting it into effect. When we raise the question of assistance for reconstruction and revitalization of the economy, our request is gently dismissed with the reply that once security is established, Afghanistan will be helped. While granting that security is important for a full-fledged reconstruction programme, I would suggest that a reasonable degree of peace and security does exist in large parts of Afghanistan. In these areas reconstruction is possible and, if started, could serve as a catalyst in revitalizing the entire Afghan economy. There are only a few areas where tensions exist and where there may be intermittent fighting. We should also bear in mind that it may not be possible to have full peace and security in the country unless we are able to start the process of reconstruction and provide people with productive economic opportunities to make it attractive, and indeed possible, for them to give up their arms. The vicious circle of security first and then reconstruction or economic revival first and then security must be broken if we are to make any progress. Another dimension of security is obviously political. To ensure that the entire Afghan nation participates in determining the country’s future political structure, we plan to hold elections in the course of the coming year. We have therefore requested the United Nations to help organize and supervise the election process. Now I should like to come back to the two or three points which I mentioned earlier. One issue worth mentioning here and which has had both regional and international implications is that of narcotic drugs. At the present time the illicit cultivation, production, stocking, smuggling of and trafficking in narcotic drugs are without a doubt critical problems that face humanity. Regrettably, one of the legacies of the long war is the transformation of some parts of our country into staging areas for illicit drug activity. This phenomenon, which is the result of the unavailability of economic alternatives, is a source of great pain to us. The Islamic State of Afghanistan, despite its scarce resources, has undertaken serious measures in the struggle against illicit drugs. We shall spare no efforts in combating these illegal activities. However, we must not overlook the reality that Afghanistan, with its extremely limited means and massive economic and financial needs, is not in a position to accomplish effectively this task on its own. Afghanistan needs urgent support from the international community to intensify the struggle against cultivation and of trafficking in drugs. Another area where we require cooperation is that of land mines. Last year the Secretary-General’s report brought Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 23 to the attention of the world the fact that there are more than 10 million land mines in Afghanistan. It should also be mentioned that, on average, about 300 people fall victim to land mines each month. The agricultural sector, the traditional base of the Afghan economy, will never be revived until these mines are cleared. We of course express our gratitude for the past and ongoing mine-clearing programmes of the United Nations and experts from other countries. However, there is an urgent need for greater assistance by interested countries both in actual mine-clearing operations and in training Afghan citizens so as to enable us to complete this task in as short a time as possible. In this connection, the delegation of the Islamic State of Afghanistan wholeheartedly supports the new item, introduced by the European Community, on the current agenda of the General Assembly concerning mine-clearing programmes for war-stricken countries. We Afghans want to reconstruct our country and to heal the wounds of the war that was imposed upon us. We look forward to a normal life in which all our citizens participate fully in the political, economic, and social life of the country, without any prejudice and without discrimination based on ethnicity, religious sect, language or gender. Here we consider it particularly important that Afghan women play an effective and positive role in the process of rebuilding Afghanistan. We want to raise the standard of living of our people. We want to live in peace with all our neighbours and to cooperate fully with them so that we can use the vast resources of our region to the maximum advantage of all our peoples. Indeed, we want to serve as a transit and trade route in our region. To this end, the Islamic State of Afghanistan intends to devise a reconstruction and development strategy that takes into account not only Afghanistan’s own requirements, but also the requirements of the region. We are of course distressed by the recent upheavals in Tajikistan. We have made every effort to ensure that tensions along the Tajik-Afghan border are reduced. For this purpose, official visits at the highest levels have been exchanged between the two countries. These visits have resulted in mutual understanding on important issues. Appropriate communiqués to this effect have been issued in Kabul and Dushanbe. We welcome the decision of the Tajik authorities to solve their internal political problems through negotiations so that the Tajik refugees now in Afghanistan can return to Tajikistan voluntarily with confidence, in security and with honour, in accordance with international norms. To this end we are planning to reach a trilateral agreement between Afghanistan, Tajikistan and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The Islamic State of Afghanistan stands firm in support of human rights. This we consider not only an international commitment, but also a religious conviction. The fact that after the collapse of the communist regime in Afghanistan and the takeover by the Mujahideen, no policy of revenge against the former regime members was pursued is a good indication of this commitment. It is true, however, that due to the massive number of weapons now in private hands in our country some individual incidents of human rights violations have taken place, and skirmishes between different armed groups have regrettably led to the loss of innocent lives. Therefore, the Islamic State of Afghanistan is taking measures to collect heavy arms from various armed groups. We seriously hope that these efforts will bear fruit in the not too distant future. I also want to make it clear that, having been the victims of terrorism ourselves, the Afghan nation opposes terrorism in any form or shape. We will never tolerate terrorism or allow Afghan territory to be used for such acts. Terrorism and the killing of innocent people is abhorrent to our religious beliefs and to our traditions. God Almighty condemns the killing of innocent people and says that when anyone kills an innocent person, it will 'be as if He slew the whole people'. (The Holy Koran, V:35). 24 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The world is also witness to the fact that throughout the unequal war against the former Soviet Union the Afghans at no point carried out any acts of terrorism against Soviet citizens or Soviet property. I would like to conclude by stating that the international community will draw maximum advantage from the changes that have taken place in the world if we assume responsibility for, and become committed to, working collectively towards improving the lives of all peoples, while each country maintains its full independence and enjoys equal rights and privileges as a separate nation. All countries represented in this body should be thinking not only of the prevention of conflicts, but also of engaging our energies to uplift the economic, social, and political lives of every nation and citizen so that all are safe, secure and free. It is with such vision, such commitment, such sense of sharing, that we will be able to realize the objectives for which this Organization was founded. For the attainment of these goals, we must ensure that new opportunities in the world are not wasted and that the sacrifices of millions of people who gave their lives for freedom and dignity, as well as the silent suffering of those who despaired under years of poverty and oppression, were not in vain. For our part, I would like to assure the Organization and the international community that Afghanistan will be a full and cooperative partner in all constructive collective efforts aimed at ensuring international peace, stability, progress, freedom and justice. May God bless everyone present and help us all in our efforts. Your unanimous election, Sir, to the presidency of the forty- eighth session of the General Assembly represents a just recognition of your great diplomatic experience, your human qualities and your constant commitment to the promotion of Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 11 dialogue and multilateral cooperation in the service of peace, security and development. I should like to congratulate you most warmly on the well-deserved tribute from the international community both to you personally and to your country. I am particularly pleased that the prestigious responsibility of guiding the work of the General Assembly has been given this year to an eminent son of Guyana, a country which, side-by-side with Algeria, has always been resolutely in the forefront of the defence of the cause of peace, justice, progress and understanding among nations. Your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, firmly and tactfully conducted a busy and productive forty-seventh session. We wish to express our deep gratitude to him for a mission accomplished with open-mindedness and dedication. I also wish to pay special tribute to the Secretary- General of our Organization, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has spared no effort in making the United Nations rise to the many and complex challenges of a crucial period in the development of international relations. His foresight, courage and initiative have won him the esteem of all. His persevering activity bears for the United Nations the promise of the renewal after which our peoples fervently aspire. Algeria extends a warm welcome to the new Member States which have joined our Organization, and is gratified that their accession to the membership of the United Nations will contribute to the achievement of its objectives in the areas of peace and development. In recent years, the history of the world has accelerated its pace considerably. Rapid and profound changes have put paid to an international order that had long been frozen in place by the cold war. However, far from moving steadily toward the achievement of a well-ordered international society, those changes have generated the makings of a disquieting explosion. While the world changes under our very eyes, we are unable to grasp and take cognizance of the laws that govern such change. This dynamic, and the major upheavals it causes, have shaped a new geopolitical configuration in many parts of the world that has affected the lives of many of its peoples. Given this type of change, wherein inter-State relations are jostled by a proliferation of protagonists, of ambitions and gambles, and of the methods of international action there is a need for a collective effort to revitalize both our means of knowing and our methods of action. In short, we need to rethink the world order. We must, as a community of nations, succeed in controlling the changes which are taking place and the unwieldy trends that are now emerging. In this maelstrom of historical change, this period of transition with all its hesitations and emerging global dangers, the thing that attracts one’s attention more than any other is the hope, the promise of a new world order that must be fashioned side by side with the daily suffering that goes on in the world and which we cannot ignore. Indeed, in spite of the glowing promises of peace and international cooperation, the world order that is taking shape now not only contains too many old hotbeds of tension, but also gives rise to new mushrooming conflicts. Tensions between ethnic and religious groups are increasing and are being exacerbated while whole regions, and even entire continents, are being marginalized in a most atrocious manner. The right of peoples to self-determination is being violated and obstructed here and there. Hunger and poverty are expanding. Imbalances in the world economy are deepening and worsening. All of these situations pose challenges to the international community that call for urgent and concerted action. It is therefore up to us - and this is the challenge faced by all nations that are bound by an ever-growing interdependence - to see to it that the ideals of justice and peace prevail, that new possibilities for the settlement of certain regional conflicts and for general and complete disarmament lead to comprehensive action eliminating the root causes of conflicts while, at the same time, promoting economic and social development, a prerequisite for international peace and security. This is why it is appropriate to underscore here the fact that the Agenda for Peace (A/47/277), whose importance is recognized everywhere, will achieve its objectives only if it is accompanied by an agenda for development; for peace and development are closely interrelated, and conflicts too often take root in the soil of injustice and poverty. It is obvious that the future of the system of collective security which we wish to build will depend to a great extent on our ability to forge a consensus on the different aspects contained in the Agenda for Peace. This means that it is necessary for us to continue, collectively and without bias, to consider those aspects of the Secretary-General’s report about which differences persist or which require further elaboration and consideration. The encouraging progress achieved in strengthening the capability of the United Nations in the areas of active preventive diplomacy, as well as in peace-keeping and peacemaking operations, should be welcomed, but a great deal remains to be done in this field if we are to make better 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session use of all the experience gained in those areas by the United Nations. We should see to it that our action remains strictly faithful to the goals and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. Algeria, which is honoured to participate actively and concretely in peace-keeping operations, will continue to do its share in this collective endeavour in the service of peace. The restructuring, revitalization and rationalization of the structures of the organs of the United Nations and their working methods have made considerable progress. However, this process, which is not an end in itself, will produce its full effects only if the Member States, and particularly the developed countries, reaffirm and strengthen their commitment to the United Nations and renew their political and financial support for its activities, particularly in the economic and social spheres. It is this exacting and responsible approach that my country consistently promotes in all the areas of cooperation in which it takes part. In so doing, Algeria conducts its own action within the context of the efforts by the Non-Aligned Movement toward greater democratization of the United Nations and better balance between the spheres of competence of its organs. In our view, it is time we reflected collectively on how to reform the Security Council, with a view to broadening its composition, improving its working methods and making it more accountable for its action to the entire international community in whose name it adopts its resolutions. A more representative, more transparent Security Council that would be more cognizant of the views and concerns of all; a General Assembly that would fully play its role in activating, guiding and supervising; and a United Nations system that would be more coherent and better coordinated in carrying out its development tasks: these are the three pivotal approaches that may give to the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization significant political scope and operational content and generate the makings of a new beginning. The credibility of the United Nations and the effectiveness of its action depend on this, as do international peace, security and cooperation. All the initiatives by my country at the national and regional levels are inspired by the ideals of peace, justice and cooperation. The national-renewal plan upon which Algeria has embarked in the interests of political stability, the consolidation of the democratic process, the revitalization of economic growth and the upholding of the rule of law is a plan that translates into action our resolve to guarantee, for all Algerians, the rights to security and well-being in a just, modern and democratic society. Given this determination, our efforts in combating terrorism and our efforts aimed at providing the conditions for real growth stem from the same overriding priority, that of meeting the expectations of our people be fulfilled by restoring the authority of the State and creating the conditions for an orderly transition that would make possible stable and coherent progress towards a market economy through viable and orderly reforms. Such a vast enterprise must find its expression and derive its support from an active foreign policy based on the principles and ideals of non-alignment and geared towards the promotion of peace, stability and cooperation at the regional and international levels. In this spirit, Algeria works steadily and resolutely for success in the process of building a united Maghreb. The important achievements that have been made so far, which will help us to benefit from the complementary nature of the countries of the union of the Arab Maghreb, confirm that the dynamics of this unifying process have enabled us to mobilize our energies, despite certain persistent problems that affect regional stability. Our country’s central position in the region, its resolve to reinforce and promote the building of the Maghreb and its commitment to international legality have prompted it to encourage the kingdom of Morocco and the Polisario Front to turn to direct, sincere, constructive dialogue that can facilitate the implementation of the peace plan prepared jointly by the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity, with the full agreement of the two parties concerned. It is important, now more than ever before, that the dialogue which was initiated at El-Ayoun between Morocco and the Polisario Front should resume and continue at an authoritative level. Algeria, for its part, hopes that the two parties will choose the path of reason and that will do all in their power to resolve outstanding questions in a serious manner and without delay, thus promoting the holding of a free and orderly referendum on self-determination for the people of Western Sahara. Algeria is convinced that a just a lasting solution to the question of Western Sahara can promote stability and peace in the region. We therefore hope that the international community, as well as the United Nations and its Secretary-General, will redouble efforts to ensure, in the best conditions of credibility and impartiality, implementation of the United Nations settlement plan, with the complete cooperation of the two parties. Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 13 The same applies to the Mediterranean region. In fact, Algeria has always worked to make that region, with the participation of all the States concerned, one of peace, stability and mutually advantageous cooperation. It is to this end that we continue to work for the consolidation and deepening of political agreement in our region and for the establishment of new types of cooperation. Algeria is therefore making constant efforts to have the forum of '5 + 5' activated, as this is a promising framework for cooperation between North and South in the Mediterranean. It is in the field of disarmament that the end of the cold war has produced tangible results most rapidly. However, considerable work remains to be done, especially by the nuclear Powers. The final cessation of nuclear testing in all environments and the renunciation of the development of new weapon systems are objectives the attainment of which is now within the reach of the international community - provided, of course, that the nuclear Powers go beyond current agreements and summon up the necessary political will for this purpose. In this context, Algeria notes with interest and with hope the proposals made from this rostrum on 27 September by the President of the United States of America. The complete elimination of all weapons of mass destruction is, in fact, part of the logic of history. The conclusion of the Convention on the prohibition of chemical weapons has shown that this objective is no longer Utopian. Any approach to the question of disarmament and international security and, in the final analysis, to the question of peace should be universal in scope. This is a conviction that is being reiterated time after time by Algeria and by the Non-Aligned Movement. Disarmament, if it is to be lasting, must take account of all aspects of the situation, and not of the military dimension alone. It is now clear that, in an increasingly interdependent world, peace and security cannot be dissociated from their natural corollaries - socio-economic development and the promotion of all human rights. The protection and promotion of human rights - all human rights - is a high priority for Algeria. Therefore, we are pleased at the positive results of the World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna, which expressed support for an integrated and global approach to human rights, whose civil, political, economic and social aspects reinforce and complement each other. Algeria, which subscribes completely to this view and endorses this approach, is now at a juncture that makes it an obligation of the State to give priority to human rights, to protection of the fundamental right to life and to personal security. In this context, the restoration of public order and the struggle against terrorism are manifestations of Algeria’s determination to give a firm guarantee of the development of human rights and the building of a lasting democracy based on the rule of law, the changeover of political power between parties and republican principles. This declared struggle against terrorism has an internal aspect, but it has international dimensions as well. Here we should like to make it abundantly clear that Algeria will continue to oppose, firmly and with the utmost determination, every outside attempt at destabilization and that it will tolerate no interference in its internal affairs. It is Algeria’s belief that the international community must assert itself and mobilize its energy to defeat the modern barbarity of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. It is therefore important for the deliberations at this session of the General Assembly vigorously to lead to the formulation of an international convention on the prevention and repression of terrorism. While a number of regional conflicts are on the way to pacification and lasting settlement, others, however, there is no peaceful, just solution in sight. In the Middle East, which has been buffeted for decades by waves of suffering and confrontation, new prospects are emerging. Algeria welcomed the recent agreement between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel and expressed the hope that it would be the first step towards an overall settlement of the Middle East conflict in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). Now as in the past, Algeria which stands firmly behind the independence of decision-making by the Palestinian leaders calls upon the Palestinians to close ranks and reaffirms its support for the PLO. At this crucial stage for the future of the region, Algeria believes that the international community continues to be responsible for building peace. For that peace to be genuine and lasting, it must be comprehensive and must meet the national aspirations of the Palestinian people and restore all the territories occupied by Israel, including Al-Quds Al- Sharif. As an Arab country, Algeria, naturally, is intimately involved in the future of the Arab world. Overcoming the aftermath of the Gulf war ought to open the way to the inter-Arab reconciliation for which our peoples fervently hope. Since Iraq has undertaken to meet fully all the obligations stemming from Security Council resolutions and 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session since international law has established the geographical basis for peaceful neigbourliness between Iraq and Kuwait, we hope that the outstanding humanitarian questions will soon be resolved so that the collective conscience of the Arab peoples may be able finally to heal itself of the scars of the Gulf war. My country reaffirms its support for the Government of the United Arab Emirates in its legitimate efforts to regain sovereignty over the three islands under illegal foreign occupation. Algeria welcomes with hope the positive developments in South Africa, despite the continuing violence and other factors that endanger peace. The agreement to set up the Transitional Executive Council holds promise for the speedy achievement of a united, democratic, non-racial South Africa. Chairman Nelson Mandela’s call from this rostrum for the lifting of economic sanctions against South Africa is further testimony to his lofty sense of responsibility and an illustration of the progress that has been achieved in the peaceful dismantling of apartheid. This development deserves the full attention of the international community, which should spare no effort in contributing to putting an end to the inter-ethnic violence and to provide the means by which the democratic forces can participate effectively in the long-awaited elections. Algeria also follows attentively developments in several fraternal African countries. We encourage the peace efforts of the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the relevant subregional organizations. We note with satisfaction the progress achieved in Mozambique, Rwanda and Liberia, and express the hope that those countries will overcome their problems with the help of the international community and devote all their energy to reconstruction and development. We hope that peace and harmony will be restored in Angola in accordance with the agreements reached between the two parties and with the resolutions of the Security Council, which have clearly determined where the responsibilities lie. We are gravely concerned about the ongoing violence in Somalia, particularly in Mogadishu. It reminds us that humanitarian assistance and promoting political solutions must go hand in hand. The tragedy of Somalia is the most telling symbol to date of Africa’s marginalization in international relations, and it attests to the tragic effects of the international community’s inadequate response to Africa’s clear needs with respect to economic and social development. The tragedy in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a challenge to the world’s conscience. In spite of the Security Council’s many resolutions, the acquisition of territory by force, 'ethnic cleansing' and trampling of all the norms of international law continue to prevail there. In the absence of firm action by the international community, the dismemberment of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a State Member of the United Nations, continues unabated, and puts at risk the peace and stability of that country and of the region as a whole. Algeria expresses its solidarity with the Bosnian people, and most particularly with its Muslims, who have been the victim of untold hardships. We appeal to the international community to reject the fait accompli imposed by aggression and help protect the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The international situation is not disturbing at the political and security levels alone but is also causing concern because of the persistence of world recession, the deteriorating economic situation of the developing countries, and the grave instability brought about by profound changes in international economic relations. At a time when our interdependent world is in the midst of a complex and perilous historic transition, the communication gap between North and South must come to an end. The universal imperative of peace, security and development makes us consider the developing situation in the countries of the South. Most of them are facing the challenges of globalization with economies made uniquely vulnerable by the crushing weight of foreign indebtedness, their precarious internal balance and a highly unfavourable international economic environment. The efforts of developing countries to promote economic growth and make the structural changes necessary for development are made far more difficult and risky by the erosion of multilateral cooperation, the conflicting interests of the dominant economic players and the constraints imposed by economic decisions that are too often selfish and exclusionary. It is therefore essential to respond in a concerted fashion to the need for an orderly restructuring of international economic relations by establishing coordinated mechanisms to regulate the functioning of the world economy. In this context, it is important that the questions of debt, the scarcity of capital and technology inflows, to the countries of the South, the continued decline in commodity prices, the deterioration of the terms of trade and the difficulty of access to markets should become the focus of Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 15 the international community’s attention in order for us to find lasting solutions to such problems. Such a collective concerted type of action that would be consonant with the requirements of adjustment by the developing countries themselves, is a must if we are to relaunch the international economy on a fair and well- balanced basis and make it possible for the developing countries to reap the expected benefits from the economic reforms they have undertaken. This would make meaningful the sacrifices being made by the developing countries in undertaking the necessary restructuring changes aimed at relaunching their economies and integrating them into the world economy. It would also make it possible for the international community to learn from the experiences acquired in debt management and structural adjustment programmes. Lastly, it would promote the creation of a true market environment in the developing countries. The Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro demonstrated that environmental protection is inconceivable without the promotion of sustainable development and sustained growth in the developing countries. We must therefore work determinedly towards achieving this objective and place sustainable development on the agenda of the new world order. The holding of a world summit on social development scheduled for 1995 to deal with problems of human security affords us an opportunity to engage in an international dialogue on the implications and results of transition in the world. The United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions must grasp these new problems and contribute to developing a new framework for reflection and guidance to direct better the evolution of the international system. This endeavour may seem difficult, but it is essential for a better understanding of this new order, which we wish to be balanced, fair and consensual. It would also tend to support the Secretary-General’s efforts to draw up an agenda for development. At a time when our Organization faces various challenges, the reform, restructuring and revitalization process now under way in the United Nations acquires special importance. Restructuring the Secretariat and the economic and social sectors, revitalizing the Economic and Social Council, relaunching the operational development activities of the United Nations system and assuring the stable and predictable growth of its resources are all tasks that should be combined to give multilateral action the utmost credibility and effectiveness. This undertaking is part of the vast effort to equip the United Nations for and adapt it to present and future challenges, and it requires participation by all of us. This endeavour is the vessel for feeding the faith of the peoples of the United Nations in an indivisible humankind. It is bound to succeed so long as our more democratic and more effective Organization is the active centre and catalyst for the promotion of fair and equitably shared development and the foundation of a peace built by mankind as a whole. It has been four years since the end of the cold war and the fall of the old ideological order. Four years ago we were told that war and global confrontation had ended and that history itself had come to an end, giving 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session way to a new age. Today, yesterday’s hopes and illusions are confronted by a reality with which we are all familiar. What is keeping us from turning our world into a fertile field and a common abode for all human beings? These meetings are taking place at a time when a feeling of hope animates the hearts of men. The agreements signed between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization have shown that peace is possible and that living in harmony does not require portentous events, but only awareness and willingness. We all know that these first agreements, if respected by both parties, can lead to a new dawn not only for Israel and Palestine but for all the countries of the Middle East - a new awakening of peace and prosperity in which this sublime teaching of the Koran can be made real: 'Those who believe (in the Qur-an), And those who follow the Jewish (scriptures), And the Christians and the Sabians,- Any who believe in God And the Last Day, And work righteousness, Shall have their reward With their Lord: on them Shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve.' (Surah II, 62) But while Israelis and Palestinians are shaking hands and demonstrating their good judgement, the tragedy of Bosnia and Herzegovina continues to fill the world with shame. A Member State of the United Nations which is not expressing ethnic or religious intolerance is trying to survive the bloodiest harassment witnessed by Europe since 1945 - nations respond with passivity and indifference. It is shameful that an international community rejoicing at the end of the cold war has not been able to take more decisive and effective action in respect to the inhuman aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina. Decade after decade, the echoes of that cold war were heard in this Hall. The East-West confrontation was viewed as the supreme obstacle facing the countries of the world in attempting to respond to their peoples’s common yearning for liberty, justice and development. The ideological division, we were told, hampered the efforts made to ensure that all humanity benefited from development. Today we no longer talk about the cold war, nor about ideological conflict, nor about the balance of terror. Nevertheless, the reality of what happened during those years continues to brand us. Some walls have come down but still others have been built. The peoples of Asia, Africa and Latin America remain forgotten, marginalized, second- class human beings. The technological gap has become an abyss. Material progress is increasingly remote from our countries, and cooperation is decreasing before our very eyes. The North-South dialogue has once again been reduced to an implacable monologue or, in the best of cases, a rhetorical exercise to which justice and equity are rarely invited. And when we speak of new initiatives for cooperation, such as those recently announced for the people of Palestine, thought is given not to a global increase in aid but, rather, to cutbacks in other programmes. As an old and graphic Spanish proverb puts it: 'You undress one saint so that you can dress another '. What does the new peace mean for the countries of the third world? The assurance that their children will not be killed by bullets, but will continue to die of hunger or endemic diseases? The certainty that they will no longer have to go to war, but will continue without schooling, without a dignified life, decent jobs or proper medical care? Sometimes ironic statements are made about the optimism of the diplomacy of the 1920s, with its agreements to renounce war and its naive faith in the capacity of the League of Nations to resolve every difficulty. We all know what happened in the end to optimism and that League, but it seems that we have not really learned the lesson. If the international community of the 1990s does not translate the end of the cold war into a true effort to build one world, in which there are no first- or second-rate countries, we shall very soon experience realities more tragic than those we have already known. My country was overjoyed at the General Assembly’s decision to choose you, Sir, to preside over the forty-eighth session. You have the most sincere congratulations of Costa Rica, a country that, like Guyana, forms part of the great Caribbean brotherhood. We are certain that, under your guidance, the General Assembly will be able to fulfil mankind’s hopes for peace and development. We should like to express our sympathy to the Government and people of India at this time of grief for them. The present situation is especially critical for the Central American and Caribbean States, which, because of their territorial dimensions, demographic situations and weak economies, are of little significance to the developed world. When the small, peripheral nations like ours try to unite our efforts, we are immediately faced with the locked doors of the international financial organizations, the large economic blocs and the transnational corporations, which even try to create apprehension and confrontation among us. Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993 9 We are not asking for handouts. Begging is not part of a realistic and wide-reaching international policy. What our countries need is greater understanding of our realities, greater openness for our products, and more sincere and effective support for our desire to live in peace and democracy. What developing nations need is a change in attitude originating from a sense of the inalienable identity of humankind, a change in that amazing effrontery shown by the developed world for our tragedies. The case of Central America clearly demonstrates the direction in which this widespread indifference is taking us. It is taking us into a prolonged and difficult effort, in which the international community is providing wide support. The people of Central America left behind many years of bloody convulsions. They decided to embark with enthusiasm on a new life, cemented in peace, democracy and freedom. But that joyful Central America, reborn for its children, has seen how the doors close one after another. Those who were interested in a Central America full of bloodshed and trenches do not want to deal with a Central America of the poor, the Central America that calls for cooperation for development, for understanding of its human and economic tragedies. Figures can be deceiving. For example, it is said that Nicaragua receives $500 million in foreign aid. That sounds very good. What is not stated is that $450 million of the $500 million goes back to where it came from to service the external debt. In the meantime in that sister country even more disturbing outbreaks of violence flourish, reflecting its distressing situation. Recently an attempted coup d’état in Guatemala failed, but that failure did not translate into greater external support for the consolidation of Guatemalan democracy in the sectors most needed. We do not know in which Central American country the next crisis will come, but it will not be long before it happens. It is regrettable that those who said so much about democracy and freedom and about peace and development in Central America are no longer being heard from. Today my delegation asks where is that support. What of the promises, the golden offerings, the abundant talk of a few years ago? For example, let us take the case of banana production. Throughout the bloody crisis in Central America the European Community time and time again expressed its support for a peaceful and negotiated solution. It effusively supported the initiatives to transform Central America into a land of freedom and democracy, to keep our countries away from the strategic interests of the large hegemonistic blocs. Now that results have been achieved, the same Europe is placing strong barriers to the entry of Central American bananas to its markets, without stopping to think about the thousands of humble families that depend on this activity. Other Latin American democracies are facing the same attitude. As if that was not enough they are trying to provoke a conflict between the banana-growing countries of the Caribbean and those of Latin America, as if, following the custom of colonial times and invoking a non-existent antagonism between brothers, promoting divisions to hide the barriers that in other cases they themselves denounce as unjust. Costa Rica believes that the time has come for frank, open dialogue that will permit a fair and adequate solution to this serious problem. For this reason we invite the member countries of the European Community and the producer countries of Latin America and the Caribbean, without exception, to enter into political talks which, together with the talks already under way at the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), will facilitate a rapprochement between the positions of the only two parties to the problem, namely the producer and consumer countries. These contacts should have as a basis the recognition of the rights of the Latin American countries to sell their fruit in the Common Market and the reaffirmation of preferential treatment given to the Caribbean countries in the context of the Lomé Conventions. While democracy endeavours to put down roots in Central America, markets for Central American products are being restricted by developed countries, cooperation programmes are being decreased or canceled, and attitudes of inexplicable severity are being adopted in commercial and financial negotiations, and even in diplomatic relations. The Central America of peace and freedom is being dealt with in a way that the Central America of violence was never treated. My country, which for many decades has not suffered from the Calvary of dictatorship and civil war, which has maintained intact its tradition of effective respect for human rights, has also had to face the same attitudes of indifference and lack of awareness. In this matter we draw attention to the disturbing decision of the United States Government to admit an administrative action brought before it against Costa Rica in which it is argued that the Costa Rican workers are not being guaranteed internationally recognized rights. This claim ignores our labour legislation which deals with rights and guarantees for workers and has gone further in more than 50 years than those of many developed countries, including the United States. The threat of excluding Costa Rica from commercial preference systems is not only a clear interference in its internal jurisdiction but 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session also ignores the basic principles governing coexistence among nations, and, more specifically, respect for sovereign rights, and that attitude is at variance with traditional democratic principles and values which have always existed between both peoples and Governments. The task of consolidating the achievements of the Central American peace process is everyone’s responsibility. In the first place, as a new political commitment, the securing of peace and democracy and making human development a priority require a true national consensus sustained by a broad and participatory commitment, one that involves Governments and the organized sectors of civil society. Secondly, a renewed and creative attitude on the part of Central American Governments is needed, an attitude that will rework and update the regional political agreements and, from a new point of view, will direct regional efforts towards creating a new Central America. We want a Central America where peace, freedom, democracy and development will prevail and this requires national and regional consensus on fundamental subjects such as enforcing the rule of law, strengthening democratic institutions, developing a democratic political culture, promoting and enforcing human rights, economic and political decentralization, decision- making at the local level, the modernization of production, guaranteeing equality of opportunity, widening the possibilities for economic participation, social development, and, finally, preserving our heritage for the society of the future. Thirdly, the collaboration and commitment of Central Americans in the creation of this new Central America is necessary, but at the same time the participation of the international community is indispensable in order to fulfil the commitments made by the region in its transition to peace, freedom, democracy and development. In this perspective Costa Rica urges the General Assembly to decide in due course to offer its political and material support to this new challenge that is Central America at the end of this century. In the present state of affairs the role of international and regional organizations as promoters and guarantors of peace and supporters of harmony and cooperation among the nations of the world is particularly decisive. For many long years lamentations were heard about the problems created for the United Nations by ideological conflicts which hindered the Organization and made it impossible for it to act dynamically and effectively. We have left such sombre hours behind and without doubt there have been important signs that this and other international organizations can and must provide many valuable and decisive contributions to the international community as a whole. Precisely for this reason we find ourselves at a key moment and we must now redefine and transform the United Nations and the regional organizations and make them vital mechanisms so that a life of peace, freedom and development will illuminate all the countries of the world. A little more than a year ago the Secretary-General presented us with a series of important ideas regarding the restructuring of the United Nations. My country has expressed support for these wise proposals but at the same time we consider that the present circumstances are especially important and that this is an opportunity to meditate profoundly on the appropriateness of emphasizing more the role that international organizations should play as builders of a world of peace and development for all peoples. My country considers that the United Nations cannot continue to ignore the question of the Republic of China in Taiwan. The existence of that exemplary country and the future of its 21 million inhabitants demand a revision of its relations with the United Nations. We firmly support the establishment of an ad hoc committee to study and find satisfactory solution to that problem in accordance with the fundamental principles of international law. For many years we have urged that the two important instruments of the United Nations system be created and start functioning. These two instruments - so indispensable to the attainment of that system’s aims of peace and defence of fundamental human rights - are the University for Peace and the post of High Commissioner for Human Rights. We ask for support for both institutions, which are true pillars for the realization of the principles of the Charter. My delegation applauds the efforts made by the United Nations in situations like those that exist in Haiti and Somalia. The defence of international peace and security continues to be a basic responsibility. We therefore support all efforts accepted in the cause of disarmament and arms control, and we view with special concern the case of countries that, like the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, object to controls that are directed towards ensuring the non-proliferation of nuclear arms. At the same time, however, Costa Rica considers it of fundamental importance that States Members of the United Nations not lose sight of the Organization’s role in the task of making peace productive - a 'sublime task', to borrow the term used by Amilcar Cabral to define the progressive advancement of mankind towards dignity and infinite growth. The world is one. Our shared concerns for peace and the deterioration of the environment are an ample Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993 11 demonstration of this. Why not also acknowledge that mankind is one and that all who form part of mankind have a right to development and freedom? The commitments undertaken last year in Rio de Janeiro at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development to join in the search for sustainable development, in all its economic and environmental as well as its political, social and cultural dimensions, constitute a fundamental requirement if we are to achieve true peace and a dignified life for all the peoples of today’s and tomorrow’s world. The convening of the Conference and the agreements reached there, notwithstanding their limitations, are major achievements for the Organization. In this connection, the fact that many countries, including my own, have engaged in activities to carry out the commitments entered into there is of great importance. We also welcome the actions taken by the United Nations at the International Conference on Population and Development, the World Conference on Women, and the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, aimed at broadening discussions about the hoped-for development. But if those efforts are to be successful, it is indispensable that the promises made by the industrialized countries at the Rio Summit be fulfilled - that is, that they provide new and additional financial aid, something they have so far done on a fairly meagre scale. For nearly half a century, we have been living amid division, struggles about ideologies, worries over hegemonies. To a large extent, those sterile years are now behind us, but so much remains to be done. We are still confronted by hatreds of all kinds, by a polluted world, by natural disasters, by illiteracy and by peoples suffering from hunger and disease. However, if the international system managed to avoid allowing the cold war to lead to military catastrophe, surely it can find solutions to these other catastrophes that are afflicting mankind. If we do not want the military and ideological alliances of past years to re- emerge, we must replace them as soon as possible with a solidarity that is not founded on economic interests. My delegation firmly believes that the Organization can and must effect, as a priority, the qualitative transformation required by the international community - that is, the creation of a great family, without East or West, North or South. Brothers and sisters know nothing of the points of the compass. In his book entitled Things Fall Apart Chinua Achebe tells of a community in Nigeria where the harvest was poor. Attempting to encourage a young man, his father tells him: 'Do not be disheartened. I know you will not be disheartened. You have a brave and dignified heart. A dignified heart can survive a serious problem because the problem does not impinge upon his dignity. But it is more difficult and more bitter when you face it alone.' Hope resides in solidarity and in union. Mankind is one. All the peoples of the world must understand that we share the same future, that there are no longer problems that affect only others or differing destinies for mankind. Working together with goodwill and in one spirit, we will be able to transform our world into a common home, into a fertile ground for the promotion of and respect for the dignity of all human beings, joined to face a common future of peace, justice and freedom. On behalf of the delegation of Benin and on behalf of the Government and the people of Benin, I should like to extend my warm congratulations to Ambassador Insanally on his well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. His unanimous election as leader of our deliberations testifies to his abilities; it is also represents an honour for his country and draws attention to the role played by Caribbean countries in the international arena. I take this opportunity to extend my sincere congratulations to his predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, who Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 43 ably presided over the work of the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session. It is also a great pleasure and a privilege for me to pay a well-deserved tribute to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the United Nations, who effectively and successfully heads this global Organization and who is working intensively to restore peace and security to the various hotbeds of tension throughout the world. The delegation of Benin solemnly welcomes the new States that have joined the world community to make their contribution to respect for the common basic values of the new society which together, we, the people of the world, are endeavouring to build. I welcome the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Eritrea, the Principality of Monaco and the Principality of Andorra, whose admission enhances the universality of this Organization. We are meeting here, as we do each year under similar circumstances, to consider together ways and means of promoting peace and prosperity for all our peoples. Since the last session of the General Assembly, we have witnessed many important events that have given the international community as a whole new prospects and new challenges in its quest for peace. We welcome the fact that the confrontation between the two blocs, which for so long had created political tension, has today been replaced by the universal values of democracy and equality in international relations. These values are interdependent with economic and social development and with the security of all States. It is also encouraging to see that renewed confidence in the effectiveness of the United Nations in settling conflicts has strengthened the credibility and the capacity to act of the Organization, opening up new areas in which it is able to encourage the settlement of a vast range of problems that afflict humankind. In just five years, the tasks of the Organization in the area of maintaining peace have increased and widened considerably. Despite positive developments, changes currently under way that were designed to provide for greater freedom and encourage the establishment of more just and more dynamic societies have unfortunately also become the source of new challenges and even greater uncertainty in international relations. Each day, in one place or another on our planet, civil wars, territorial partition, ethnic confrontations and tribal or religious struggles demand the urgent intervention of the United Nations. We can see, therefore, how difficult is the task of the Organization, which is obliged to respect a fragile balance between the sovereignty of States and the duty to intervene. In Europe, the political picture has changed dramatically in just a few years. The hopes born of the disappearance of the Berlin Wall have been virtually dashed by another, anachronistic war in the former Yugoslavia and by the situation in some of the States that emerged from the disintegration of the Soviet Union, thus threatening stability and security on the old continent. In Africa, major civil wars continue to rage. These wars are responsible for the untold suffering and destruction which are hampering efforts at socio-economic development and recovery in our continent. Africa needs peace and security. Without them the courageous and far-reaching reforms undertaken at the political and economic levels cannot be successful. The twenty-ninth summit of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) held in Cairo in June of this year provided us with an opportunity to adopt a mechanism for the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts. That mechanism is an important step forward in the acceptance of the imperative of peace, which is so essential to development. Indeed, conflict management remains a major concern for our countries, as the massive movements of refugees that result from conflicts distract us, to our sorrow, from the paramount task of development. West Africa, which until now has been a peaceful land of asylum, welcoming refugees from the rest of the continent and even beyond, is now living through a particularly difficult time, with an unprecedented increase in emergency situations and in the number of refugees, which in less than four years has risen from 20,000 to 1.2 million. Here, I would pay a tribute to the humanitarian activities and the considerable efforts of the United Nations to settle conflicts in Africa and elsewhere in the world. Because of the support of the United Nations, the Liberian conflict today offers encouraging prospects for a peaceful and lasting settlement. The major protagonists in 44 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session the Liberian tragedy now seem disposed towards dialogue and agreement. They met in Geneva from 10 to 17 July 1993, with the help of representatives of the Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity and the Executive Secretariat of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and of the Acting President of that Community, to seek ways and means of silencing the weapons of war and restoring peace to their country. Those present at the Geneva meeting successfully prepared a comprehensive agreement that takes account of all aspects of the Liberian tragedy. In Cotonou on 25 July 1993, representatives of the various factions and of the interim Government of Liberia signed that peace agreement, thanks to the mediation of Mr. Nicéphore Soglo, President of the Republic of Benin, and Acting President of ECOWAS. Benin is pleased by the willingness of our Liberian brothers to enter into this agreement and by their spirit of constructive and fraternal dialogue, without which nothing positive could have been achieved. Benin continues to believe that dialogue is the only way of restoring peace to this war-torn country. We welcome the positive results thus far achieved in the implementation of the agreement, most notably the observation of the cease-fire by all the warring factions and the cessation of hostilities. In particular, the delegation of Benin welcomes the unanimous adoption by the Security Council of resolution 856 (1993), which supports the efforts of ECOWAS and approves the deployment in Liberia of an advance team of 30 military observers to participate in the work of the Joint Cease-fire Monitoring Committee. We also welcome resolution 866 (1993), which establishes the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia (UNOMIL). This Mission can be made possible only by a mobilization of the international community to support the efforts of ECOWAS by, inter alia, contributing to the special trust fund, which would facilitate the dispatch of reinforcements to ECOMOG by the African States and help provide for the upkeep of the contingents made available to ECOMOG by the participating States, as well as by helping in carrying out the work of removing mines, providing humanitarian and developmental assistance and promoting the healthy evolution of the electoral process. The three signatories of the 25 July 1993 peace agreement met in Cotonou from 15 to 18 August 1993 to set up the Council of State, the transitional executive body. The 25 July peace agreement promises finally to put an end to the very long, devastating war in Liberia. From this rostrum, I would like to make an appeal to all the parties who signed that agreement, urging them to continue to abide by the commitments entered into during the Cotonou talks and to work with ECOWAS and the United Nations for the proper and swift implementation of those commitments, in order to put an end to the suffering of the Liberian people and ensure that the national reconciliation process will proceed to its successful completion. Along the lines of the solution under way in Liberia, we should work to ensure that peace returns to Somalia, Angola, the Sudan and Mozambique. In Angola, for example, despite the great hopes and expectations aroused by the agreements reached in Estoril, Portugal, we are seriously disturbed and deeply saddened by the resumption of hostilities following the refusal of UNITA to recognize the results of the free elections of 29 and 30 September 1992. Benin welcomes the change in the position taken by the United States Government, which has now granted diplomatic recognition to the legal Government of Angola. This action by the Clinton Administration strengthens the position of the international community in support of the verdict of the ballot box rather than the compulsion of the gun. In South Africa, developments are encouraging. The multipartite talks made it possible to reach an agreement on, inter alia, the establishment of a transitional executive council and the holding of the first democratic and non-racial elections in the history of South Africa, scheduled for 27 April 1994. The Government of Benin supports the courageous and responsible appeal by the Chairman of the African National Congress, Mr. Nelson Mandela, before the Special Committee against Apartheid in this prestigious Hall of the General Assembly on 24 September 1993. He invited the international community to lift all economic sanctions against South Africa, except for the arms embargo. Given the positive development that will lead this country, which is undergoing a process of reform, to implement the principle of 'one man, one vote', the time has come for all Members of our universal Organization to support the peaceful transformation of South Africa. Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 45 Benin wishes to see the African continent free itself of all fratricidal and internal wars, of all conflicts that impede its development. It is my firm hope that the logic of war will now progressively yield to the logic of peace and development in Africa. Turning to the Middle East, 26 years after Israel’s occupation of the Arab territories, Benin cannot but greet with joy the historic agreement between the Israeli Government and the Palestine Liberation Organization granting autonomy to Gaza and Jericho. That agreement marks the beginning of a just and lasting peace that will allow every State in the region, including Palestine and Israel, to live within secure and internationally recognized borders guaranteed by the international community. Our duty is thus to encourage the two essential parties, as well as all parties involved, to undertake or to continue the dialogue necessary for a comprehensive peace in the Middle East. In the Persian Gulf region the full restoration of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Kuwait helped to reaffirm the fundamental principles governing inter-State relations. In this connection we sincerely hope that Security Council resolution 833 (1993), on the demarcation of the international border between Iraq and Kuwait, will be respected by all States. Pending issues such as that of the Kuwaiti prisoners of war must be settled so as to open the way to fraternity, cooperation and solidarity in that subregion. The atmosphere of relaxation of tension which began with the end of the cold war and which has made possible a new spirit of consensus, inter alia in the Security Council, is still rather uncertain for much remains to be done to consolidate peace. We must recognize today that the idea of peace can no longer be based on a build-up of weapons; it must be based, rather, on concerted efforts on their reduction and complete elimination. The balance of terror is now yielding to a meeting of the minds, the hearts and the actions of man. That is why the signing of the United Nations Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, in Paris on 13-15 January 1993, not only helps to strengthen international peace and security but also offers prospects for international cooperation in the area of using the chemicals industry for peaceful purposes. Benin, which is dedicated to peace and economic and social progress, urges the international community to refrain from any military use of science so that science can be devoted to development, and international peace and security. The decision by Russia, the United States of America, the United Kingdom and France to extend their moratorium on nuclear testing until September 1994 proves that the Governments of those nuclear Powers are increasingly interested in measures that will make it possible to use scientific and technical developments exclusively for peaceful purposes. My country joins the rest of the international community in congratulating the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea on the reversal of its decision to withdraw from the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), for that withdrawal from the Treaty would only have weakened it, given that its strength lies in its universality. The determination shown by Member States to move towards the solution of regional conflicts and the new sense of urgency over new threats to the well-being of the planet create a historic opportunity for us to tackle the economic problems facing all of our countries. Indeed, this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly is taking place against a background of general economic crisis. In the new economic order which is characterized by increased trade between three dominant groups - Western Europe, North America and the Pacific- Asia zone - Africa is virtually left out. The developed North seems to have less and less need of Africa’s products and Africa for its part no longer has the means to buy the goods and services of the North. What is more, the international community does not seem very anxious to find a better way of dealing with the African countries’ debt burden. This situation cannot but lead to a slowing down in trade on the world market and directly affect African economies which are already suffering. In these circumstances our survival necessarily requires sustained regional integration so that we can be in a better position to deal with the vicissitudes of the international economic environment and take up the challenge of how to develop our own continent. 46 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session In his 'An Agenda for Peace' the Secretary-General emphasized the role of regional organizations in establishing peace and preventive diplomacy. This role naturally extends to development too. We cannot overemphasize the importance of integration for development. In the case of Africa such integration is a means of encouraging trade, investment, and research and development cooperation among African countries. That is why the Heads of State or Government of the members of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), meeting in Cotonou from 22 to 24 July 1993, adopted and signed a revised Treaty of the Economic Community of West African States and reaffirmed their determination to bring a new dynamism to the process of regional integration. If the development of Africa is primarily the responsibility of the Africans themselves, it is no less important for the international community to recognize the principle of shared responsibility and full partnership with Africa. In this connection we should note that the implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s is not living up to all the hopes that the African countries placed in it. It is necessary further to strengthen national capacities and to create a climate that is favourable to development. While Benin welcomes the study on the need and the feasibility of the establishment of a fund to diversify African commodities, we strongly hope that bolder action will be taken with a view to implementing the new programme and ensuring the input of the major financial contributions which are necessary for the establishment of the fund in 1994. Hence we must increase the quality and the quantity of assistance to Africa. In this spirit Benin will in a few days be participating in the Tokyo International Conference on African Development. This Conference, to be held against the backdrop of the new world economic and political order of the post-cold-war era, will provide the international community with a new framework for discussing how to reaffirm the question of Africa’s economic development as one of the major concerns of the world today. Our hope, widely shared by African countries, is that the Conference, apart from adopting a declaration, will actually lead to specific actions and commitments in support of Africa. The African countries also hope that the Tokyo Declaration of 9 July 1993 of the Group of Seven industrialized countries - which was designed to replace the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank Structural Adjustment Programme with another mechanism that would be better adapted to the conditions and realities of developing countries - will soon take effect. If this new mechanism is to have some hope of succeeding, it will have to be drawn up following consultations with the countries that are actually experiencing the harsh social consequences of the Structural Adjustment Programme. If we are to win this wager for development, to which Africa aspires, we have to involve women and children, who represent the majority of the populations of our countries, and so, above all, we have to educate and train young people and adults. In this connection, the Government of the Republic of Benin is actively preparing for the International Year of the Family in 1994. We shall also be participating with great interest in the International Conference on Population and Development, to be held in Cairo from 5 to 13 September 1994. In addition, we wish to make a real contribution to the preparatory work for the World Conference on Women, which will be held in Beijing in 1995. The fact that these various conferences are to be held shows that matters relating to social development are eliciting unprecedented interest in the world. This can also be seen from the decision to convene a World Summit for Social Development in 1995. This renewal of interest is motivated by the profound changes in the social and political situation in the world, and the shifting of priorities at the State level. Democracy cannot become stronger unless there is at least a minimum level of prosperity for peoples. One obstacle to this strengthening of democracy and thus the full development of human rights is poverty, the poverty in which the majority of our populations live. The right to development has been ignored for too long. It must now be regarded as a priority right, a sacred right. Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 47 This right to development is the right to dignity, to personal development, and is not compatible with the subhuman status afflicting millions of human beings, particularly in Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean. The right to development is a human right and a national right, and that is why we welcome the conclusions of the World Conference on Human Rights, which was held in Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993. That Conference certainly marked the beginning of a new era which, we trust, will witness the gradual elimination of the current international economic order, in which two thirds of mankind cannot meet their basic needs and in which 600 million human beings are living in almost absolute poverty. The elimination of such poverty is one of the basic objectives of Agenda 21. The establishment of an International Day for the Eradication of Poverty, the first of which will be celebrated on 17 October next, is one step in this direction. We can never say often enough that the major ecological problems facing our countries today have a planetary dimension that requires a world-wide approach. This is why the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio in June 1992, made sustainable development one of the major concerns of the international community. That Conference marked a turning-point in the way that we look at our future. It must now be approached in an integrated manner as we work on our development policies. Agenda 21, the basic document that emerged from that Conference, is an enormous programme of action for the late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries. It requires Governments to adopt national strategies focused on sustainable development, in close cooperation with the private and public sectors. Here I am happy to draw attention to the major importance my country attaches to follow-up of the decisions and recommendations of Rio. Benin welcomes the establishment of the Commission on Sustainable Development, which held its first session here in New York from 14 to 25 June 1993, and we welcome the work of the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee for the elaboration of an international convention to combat desertification in those countries experiencing serious drought and/or desertification, particularly in Africa. That Committee has already met, from 24 May to 3 June 1993 in Nairobi and from 13 to 24 September 1993 in Geneva. Pursuant to the Rio recommendations, on 9 to 13 August 1993 Benin held a national seminar on follow-up strategies to implement the results of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, including consideration of chapter 12 of Agenda 21, on how to combat desertification and the impact of drought. The seminar was held at a time when the international community and the development partners of the third world countries were fully involved in thinking about what strategies should be used to make this concept of sustainable development operational. This seminar was proof of the political will of the Government of Benin to abide by the commitments we entered into at Rio. The Cotonou seminar recommended, inter alia, the establishment of a national commission on sustainable development. A drafting committee for a national Agenda 21, the major guidelines for which were decided on by the seminar, has been set up. It should finish its work by the end of this year. In two years, we shall be celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. The years that have passed since 1945 have been marked by ongoing, fundamental change and by a considerable increase in the membership of the Organization as well as by a significant widening of the Organization’s area of activity. It is thus obvious that the Organization needs to be restructured to meet our world’s current requirements. This is why Benin supports the efforts under way to restructure and revitalize the United Nations in its economic and social sectors and related areas. In the view of the delegation of Benin, the reform should be designed to ensure better coordination of the activities of the United Nations and wiser utilization of its human and financial resources. Benin, while still open to dialogue in negotiations, endorses the view of the Group of 77, particularly on the question of how to allocate seats on the governing bodies of bodies such as the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Fund for Population Activities and the United Nations Children’s Fund. In the political area, my country is willing to consider all proposals that take account of the concerns and interests of all the various actors, large and small, in the international political arena at the end of this second millennium. 48 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Reform of the Security Council is a matter of particular importance to all Member States. Benin will follow closely any proposal for reform that might strengthen the effectiveness of the Council and avoid transforming it into a forum for sterile debate or logjams or into an instrument that benefits only a privileged few. Before I conclude my statement, I should like to recall that if we wish to approach the next millennium in tranquillity, if we wish to draw satisfaction from the efforts made so far along the tortuous and difficult path towards development, we must do everything possible to give more sustained attention to the principle of world-wide partnership and the duty to show solidarity which is necessarily implied by the new international order that now governs the international community. It is Benin’s wish that mankind, when it draws up its first balance sheet of this new era, should see a drop in the number of ills that continue to undermine the twentieth century, namely poverty, famine, endemic diseases such as malaria, the AIDS pandemic and its devastating human, social and economic consequences, illiteracy, environmental degradation, underdevelopment, and all those other ills that beset us. In an increasingly interdependent world, and faced with this challenge, nations must agree to yield part - only part - of their national sovereignty to our universal human values, and to show greater determination to coexist despite cultural, political, social and economic differences. Only in that way can the world of the twenty-first century be a more hospitable one for people, wherever they may live and whoever they may be. Allow me at the outset, Sir, to offer you my warmest congratulations on your well-deserved election to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Your presence at the head of this Assembly clearly attests to the commitment of your country - Guyana - to the defence of peace and the promotion of multilateral diplomacy. Your skills and your experience on the international scene, acquired over many years, will, we are certain, ensure the successful conclusion of our deliberations. My country, Guinea-Bissau, wishes to assure you of our fullest readiness to cooperate with you. Our congratulations and thanks go to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the remarkable and constructive job he did in steering the work of the forty- seventh session. We wish also to express our gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary- General of the United Nations, for the way in which he is directing the work of the Organization in this new context. We hail the advent of new Members to the great family of the United Nations: Andorra, Monaco, Eritrea, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. I am particularly honoured to have the privilege of speaking on behalf of my country, Guinea-Bissau, at the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly at a time when an increased worldwide consensus seems to be emerging, in that significant and encouraging changes are taking place in the global political and economic landscape. How many questions, expectations and, indeed, how much skepticism underlie that assertion? The end of the bipolar domination of international relations and the cessation of the cold war, which affected all continents, constitute an event that is of manifest political significance and of great historical impact - first, because it has led to the dismantling of an international order that prevailed for half a century and divided the world into hostile blocs; secondly, because it has cleared a space for the development of certain processes whose free evolution was impeded because of the political discipline imposed, within each bloc, by the demands of the conflicts between the two super-Powers. The world power pattern has changed. This has led to a shift in certain countries’ relative positions in the economic and political hierarchy. The very nature of the relations between these countries is changing. However, the rules and practices that will constitute the basis of the new international order have not yet been defined. As happens in periods of history marked by great changes - especially unpredictable changes - we are now witnessing the emergence of factors that give rise to both integration and disintegration, to the order and disorder that are alternating in international behaviour and in the conduct of international affairs. The new and old orders are fighting for primacy in the development of an international system, and it is no longer easy to distinguish between the past and the future. The new international context gives rise to considerable anxiety, especially as it poses several questions that have not yet been answered. For example, it is not clear how political hegemony can be exercised in a system that has become multipolar; strong tendencies towards globalization and towards regionalization are emerging on the international scene, and one wonders how these can be reconciled; the nation State’s decision-making capacity is limited by transnational players, and its prerogatives of sovereignty are being ceded in order that it may be incorporated into broader political and economic entities, even as ancient ethnic groups are claiming the right to be regarded as nation States; one sees increasing capitalist competition in a situation in which economic interdependence imposes new parameters for the settlement of conflicts of interest; one is witnessing a world- wide heightening of awareness of the responsibility of us all with regard to ecological matters, and, at the same time, one has to deal with the means of sharing responsibility between the various countries. This is hardly an exhaustive list, but it is sufficient to demonstrate the extent to which the international agenda is being broadened and made more complicated. The future of many countries will depend on the items on that agenda and on our capacity to organize our approach to them. Given this situation, it is absolutely vital that the closest possible contact between nations be maintained by means of the exchange of information, joint thinking and discussion, so that awareness of the changes that are under way and of their possible impact on a continent such as Africa may be deepened. At the beginning of my statement, I mentioned the emergence of a universal consensus that has stemmed form the changes in the international system. The wide prospects that have opened up, in terms of the peaceful settlement of conflicts and the elimination of tension in regions such as southern Africa, western Africa, the Maghreb, Central Europe, Eastern Europe and Asia, lead us to believe that this process, which is marked by the strong resolve of the international community to achieve lasting peace, will not turn out to be a short-term symptom of a world in upheaval. The situation prevailing in Angola is still a matter of major concern to Guinea-Bissau. My Government welcomes the unanimous adoption, by the Security Council of the United Nations, of resolution 864 (1993), which is a logical follow-up to earlier resolutions that aim at the restoration of peace to Angola. We are convinced that only dialogue can lead to a lasting solution that will result in the return of peace to that country. The parties to the conflict should comply in full with the obligations resulting from the agreements that have been signed and from the Security Council resolutions. This is the only possible way to end the suffering of the Angolan people and to respond to their legitimate desire for peace and democracy. With regard to Mozambique, we should like to express our concern at the slowness with which the Peace Agreement is being implemented. We encourage the parties concerned to continue their efforts to strengthen peace and national unity. Further, we exhort the international community to continue its support for that process. In South Africa, the abolition of the legislative pillars of apartheid is a positive step. It is now important that the last obstacles, including those caused by the climate of violence, be removed to make possible negotiations towards the creation of a non-racial and democratic South Africa. We have welcomed with satisfaction President Nelson Mandela’s appeal concerning the lifting of sanctions against South Africa. The tragedy that, daily, besets the Somali people gives us reason for great anxiety. We urge all the parties concerned to end the hostilities and to commit themselves to negotiation. We are convinced that the peace-keeping activities in Somalia, within the framework of the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNISOM II), should, above all, serve the interests of the Somali people and strengthen the fragile process of national reconciliation that is under way. We happily welcome the positive developments in Liberia - in particular, the signing, at Cotonou, of the Peace Agreement, including the provision for the establishment of a central transitional Government. However, we regret the widespread adverse effects the Liberian war has had on the territory of neighbouring countries. We express the hope that all the protagonists on the Liberian political scene will persevere in the consolidation of peace by making every effort towards reconstruction of their country. In the Maghreb, the constructive position taken by the Kingdom of Morocco and the Polisario Front makes it possible to be optimistic about developments in the situation Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 3 in Western Sahara and about the prospects for organizing a referendum under United Nations auspices. Guinea-Bissau watches with concern the conflict that is laying waste the territory of the former Yugoslavia. We believe that only an agreement acceptable to all parties involved in the conflict will put an end to this bloody episode. My Government regrets that the latest Geneva talks on peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina did not yield the expected results. We hope that the parties will adopt more flexible positions with a view to bringing about the signing of a peace agreement. Guinea-Bissau believes that the solution to this fratricidal conflict must be sought by peaceful means. That is why we continue to support the United Nations and the European Community’s negotiating effort and welcome the Security Council’s adoption of resolution 827 (1993) on the establishment of an International Tribunal. In the case of East Timor, we urge the Secretary- General to continue his efforts with the parties concerned aimed at finding a peaceful, negotiated solution to this issue. In the Middle East, peace is now possible thanks to the rapprochement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. We greet the Washington agreement with satisfaction and renewed hope. We encourage the parties to continue negotiations with a view to establishing a lasting peace throughout the region. The reunification of China is in essence the sole concern of the Chinese people. In our opinion, the international community should turn its attention to the need to recognize the fundamental rights of the 21 million inhabitants of the Republic of China. The poverty and social injustice that are the sorry lot of a large portion of humankind are amongst the underlying causes of the conflicts that constantly threaten the world’s peace and stability. The ideological tensions of the cold war seem likely to be replaced by new tensions, this time economic in origin, if adequate precautions are not taken. The United Nations must of course strengthen its structure for maintaining world peace and security, but it must also play a leading role in helping to build a stable economic system and promoting the development of the developing countries, particularly that of the least developed countries. This is without question the best and most effective form of preventive diplomacy. The economic situation in Africa is becoming more and more worrying. Today, on the eve of the twenty-first century, incomes in sub-Saharan Africa average $490 per person per year, in other words, they are the lowest in the world. The average figure masks great disparities between countries: Africa is the only region in the world where the number of people living in poverty is likely to increase markedly before the year 2000. Trends in the world economy lead us to predict that the situation will get worse. Black Africa’s share of world trade has plummeted from 3.8 per cent in 1970 to 1 per cent now, which has entailed Africa’s being relegated to the sidelines in international relations. Despite plentiful labour and investment opportunities, direct investment from the most industrialized countries is in flight from the least developed countries towards the advanced economies. Sub-Saharan Africa receives about 6 per cent of direct investment, which is profitable essentially for those few countries with oil and/or strategically important minerals. Restrictions on international trade as a result of various protectionist practices and of subsidy policies for the industrialized countries’ agricultural products are imposing severe limitations on the underdeveloped countries’ export opportunities. In this regard, can we hope that the Uruguay Round negotiations, if they succeed, will spare humankind the possible unpleasant aftermath of discriminatory practices on the part of the trading blocs? We wish to make an appeal that the next round of negotiations be planned to have all the relevance that the situation requires. In the meanwhile, it is painful for us to see how those who recommend to us that we should liberalize trade if we want to get our economies moving again can, in the blink of an eye, become fervent defenders of protectionism when they are convinced that they are defending their own interests that way. Liberal policies in the countries of the South have not a hope of succeeding unless the countries of the North systematically dismantle their protectionist barriers and open up their markets. The transition to effective and lasting market economies requires further buttressing from the international community. Most of the underdeveloped countries, particularly in Africa, have recognized the errors that were committed in their post-colonial economic management. They have therefore embarked, with the assistance of the international financial organizations and other partners abroad, on radical economic reforms aimed at laying the foundations for economic growth and development. Enormous political and social costs have had to be borne in 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session carrying out these reforms, but the will to succeed is still there despite all the odds against it. Unfortunately, these efforts have been overwhelmed by the massive reductions in financial assistance from the industrialized countries and the multilateral organizations. The target set by the United Nations for official development assistance (ODA), 0.7 per cent of gross national product (GNP), has scarcely been complied with at all. At the moment, only an infinitesimal fraction of ODA is being allocated to the poorest countries and even less than that to the priority sectors that are most likely to trigger development. ODA must be restructured if the problem of poverty and lasting development is to be tackled. We must take the risk and have faith in a renewed Africa with a new economic management mind-set. Judging by the number of international conferences and meetings on Africa that are held each year and the feeble way they make available finance to root out the evils they deplore so much, we could be right in saying that we live in a real consumer society for intellectual products, that is. People are at last beginning to wake up to the fact that these international meetings, although they sometimes do succeed in making world public opinion aware of one or another aspect of underdevelopment, have not contributed very much at all towards eliminating the great scourge of underdevelopment itself. Not only does the way economic and financial opportunities are being distributed throughout the world provide the less developed countries with piffling amounts of resources, even worse than that is the way colossal amounts are being clawed back from them, particularly through those notorious debt-servicing costs. Total debt as a percentage of GNP stands at over 100 per cent, and debt- servicing costs are over 20 per cent and even 50 per cent in some cases. As a result, several African countries are unable to maintain the infrastructures for production or the social services that are vital to development. Traditional approaches to solving the debt problem, while they have granted some countries a few months’ breathing space, would none the less appear to have exacerbated the problem, since Africa’s debt burden has gone on growing, by about 10 per cent over the last decade. This is extremely worrying. How can we allot more financial resources to developing our human resources, involving women in development and protecting the environment if at the same time the donors are mounting pressures to have the debt paid back, operate unfavourable trade policies and cut back their assistance? My country believes that major steps absolutely must be taken if we want the low-income countries not to miss the boat for economic modernization and development. The Trinidad conclusions, which propose canceling two thirds of the eligible debt coupled with a rescheduling of the remainder over 25 years and an additional five-year grace period, offer a promising and encouraging approach to easing the debt burden. However, the Trinidad conclusions should also be applied to multilateral debt, which now accounts for one third of debt servicing costs. If our planet is to have lasting security, there must be a collective effort to combat the endogenous and exogenous factors that nowadays condemn the majority of the world’s population to absolute poverty. If this poverty persists, its consequences will ultimately spill over borders in the form of migration, terrorism, drugs and crime of all kinds. Africa’s economy is worsening to such an extent that we must break with routine thinking and devise new instruments and methods in order to understand and properly respond to the needs of a continent which is economically in anguish. Unfortunately, it is clear that technological advances, which should contribute to improving the human lot everywhere, are actually creating an increasingly greater gulf between those who have mastered that technology and those who are trying to enter into the technological age. The development of science and technology ill-suited to our needs is contributing to a reduction in the demand for commodities and is consequently further worsening the terms of trade. Given all these issues, does this Organization not have a role to play in mitigating the negative effects on the least- developed countries of the rapid globalization of production and sophisticated technological systems? This is the very foundation of the preventive diplomacy that the United Nations has advocated. The prospects for development are also threatened by the staggering pace of the degradation of the environment. The degradation of natural resources and ecosystems poses a major threat to humankind. For Africa, which still depends on natural resources for its survival, this situation involves grave consequences likely to hamper medium-term economic recovery programmes if urgent measures are not taken and the appropriate means mobilized. With national budgets already truncated, African countries will find it very difficult to face these challenges unaided in the absence of an increase in international Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 5 assistance, properly programmed and managed so as to ensure the rational development and regulation of the environment. The economic difficulties faced by most of the countries of the South have markedly diminished their ability to act together and in a coordinated manner. Domestic economic challenges, instead of promoting the mobilization of forces and resources in a regional or subregional context, often lead to a tendency by these countries to turn inward. This tendency has been compounded by structural adjustment programmes designed and executed in a strictly national context, with the aim of upgrading short-term indicators of macroeconomic and financial performance. The chances for sustainable development in the developing countries and particularly in the least-developed countries could be increased by strengthened programmes of regional and subregional integration and cooperation. In this respect, we welcome the efforts of the European Economic Community, in the framework of the Lomé IV Convention, to lay the foundation for closer economic cooperation between the five Portuguese-speaking countries of Africa, despite the fact that they are not geographically contiguous. In this context, strengthening the ties of friendship and cooperation with Portugal and Brazil will make it possible to develop a special kind of relationship between these countries, all of which use the Portuguese language. It has now been clearly acknowledged that the active participation of peoples in political, economic and social life is an essential prerequisite for releasing creative energy and enriching cultural values and people’s ability to take control of its own destiny. Mindful of this fact, Guinea-Bissau, like other countries of our continent, has opted for democracy as one of the means to mobilize its full human and physical potential in the struggle against underdevelopment. In this respect, the appropriate legal and institutional machinery has been established, with a view to promoting a political system based on consensus and the rule of the majority and on a transparent and effective public administration. The democratic process, to be credible, must mesh with the socio-cultural heritage of a region or a country. Virtually everywhere in Africa, we are witnessing the emergence of new forces for change which are in the vanguard of democracy: civilian societies, especially free- association and cooperative movements; non-governmental organizations; and civic associations. Despite some short-term obstacles, political pluralism in Guinea-Bissau is, without the shadow of a doubt, an irreversible process. One of its stages will culminate in the holding of the first multi-party elections, scheduled for 27 March 1994. To ensure the greatest possible transparency in these elections, the Government is taking all the steps necessary to prepare for them, with the support of its foreign partners. In this context, international observers will be invited to assist in the organization of the elections, and we look forward to receiving increased support from the international community at the appropriate time. Sustained support for these new forces of change is absolutely vital if we wish to bolster new democracies and explicitly affirm our commitment to the protection of human rights. The challenges facing the United Nations in terms of maintaining international peace and stability while at the same time promoting economic and social development in a rapidly changing world require that profound changes be made in its structure. These changes should take into account the interests of all the components. More than ever, international cooperation has become an opportunity to create lasting peace, to strengthen protection for the dignity of human beings everywhere, and to safeguard the rights, profound aspirations and well-being of present and future generations. For its part, Guinea-Bissau, faithful to the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter and determined to make its contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security, solemnly reaffirms its firm commitment to pursue this course. We are convinced that the task of maintaining international peace and security is a responsibility incumbent on the whole of the international community, on all countries large and small, in conformity with the principle of the sovereign equality of States. It is against this backdrop that my country has presented its candidacy as a non-permanent member of the Security Council, and we ask all Member States to support us. Guinea-Bissau is admittedly a small country, but its firm resolve to contribute to the attainment of the objectives of this Organization is widely known. Our presence at this time - in the framework of United Nations Missions - in Angola, Mozambique, Liberia, Cambodia, Haiti and in the former Yugoslavia, in both the civilian and the military spheres, is a clear illustration of this assertion. 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session I am delighted and honoured to have this opportunity once more to address this distinguished gathering. I bring with me from the Kingdom of Swaziland the greetings and good wishes of Her Majesty Indlovukazi and the whole Swazi nation to our fellow Members and friends. Before I begin my remarks, I should like, on behalf of the Kingdom of Swaziland, to express my deep condolences to the people of India, who have suffered so much in the last 24 hours. Our thoughts and prayers reach out to the families and friends of the victims of the tragic earthquake as they struggle to overcome the effects of disaster. May Almighty God protect all in the region from further suffering. Mr. President, on behalf of the Swaziland delegation, let me offer my sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Many issues of vital importance to the world will be discussed during this session, and we are entirely confident in your ability to lead us to a successful conclusion in all our deliberations. We should also like to express our deep appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, who guided the proceedings of the forty-seventh session to such great effect. We are meeting at a time when our Organization is faced with a number of concerns, whose challenge to our resources, and to our unity, is perhaps without parallel in the 48 years of our existence. We Members are fortunate that our success in meeting these challenges lies to a large extent on the shoulders of our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali, whose performance over the last two years has fully justified our confidence in him. The Kingdom of Swaziland pays a tribute to his skill, vision and leadership, as we face increasing challenges - internal as well as external - to our Organization. We are confident in his ability to act on behalf of us all, as the United Nations strives to maintain peace and security throughout this troubled world and as we continue to fulfil the hopes and wishes of our peoples, through the promotion of social and economic development in all Member States. We offer our Secretary-General the fullest support and encouragement in the difficult times ahead. Swaziland is delighted to extend the hand of friendship to our six new Members, including our own African continent’s newest nation, Eritrea. Earlier this year, we praised the United Nations-sponsored elections, which allowed Eritrea a peaceful transition to independence, and we welcomed it to the Organization of African Unity family of African nations. Now, that welcome is extended to this larger family. The admission of these new countries is further proof of the importance we place on embracing all peoples within our Organization: the principle of universality - of representing all the nations of the world - is one that has been at the very centre of the United Nation’s existence, since our establishment in 1945. All groups of people, all nations, regardless of size or history, have a contribution to make towards ensuring a safer, more prosperous world, in which we can live and work in peace and provide the promise of economic and political security for future generations. Just one month ago Swaziland celebrated an event of great importance in the history of the Kingdom. Twentyfive years ago, on 6 September 1968, we regained our independence and resumed our rightful place in the world once more, as a free, sovereign nation. To mark such an historic occasion, we hosted a large number of Heads of State and other representatives of countries from every corner of our globe for three days of celebration and rejoicing. While the event was one of great national jubilation, and an opportunity to give thanks to God for the many blessings he continues to bestow on us, it was also a chance to review the progress of the nation’s development; to examine our successes and failures; and to learn from the lessons of our first 25 years as a nation reborn. We were also able to confirm the steps we are taking to continue in our quest to bring all Swazis once more under the protection of our leadership. A committee has been established and negotiations are under way to restore the land and the people that have been lost to us over the last century. We shall be keeping this Organization fully informed of developments. Most prominent among Swaziland’s blessings have been the peace and stability we have continued to enjoy throughout these times of great change and disorder. As a nation, we confirmed how important a role our unity plays in preserving the conditions for our stability, and demonstrated what we could do to ensure that those conditions will be enjoyed by future generations. We acknowledged that two factors have contributed most to our unity: first, the emphasis we have always placed on those aspects of our national character that make us unique from others - our traditions, our customs and our culture; and, secondly, our policy of always acting in consensus, wherever possible, on issues of national importance. These traditional values which continue to guide and lead us today may seem old-fashioned and out of date in today’s world. But they have served Swaziland well and will continue to bind the Swazi nation together for many generations to come. I do not wish to give the impression that time has stood still for us in our remote corner of the African continent - far from it. Swaziland, too, has felt the winds of change which have blown throughout the world; and together, as a family, we have bent to accommodate them, for the good of the nation as a whole. One current example is the process of political reform on which we are embarked. As I mentioned a few moments ago, Swaziland is governed by the principle of rule by consensus of the people. Through the ages, our leaders have ruled with the consent of the nation, and this principle continues today. So when the effects of global political reform began to be felt in the Kingdom, all Swazis were given the opportunity to offer their individual opinions on the need for change. The result was a series of recommendations by the majority of the Kingdom to bring about a number of democratic reforms, of which the most important concerned changes in our electoral system to allow direct and accountable representation in Parliament. The decision by the people to implement the changes was announced last October, and the first stage of elections under the new system was successfully conducted a week ago. The final stage will take place in 10 days’ time. Our new-found political maturity has also resulted in the lifting of certain restrictive measures which, for various reasons, had been thought necessary in the past. Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 3 These moves, and indeed the process throughout, has been warmly welcomed and supported wholeheartedly by the international community. More importantly, it has fulfilled the wishes of the vast majority in Swaziland. Ahead of us lies the implementation of the other recommendations made by the Kingdom. We shall take these steps forward in the way we always conduct business - quietly, peacefully and with the consent of all our people. I give this outline of recent reforms in Swaziland not from any need to justify our actions to the outside world, nor indeed to gain the approval of the international community. No, I simply offer it as an example of the importance we, as a nation, place on our unity, and on the principle of meeting fresh challenges together, as a family. Swaziland’s internal policy is mirrored in our dealings with the outside world. Throughout our history, we have consistently pursued a policy of encouraging the settlement of all disputes through peaceful dialogue and negotiation. We are heartened that this principle is shared by the United Nations in its attempts to maintain global peace and security. It is a distressing fact that the challenges facing the United Nations in this regard have reached a level perhaps without equal since its establishment at the end of the last global conflict. The consequences of the breakup of the former Soviet Union, in particular, have focused world attention on continental Europe, where the situations in the former Yugoslavia and Georgia continue to give us all great cause for concern. The horrors of the war in Bosnia reinforce the belief that we need some way of limiting the effects of tension before they are allowed to expand and explode. Swaziland has fully supported the efforts of the United Nations and the European Community to bring about a negotiated settlement to the conflict; and we recognize the work of those involved in the process towards peace. Special mention must be made of the contribution of the members of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) in Bosnia, who risk their lives daily in their courageous attempts to bring relief to the suffering of so many. We urge the leaders of the three sides to find the basis for a peaceful settlement before the start of a winter which many thousands will otherwise not have a chance of surviving. Not far away, in Georgia, we have witnessed with concern the unfolding of another tragedy whose consequences may well be felt for some time to come. Swaziland urges those involved, with the support from those having influence in the area, to learn from the suffering of Bosnia and to find a peaceful, negotiated settlement to the dispute that has ruined the stability of a nation which so recently rejoiced in its new-found independence. The last two weeks have seen the internal political struggle in Russia reach a critical point, constituting a very serious threat to the stability of that great country. Most countries in the world have learned from bitter experience that there is no easy path to reform, no certain blueprint, no overnight success. As a country with enormous strategic and historical importance, Russia has held our attention throughout its often painful transition, and our thoughts are with its people during this latest internal crisis. Swaziland joins the rest of the international community in supporting a peaceful resolution to the constitutional struggle on whose outcome the peace of the entire region may depend. Cyprus continues to give cause for concern to my delegation, fully 19 years after the short but destructive conflict that brought division to that unhappy island. Swaziland shares with Cyprus membership in the British Commonwealth of Nations, and we support the untiring efforts of our Secretary-General to promote dialogue between Greeks and Turks so that a lasting settlement, acceptable to all, may be found. Closer to home, for many of our brotherly African countries conflict and internal strife continue to be the major obstacles in the way of the development of the continent as a whole. Of particular distress to us in southern Africa is the appalling disaster which has overtaken our brothers in Angola, where more tragedies occur each day than anywhere else in the world. If any country has suffered enough it is surely Angola. No reason can possibly justify the scale of the disaster suffered by so many. We therefore support the measures taken by the United Nations to bring about an end to the conflict, and we appeal to those responsible for the continuation of the suffering to allow sense and reason to prevail. The elections last September were judged free and fair by organizations of which we are a member and whose views we respect. We appeal to both 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session sides to come together in a spirit of understanding and compromise to achieve a lasting peace for the whole country. The efforts of our United Nations Special Envoy in this difficult and dangerous assignment deserve our fullest support. On the other side of our continent, we continue with grave concern to look on the situation in Somalia, where, despite the efforts of the large United Nations force and a large measure of success at the start of the operation, a formula for lasting peace still cannot be found. Swaziland gives due praise to the members of the peace-keeping force as they attempt to maintain the conditions in which food and medical relief can reach those most in need. Clearly, the support of the international community will be necessary for the foreseeable future - despite the enormous drain this will mean on our limited resources - as efforts are made to help establish suitable political conditions in the country to encourage sustainable development. Despite these setbacks to global peace, the last 12 months have seen considerable successes recorded in other areas, many of which owe much to the efforts of the United Nations. In this Hall on Monday, President Clinton spoke of the determination of his Administration to continue with the policy of encouraging an end, once and for all, to the spread of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. Swaziland supports any measure to limit the ability of all countries to make political use of weapons of mass destruction, and we call on all the nuclear Powers to give the initiative the support it deserves. Of perhaps greatest immediate significance in the area of global peace, however, was the recent signing of the peace accord between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. Swaziland joins the rest of the world in welcoming with enormous relief this sign of real progress towards peace in the Middle East. We acknowledge those who have contributed to this first, vital step towards a settlement of the crisis which has afflicted the region for so long. In particular, the determination of the two leaders, Prime Minister Rabin and Chairman Arafat, to bring about the conditions for a settlement deserves the praise of us all. Meanwhile, along with the rest of the world, we recognize that many challenges lie ahead in the process of reconciliation and peaceful resettlement. Above all, there must be a firm commitment to the process from all nations in the region. The responsibility for a successful future lies as much with the neighbouring countries as it does with Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. Swaziland therefore welcomes the immediate favourable response to the treaty from many in the region, and we offer our wholehearted support to the process begun with that historic handshake. Our hopes and prayers for lasting peace are with the people of the Middle East. The successful conclusion of another long-running conflict owes much to the efforts of the United Nations and is worth highlighting. The free and fair elections in Cambodia have, hopefully, brought an end to many years of suffering by the Cambodian people and fully justified the support we, as Member States, gave to the process. Challenges to peace in that country remain, however, and, while welcoming the moves to unite the people behind a newly established monarchy, Swaziland is concerned that any remaining differences be resolved through negotiation, and not by the means that, in the past, gave rise to such hatred and division among the Cambodian people. Africa, too, has experienced encouraging developments over the past 12 months. Of particular relevance to Swaziland have been the ongoing peace processes in the neighbouring countries of Mozambique and South Africa. Later this month we shall formally begin the process of returning the tens of thousands of Mozambican refugees to their homeland. Swaziland has hosted these unfortunate victims of civil war for many years, with the assistance of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. We praise all those who have contributed to the peace effort. Above all, we recognize the willingness of both sides to bring an end to the suffering of so many fellow-countrymen. We therefore acknowledge the commitment to peace of President Chissano and Mr. Dhlakama, who have given an example to the leaders of other countries experiencing internal struggles. We pray that the peace process will be allowed to run its course, with the assistance of the United Nations force that is stationed in the country. Swaziland stands ready to help Mozambique to regain its significance in the region. The situation in South Africa - our other neighbour - too gives some reason for long-term hope of a peaceful transition to majority rule and the birth of a new South Africa. This view has been strengthened by the speeches that President De Klerk and Mr. Mandela made in the United States last week. The negotiation process has proceeded in accordance with a tight timetable, and important successes have been recorded. I refer, for example, to the recent agreement concerning conditions for the establishment of the Transitional Executive Council. Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 5 The setting of a date for elections - April 1994 - is of particular importance as it provides a focus for the black community, which has been denied the vote for so long. However, major obstacles remain if next year’s election date is to be met. Prominent among these is the distressing continued violence in many sections of South African society. This has resulted in widespread loss of confidence in the peace process. We appeal to the leaders of all parties in South Africa to impose the maximum restraint on those who threaten the real progress that has been made so far. We pray that reason will prevail and that the existing forum for peaceful negotiation will be used for the resolution of any differences. A matter of equal concern, and with the potential to give rise to greater problems in the long term, is the absence from the negotiations of representatives of large sections of the country. Empty chairs at the negotiating table will result in an incomplete solution to the problem of creating a new South Africa. All South Africans must be represented at the talks, so that each may feel that he is a part of the solution. Conditions must be found to give all in South Africa, regardless of race or belief, a voice in the transition process. In the meantime, in accordance with the wishes of the majority of South Africans, Swaziland supports the call for the lifting of the remaining economic and trade sanctions against South Africa, to enable the country to begin the long and difficult process of resolving the many development challenges it faces. Swaziland looks forward to welcoming a new South Africa as a major force in the development of the region. Further north in our continent, the recent signing of the peace accord in Liberia will, we hope, bring to an end a long and painful chapter in the history of that unhappy country. Swaziland endorses the offer of the United Nations earlier this year to assist in the electoral process. We appeal to all Liberian leaders to respect the peace process and to put their faith in the electoral system, so that the country may begin the task of rebuilding in an atmosphere of national unity and conciliation. As we examine the extent of United Nations involvement in peace-keeping operations around the world, it is clear that we face major questions about our ability to cope with future conflict situations. While Swaziland salutes the courage and dedication of the 80,000 men and women of the various United Nations forces on assignment in 17 separate operations throughout the world, we support the call of other Members for a full examination of the way in which our peace-keeping operations are managed, with a view to securing the maximum benefit from our limited resources. We are approaching our fiftieth anniversary, and this is a suitable moment to review our past performance in this area and to draw on our collective experience so that in future peace-keeping roles we may make the most efficient use of our resources. Swaziland therefore welcomes the call, in the Secretary-General’s report 'An Agenda for Peace', for discussion of these vital issues during the current session. At the beginning of my address I expressed the Swazi delegation’s welcome for the accession of six new Members as an indication of the Organization’s respect for the principle of universality. We confirmed that it is a basic human right of all peoples to be represented at the United Nations so that the widest possible range of opinions and experience may be pooled, and the benefits of the Organization shared by all countries. The President returned to the Chair. Yet the Kingdom of Swaziland has enjoyed a long and happy relationship with 21 million people who believe that they have had no representation here since 1971: I refer to the people of the Republic of China. For the past 25 years the Republic of China has shown itself to be a true friend of Swaziland. We have benefited from the experience of development which has lifted the Republic of China to a position high on the list of industrialized nations. The rest of the world has been excluded from that experience and from the positive contribution that we feel the Republic of China can make to the international community. It is a contribution that the Government and the people of that nation have demonstrated their will and desire to make. And 21 million people feel that they are denied the right of representation here in the United Nations by men and women of their own choice. In the interest of equity and justice, their collective voice deserves to be heard. Swaziland therefore supports the call from other Member States for the establishment of an ad hoc committee to look into the issue of the Republic of China’s re-entry into the United Nations. Following from the issue of basic human rights among nations, Swaziland attached great importance to our attendance at the Conference in Vienna last June. We made 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session clear the priority we attach to the promotion and protection of human rights in our own country and the important role we believe that plays in the maintenance of peace and stability throughout the world. The principle of equality among nations is one that has guided our foreign policy since independence, and we join other Member States in welcoming the Conference’s Declaration and Programme of Action. We look forward to the discussion here in the General Assembly of proposals agreed at the Conference, and we stand ready to implement them where necessary. For many years after independence the Kingdom of Swaziland enjoyed a period of steady growth and reasonable prosperity, despite the difficulties experienced by other developing nations in our region. The world-wide economic recession and the drought years of 1991 and 1992 meant an end to the expansion of our economy, and the Kingdom braced itself for some tough times ahead. As a developing country we are heavily reliant on the economies of nations that are more industrialized than ours, and the failure of the projected world-wide recovery in 1993 has added to our despair. We have recognized that there are internal measures we must take ourselves, and we are active in attempting to strengthen our industrial and agricultural base; but we remain dependent on outside support to finance programmes to help achieve our objectives. The Kingdom has begun a programme of action for our own economic development, based on the principle of national consensus that was so successful in our political reforms. The United Nations continues to support us in the planning and coordination of our efforts, and we will need that support for some time to come if we are to experience the growth we need for the economic security of future generations. One area in which we have been concentrating much effort is the expansion of our export markets and our trade relations with other countries. We have therefore been following anxiously the prolonged process of concluding the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) talks. We have a saying in Africa: 'When the elephants fight, the ants get squashed.' For our small, developing nation, much depends on the successful outcome of the talks. We are, in particular, looking forward to an international trade package which will take full account of the needs of the developing nations and will make allowances for current trade agreements between us and the first world. Another deadline is just two months away. We appeal to the world’s major economic Powers to consider the long-term fate of our people and not to be seduced by the short-term political advantage to be gained from indecision and delay. Although we will be heavily reliant on the outcome of the GATT talks, Swaziland and the other countries in the Southern and Eastern African regions have followed the example of other major trading blocs around the world and formed our own regional common markets. The Southern African Development Community (SADC), of which Swaziland is currently Vice-Chairman, and the Preferential Trade Area (PTA) for Eastern and Southern African States are models of inter-nation cooperation. Our objective is the improvement of all our peoples through closer economic and trade cooperation and development between member States. Through our membership in these trade organizations, we are trying to open up more regional markets to complement those we have established overseas. Our long-term target is to achieve a measure of regional self-reliance, and it is one that deserves the support of the developed world. SADC, the PTA and other arrangements like them will succeed as long as we can count on the support and commitment of organizations such as the United Nations. I commend them to this Assembly. Swaziland fully agrees with the United Nations in attaching importance to the concept of sustainable development among Member nations, and we welcome your call, Mr. President, for an agenda for development to have priority focus in this session. In this regard, we intend to take a full and active part in next year’s conference on population and development, and the Heads of State summit on social issues in 1995. The concept of a holistic approach to development - taking into account issues such as the environment, human settlement, population management, productive employment and the easing of poverty - is one that forms the basis of our own nation’s policies. We are working hard to ensure that our development is sustainable for the benefit of future generations of Swazis - just as our forefathers made sacrifices to ensure a secure and prosperous heritage for us. We therefore welcome any initiative that places population concerns at the centre of all social, economic, political and environmental activities and we look forward to a worthwhile output from Cairo next year and from the social Summit in 1995. Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 7 It has been an eventful and exciting year. The first steps have been taken towards the resolution of many long-standing problems, but many challenges remain. The need for internal adjustments in the administration of the Organization has been clearly identified and we look forward to monitoring more effective operations as a result of the initiatives taken by the Secretary-General. Despite these, the United Nations can be proud of its record over the past twelve months and the Kingdom of Swaziland salutes all those who have contributed to the many substantial achievements we have recorded. I should like to give my personal assurance that Swaziland will demonstrate its confidence in the Organization by paying its dues on time and with great willingness in the firm expectation that they will be put to the best possible use. We urge all other Member States to take the same attitude so that the Organization might have the funds available to undertake the programmes of assistance that are so desperately needed throughout the world. In conclusion I should like to take this opportunity, on behalf of Her Majesty, the Indlovukazi, and the whole Swazi nation, to express my deep gratitude to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and all its sister agencies, for the many programmes of assistance undertaken in Swaziland since its independence. We believe that the United Nations remains the only truly global forum for confronting the challenges facing the world today, and the only body with the resources and the commitment to implement the solutions. The world would indeed be a more troubled place without the combined efforts of all of us here. We take pride in reaffirming our commitment to the principles and ideals contained in our founding Charter. More than 12 months ago, addressing the Assembly, which since then has seen a steady increase in its membership, with the admission of new Members that I welcome today with great pleasure, I expressed my personal satisfaction and that of the people of the Republic of San Marino over the momentous changes that have marked these past hectic years. Today, however, we face the pressing and serious problem of managing those changes. It is of fundamental importance to those peoples who have seen the laying of the foundations of the edifice called 'Democracy' that this process continue and be shored up by solid institutions. The strengthening of those institutions must be accomplished to guarantee the solidity of that essential edifice, which may be altered or changed in some of its parts, but which cannot be deprived of its foundations. Today more than ever, the importance of democratic institutions must be acknowledged, upheld and stressed. Now more than ever, peoples need to be assured that struggles for power, those between factions and those caused by ethnic, economic and political interests, will be averted for ever so that real peace may be made, restored and maintained. My country is convinced that a renewed commitment of the United Nations is necessary for the attainment of this aim, in virtue of the role it plays as a universal factor that has become a real point of reference for the entire world. Not even the most advanced democratic society can fully meet the needs arising out of the exercise of freedom. In my opinion, however, any form of political regime other than democracy would deprive man of his freedom to an even greater degree. Democracy, even in its initial and most incomplete forms, is organized in such a way that individuals may take part, directly or indirectly, in the exercise of power. Further development of the existing democratic régime is a precise commitment that my country has undertaken in an attempt to find a solution to one of the consequences of the past emigration of its citizens. I am referring to the efforts we are making to facilitate the exercise of their right and duty to participate in political life through their votes. In our attempts to solve this problem the relevant international instruments of the United Nations will be a precise point of reference and an irreplaceable guide. I am following with particular interest the discussion under way on the possibility of reforming the institutional mechanisms of the Organization. It is undoubtedly wise to adapt institutions to present circumstances, so that they will respond effectively to the new challenges. San Marino supports those reforms, prompted by the conviction that wider participation leads to more effective and shared interventions. That is why with my country is following with special attention the application submitted by Sweden, in its capacity as Chairman-in-Office of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), for the CSCE’s admission to the United Nations with Observer States. That application enjoys the full support of all participating States, and I wish to express here the desire of my country to see it accepted. 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The CSCE continues to play a leading role in Europe in favour of peace and the safeguarding of human rights. Closer cooperation with the United Nations has now become indispensable, and it will surely produce positive results. The initial task of the United Nations was to lay down the fundamental principles for the protection of human dignity and for a peaceful, democratic and civil coexistence. It then undertook a wider-ranging task, in light of the evolution of rights and of those systems established for their safeguard. Now the Organization must intensify its intervention straightforwardly and incisively in order to resolve critical situations. The policy of pursuing the peaceful solution, resorting to negotiations, mediation and political diplomatic initiatives, is unquestionably the right course. That is the path to follow in our times; it is policy of a democratic society in which reason must always prevail. Recourse to force, even when it seems indispensable to maintain or restore democracy, is always an unfair and dangerous option, since it takes a heavy toll of lives and creates grounds for revenge that are risky and difficult to dispel and may always trigger civil wars. I truly hope we will not have to say one day that the magic moment when our dreams seemed to have become reality has passed us by. We must persist in averting the dangerous strategy of nuclear deterrence. If we manage to create a world with collective security as its prevailing feature, there will no longer be grounds for conflicts. Peace, however, does not depend exclusively on the possession of weapons and on the thirst for supremacy. Today, more than ever, peace depends on solidarity, on respect for rights and on our efforts in favour of tolerance. Europe is plagued by conflicts that offend peoples, minorities, women, children and the poor. Every continent is afflicted by wars and deep crises, which have become so endemic as to arouse the suspicion that they have been accepted as the norm. Some of the conflicts have become so acute that even humane acts, solidarity and the most indispensable interventions against hunger and cold seem now to have faded into the background. Exhausting and sincere mediation initiatives fail; crisis- management becomes impossible; the solution of conflicts seems unattainable, despite the growing number of political, diplomatic and military missions, and even relief missions are hindered in the performance of their work. San Marino believes that the United Nations has the ability, the authority and the structures to formulate a dynamic and effective plan able to prevent and solve conflicts, manage crises and maintain peace. The authority and the means of the Organization may sometimes not involve military choices. In any case, such interventions can be justified only when all possibilities of a peaceful solution have been considered and it is borne in mind that resort to this option must not cause victims. Crises and conflicts may be averted by eliminating their root causes. When riches are not fairly distributed; when all citizens do not enjoy the same rights and duties; when rights and freedoms are not respected; when it is forgotten that minorities are composed of individuals; when a distinction is made between the dignity of man and that of woman; when injustice exists; when man and his rights do not prevail over the organization of the State and its military apparatus; then conflicts inevitably arise. The key principle of the United Nations, which has always fascinated the people of the Republic of San Marino and has now become our trusted point of reference, is that of the indissoluble bond between personal freedom and the liberty of all peoples. That freedom must be based on a complex system of limits so that no man, in the exercise of his rights, can ride roughshod over the rights of another. In that spirit the Republic of San Marino recently welcomed with sincere satisfaction the agreement of mutual recognition signed by the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). That agreement, concerning an area that has been theatre of war for a very long time, was reached through peaceful negotiations and political mediation in which both sides gave up something to facilitate the peace process. This major event is an important point of reference, a proof of the existing good will and wish for certainty, confirming that this is the only possible way to resolve conflicts. My country is convinced that many challenges have yet to be met and still await effective solutions. We have to exert our best endeavours to defend the poor from underdevelopment, to sustain and contribute to their progress by restoring to them, when the situation so requires, the environment of which they have been deprived as a consequence of ecological degradation. Every man is a guardian of the world and is entitled to ask that it be used correctly. Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 15 We must express solidarity in the forms that such a humanitarian and understanding attitude requires, respecting the dignity of peoples and their freedom to make their own choices and determine their own destinies. We must play a fundamental role in educating future generations on mutual understanding, respect and tolerance. This is the challenge facing the entire world and Europe in particular. Together we will have to overcome the consequences of intolerance to which we have given the names of racism, 'ethnic cleansing', mass migrations, refuge and asylum. The people of San Marino are following with particular concern all issues related to minorities, their inalienable right to free existence and well-balanced development, respect for their cultures and religions, and the real exercise of these rights under the same conditions enjoyed by the majorities. The reason for this special interest is probably to be found in the numerically small population of my country, which history has always taught to offer hospitality and express solidarity with the weak, the oppressed and the victims of persecution. Today this problem has reached proportions that might become alarming. Nobody knows how many people may be forced in the future to leave their native countries in order to survive, whether in flight from underdevelopment and hunger or prompted by the desire for freedom. Thus, the problem has two faces. The first is the fact that no one should be forced to leave his home and country; the second is the fact that all people, to the extent their circumstances permit, must be willing to offer hospitality in a spirit of solidarity and brotherhood. Having referred to this problem, I cannot fail to mention the situation affecting the former Yugoslavia, the coast of which can be seen, when the air is clear, from the mountain on which the Republic of San Marino is situated. Who knows the destiny of that poor people or when this unacceptable war will finally end? I appeal to the General Assembly, to all States of the world and to the United Nations that we put a halt to the catastrophe. Let us reiterate and strengthen within our own nations a sense of tolerance undertaken as a duty and not as a right. Allow me to congratulate Mr. Insanally on his election as President of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly and to wish him much success in heading this august body. It is a great honour to speak in this historic Hall, in which, as nowhere else, all the victories and concerns of the world, all its problems and opportunities, are concentrated. The voice of Lithuania, which had been muffled for half a century, can now be heard loud and clear throughout the world. Lithuania, with a long tradition of statehood dating back to the thirteenth century, regained its independence through the determination of our people, certain fundamental changes in the world and international support. Our State is consolidating democracy. It respects human and minority rights, and strives to ensure social progress and an improved standard of living founded on free market principles. By participating in the activities of the United Nations and other international organizations, we hope to contribute to a better world. We have an opportunity to voice our concerns and to obtain support not only at the United Nations, but also at the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), the Council of Europe, the North Atlantic Cooperation Council and other international organizations. In establishing friendly relations with other countries, Lithuania has felt the supportive and increasing influence of international organizations in the process of democratization and in the creation of a free market economy. We trust that the following international Conferences sponsored by the United Nations - the International Conference on Population and Development, the World Summit for Social Development and the Fourth World Conference on Women - will help us find lasting solutions to these concerns. Since parliamentary elections held last autumn the Government in Lithuania has changed. Our chosen course in foreign policy, however, in the tradition of democratic States, has not altered. Our foreign policy priorities remain close cooperation with the other Baltic States of Latvia and Estonia, as well as with the countries of northern Europe, and full integration into Europe’s political, economic, security and cultural sphere. Lithuania is seeking in particular friendly and mutually beneficial relations with neighbouring Russia, Poland and Belarus. Lithuania supports President Boris Yeltsin’s efforts to stabilize the political situation in his country and to maintain the course of reform. We are essentially in full agreement with the position of other democratic States regarding recent events in Russia. Like its other neighbours, Lithuania is seeking its place on the new map of Europe, and we hope for closer cooperation between the countries of the Baltic Sea region. An important aspect of such cooperation, and of Lithuania’s relations with Russia, is our relationship with the Kaliningrad region. The gradual demilitarization of that region, the development of a free trade zone there and the increased influence that international organizations, especially the European Community, have on its future are in Lithuania’s best interest and, we believe, in the interests of other States in the area. In the long term, the shores of the Baltic Sea should be free of armaments. Measures should be taken now to increase trust and security. Our chosen path - a gradual coming together of the nations and States of the Baltic region and good relations between neighbours - should lead us to the European Community and contribute to the consolidation of security on the old continent. 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The shortest road from Paris, Berlin and Warsaw to Moscow and St. Petersburg leads through Lithuania. For many centuries, however, the vehicles of war of attacking or retreating armies rolled across these crossroads, bringing with them many misfortunes and tragedies. Today, however, we hope that convoys of goods will roll across our territory. We believe, and are working to ensure, that our complex geopolitical situation in a new Europe - a Europe no longer torn apart by antagonistic ideologies - should become a source of new opportunities, benefits and prosperity. We are inspired by the example of countries such as Denmark, Switzerland, Austria and others, which have successfully taken advantage of similar situations and the opportunities offered by a more unified Europe. Having restored its independence, Lithuania has once again become a participant in the processes of a more unified Europe. Lithuania is receptive to cooperation with the West and the East, and sees future opportunities in such cooperation. Despite the great distances that separate us, relations with the United States have been, and will continue to be, especially significant for Lithuania. We are grateful to the United States for resolutely adhering to the policy of non-recognition of the illegal incorporation of Lithuania into the Soviet Union. A sizeable emigré community, which found refuge in the new world, links our two countries. We value close United States cooperation with Europe, including that with the structures of the CSCE and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and we sincerely wish every success for efforts to stabilize the situation in a changing world and to encourage the progress of post-Communist countries toward democracy and a free market. We turn to the United Nations, asking it to safeguard the interests of small States. The future of a more integrated world lies in democracy and in the individuality of free nations. The international community should be prepared to defend, with force if necessary, the sovereignty of small - even the smallest - nations. During his recent visit to Lithuania, Pope John Paul II stressed that 'the interests of large States should never force small States to become satellites of a foreign Power'. In spite of the conflicts that now plague the world, it is fortunate that some good news also reaches this house in New York. We welcome the peace processes in the Middle East and the positive trends in South Africa, Cambodia, Haiti and El Salvador. On 31 August, in compliance with General Assembly resolution 47/21 of 1992, the last remaining units of the Russian army were withdrawn from Lithuania. I should like to take this opportunity to thank representatives from all the countries, large and small, that supported our legitimate goal. I should also like to sincerely thank the United Nations and Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who monitored the fulfilment of the obligation to withdraw that army, and who, during the most critical moments, sent his envoy, Ambassador Tommy Koh, to Vilnius, and Mr. Stoyan Ganev, President of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, who visited Lithuania and the other Baltic States in July to discuss the army’s withdrawal. We were glad when, having made it just in time for the ceremony marking the departure of the last Russian troops, Ambassador Koh said: 'My work in Lithuania is done, although some work is waiting for me in the other Baltic States.' When a large State withdraws its army from a small one without issuing any ultimatums or setting conditions, this signals a new era for the world in which, thanks to international efforts in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Charter, even the most sensitive problems can be solved peacefully. Despite several disagreements that arose at the last minute, calm and balanced diplomacy allowed Lithuania and Russia to reach agreement on this fundamental question. On more than one occasion I had the pleasure of speaking openly and sincerely with President Boris Yeltsin of the Russian Federation. A fresh page is being turned in the relations between our two countries. Of course, the issue of compensation for damage inflicted during the years of occupation is still on the agenda for negotiations between Lithuania and Russia. The Russian army still remains in Estonia and Latvia. We believe that with the help of the United Nations this international problem will be resolved successfully and, at the same time, the stability of the region will be bolstered. Until people become fully aware of the possibilities that democracy and freedom provide these ideas will remain just that - ideas. After an initial wave of euphoria, disillusion may follow. One can already notice this in some post- communist countries. This causes me, as President of Lithuania, great concern. I do not think that the world community can afford to remain indifferent to this problem. Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 15 A democratic and civic State, based on the rule of law, in which people are not segregated according to their nationality or religious and political beliefs, is being established in Lithuania. There is no tension in our country between Lithuanians and ethnic minorities. We are reforming and stabilizing the Lithuanian economy; we are searching for ways to provide at least minimal social welfare guarantees; as much as possible we are trying to clear the way for private initiative. We cannot, however, change our economy overnight. The Lithuanian people are patient and industrious, working hard for their well-being and future. However, disillusion with democracy and the free market would be disastrous. Therefore I wish to speak very frankly to this body: even though we feel the concern and support of the world community, that is not enough. It appears that even the most authoritative international organizations lack the coordinated action and initiative for truly effective assistance. We occasionally feel isolationist tendencies on the part of the most industrialized nations; having attained a high standard of living, they attempt to dissociate themselves from the countries of Eastern and Central Europe. This greatly complicates the future of these countries as they attempt to solve by themselves the difficult economic, political, psychological, cultural and historical problems that they have inherited from the recent past. In most post-communist countries there still prevails a nostalgia for the past, when authoritarian government guaranteed people their minimum needs, albeit at the expense of their freedom. Without timely and joint efforts, this nostalgia for a pseudo-socialistic past could cause the development of certain countries to follow a course that would be unacceptable to all of us. For several years now, both in Europe and North America, the idea of a new 'Marshall Plan' has been in the air, but it has in no way materialized. Yet investments in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe - and I have in mind not only financial investments - would really be investments in all of our futures. Greater and more effective assistance for the democratic forces in post-communist States would help decisively to rid the world of the remnants of totalitarianism and dictatorship that have so tormented mankind in the twentieth century. With the dissolution of two hostile blocs, the world has become a safer place. However, that does not solve all the security problems that mankind now faces. Indeed, the number of such problems has increased. There is now a greater possibility of localized conflicts: they have flared up in precisely those places where dictatorships that suppressed nations have fallen. Such horrendous practices as 'ethnic cleansing' must be severely condemned. The model of an absolutely closed nation-State is no longer a viable one for the solution of separate national problems. The Lithuanian people respect the struggle of nations for their freedom, but they condemn atrocities which occur under the guise of a noble cause. The tragedy of what was formerly Yugoslavia is truly horrible. We approve of the means that the United Nations uses to uphold peace and security, but too often resolution of the structure of a State and border issues are left to warring countries to decide by force of arms. In the future the United Nations should pursue even more actively preventive diplomacy to stop conflicts before they erupt. Every illegal and violent act requires a response, not appeasement. The Secretary-General’s 'An Agenda for Peace' is a welcome plan that provides a solid foundation. What should the new role of the United Nations be in an ever-changing world? As I see it, in future the Organization must not only be a guarantor of security, but also an instigator of economic development and a global defender of human and ethnic minority rights. At the Vienna Conference on Human Rights, we spoke out in favour of establishing the post of high commissioner for human rights. At this time, ideas about the sovereignty of States, the self-determination of nations, national security and the maintenance and enforcement of peace are changing rapidly. The individual problems of individual States are becoming global in scope, especially in the areas of environmental protection, refugees, narcotics and organized crime. For precisely that reason, cooperation among neighbouring States is growing in importance. Regional interaction is broadening and the role of international organizations is being extended. We approve of regional structures and arrangements that help to guarantee peace and stability in their respective regions. However, their activities should be linked with United Nations supervision, so that large and powerful nations do not transform such regional structures into instruments of domination. I am referring to failed States. They need international assistance that would not force upon them the protectorate of another State or provide conditions for assimilating them into some sort of sphere of influence, but would respect and protect their sovereignty and independence. Small countries have a right to rely on a firm guarantee of security. The United Nations could and should become that guarantee. In the long-term future, as democracy and cooperation become firmly established 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session throughout our planet, the United Nations would perhaps assume certain functions of a world government. I reiterate my support for Lithuania’s proposal, which was outlined here at the United Nations exactly one year ago, that new permanent members could be added to the Security Council. For the United Nations to achieve its objective, it is important to continue and even expand the system reforms that are now being put into effect to increase cost-efficiency. We welcome the initiatives by several countries, among them the United States, to establish more dependable internal and external inspection machinery. The suggested creation of an office of inspector-general could help to assure Member States that the mandates that we have provided for various programmes are put to the most effective use possible. I should like to state clearly that the current financial crisis of the United Nations is of great concern to Lithuania. We are not indifferent to it. Lithuania is firmly resolved to fulfil its obligations to the Organization and it has demonstrated its readiness to do so. Lithuania could support the activities of the Organization even more strongly if for three years now we had not been forced repeatedly to discuss the difficult problem of assessments with regard to the United Nations budget. Our delegation, along with other countries that have found themselves in a similar situation, has on more than one occasion suggested ways in which this problem could be solved. I wish to emphasize that the position of Lithuania remains unchanged. The scale of assessments must be determined on the basis of statistical data provided by each State, in accordance with its capacity to pay and, most important, abiding by the principle that the same methodology for calculating assessments must be applied to all States equally. In seeking to ensure these principles and finally to resolve this problem, we are prepared to exchange ideas with, and we hope for the cooperation of, all delegations. I reiterate my support for Lithuania’s proposal, made here at the United Nations exactly a year ago, that new permanent members could be added to the Security Council. Lithuania not only supports peace-keeping efforts, but would like eventually to become a contributor to military and civilian operations. When Lithuania became a member of the Council of Europe I suggested a meeting of all the Heads of State of post-communist countries. This would not be an attempt to create some sort of new bloc or to console each other about our economic hardships. Such a conference, under the auspices of the Council of Europe or perhaps some other organization, could provide an opportunity to discuss in a down-to-earth way how to recover more quickly from the maladies of national egoism and ethnocentricity that may be unavoidable in young States and fragile democracies. All of us in post-communist countries should, as quickly as possible, learn how to cooperate among ourselves and with the rest of the world and strive to be better full-fledged members of our planet’s democratic community. Other countries have learned the art of cooperation over decades. We have not had that much time. It is very important that we succeed through a joint effort in making this period as brief as possible. We welcome the initiative by some Members of the United Nations to establish a forum for new and restored democracies. It is our sincere hope that this movement, begun in the Philippines, will help bring developing countries and countries in transition closer together, so that they may reach common approaches down the path to democracy and a free market. The spirit of the approaching twenty-first century already fills this Hall. At the turn of the third millennium mankind is faced with critical global problems that threaten its very existence: ecological, social and spiritual problems and the nuclear threat, which has not yet been abolished. National and regional problems seem to pale in comparison, but I do not think that that is really the case. Every step towards progress, even if taken in a small country or with regard to improved relations between two States, diminishes the possibility of global conflict, and vice versa. I should therefore like to believe that the withdrawal of the Russian military from Lithuania was an achievement for more than just two countries. The entire world became somewhat better, somewhat more just, and the threat that hung over it was abated. I think that there will be more and more such successes. The United Nations system contributes, and will continue to contribute, significantly to their attainment. Mr. President, may I first of all congratulate you on your election, and on the dignified and effective way in which you are already presiding over this Assembly. You have a burdensome job and we wish you all good fortune as you discharge it. I have sometimes heard speakers from this rostrum patrol the world in their speeches in the general debate, dealing at length with one continent after another. Indeed, I have done so myself in past years. There is much to describe: events in the Middle East and South Africa are particularly encouraging, and developments in Russia, as we have just heard from Mr. Kozirev, are particularly important. But today it seems to me that in the time available, the focus of interest should not only be on distant events or distant tragedies, but here, in this building, on this institution. Never has there been a time when the United Nations has been so discussed, so misunderstood, so needed. The international task of this decade is managing disorder. I believe it is possible. But it demands cool heads, low voices, and an understanding of what we can and cannot do. It demands concertation between all countries that take on part of the responsibility for steering the world through channels which are certainly strewn with rocks. This concertation takes place in many forums, but nowhere with greater legal and political authority than here at the United Nations. We can now see the events of 1989 in their true perspective. They did not usher in a new world order. I think we have to be sober about this. What happened in 1989 was not the birth of a new world order, it was the collapse of one super-Power and the end of communism as a threat to world peace. The tragedies of the world have continued. Indeed, they have probably increased since 1989. 'Tragedy' is a better description than the usual, and overworked, term 'crisis', because 'crisis' implies a threat to world peace. Now that the cold war is over and super-Powers no longer exert themselves on behalf of clients, it is no longer a crisis in that sense - a threat to world peace - if Sudan, Bosnia, Angola, Liberia, Georgia, Afghanistan, Rwanda, Somalia, Tajikistan, Azerbaijan and others are racked by civil war. But these are appalling tragedies for those who are killed or driven from their homes, and indeed for all of us, because we are all diminished when the bell tolls. 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Some of these tragedies are illuminated by the haphazard light of television. In those cases, millions of our citizens, in all our countries, share feelings of sympathy, indignation and horror. But other tragedies equally foul are played in a darkened theatre: no television, no audience, little pressure. But all these tragedies are a reproach to those of us who are convinced that it is possible slowly and painstakingly to construct a more decent world. How do we do that? Not, it is clear, by the remaining super-Power using its superiority to impose its own solutions by force. In the 10 tragedies that I listed, the United States has intervened with troops only in one, Somalia - and that now on a reduced scale and under the United Nations - because the United States, quite rightly in my view, is not prepared to send its troops all over the world, as Rome once sent its legions all over Europe, to fight, to pacify and to rule. There are British, French, Spanish and other European troops in Bosnia today under the command of the United Nations. But their role is to save Bosnian lives - they do that daily - implementing United Nations decisions. Likewise, they are not imposing a European imperium on that country. If America and its allies are not to exert themselves as a joint imperial Power, imposing on other countries and sustaining laws and rulers of their choice, then the answer can only lie in reforming and making much better use of the international institutions to which we belong. They were mostly built after the Second World War for one purpose and are now, after the end of the cold war, being hurriedly adapted for another. The British architect Norman Foster has just been given the responsibility of designing in Berlin the new parliament house for a united Germany. If his plans are accepted, he intends to include the old Reichstag building alongside the line of the Berlin Wall in a splendid new structure reaching across the old Wall into East Berlin. There is a parable here for us as well as for Germany. Inevitably, we have to cope as best we can with what we have. A man, after all, may take some shelter in an unfinished building. I do not believe that an international organization like ours, which is not a colonizing Power, will ever be able to guarantee solutions to civil wars or even to that pernicious variant of a civil war which we see today in Bosnia. But if there are no guarantees of success, the United Nations can be helped greatly to improve on its record. With greater experience, greater resources for preventive action and effectively coordinated humanitarian efforts, it can act before the situation gets out of control and the demand grows for the implementation of sanctions and for peace enforcement. I hope that within the next few weeks the European Community will move into a new phase of working together on a common foreign and security policy once the Treaty of Maastricht is ratified by all 12 member States. Our President, Willy Claes, the Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister of Belgium, has just illustrated that point. But one of our main aims as European partners must be to support and strengthen the role and the work of the United Nations, for the United Nations is not 'them'; it is us, all of us. We have to take responsibility for it and its failures. If we want the United Nations to work better, it is up to us to give the Secretary-General the support he needs in thoughts, words, deeds and money. I suppose there are few more lonely or more demanding jobs than that of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, and the present Secretary-General certainly has the misfortune to hold his office in interesting times. He has already given and continues to give a firm and effective lead. He needs and deserves our support. The United Nations is unique. It alone conveys the word of the international community. Only the United Nations has the legal powers to translate those words into action for the maintenance of world peace. We need, as President Clinton said yesterday, to look at tasks closely, to ensure that they are properly defined and that the resources are there to meet them. We may on occasion have to accept that a mandate should not be given because in reality it cannot be fulfilled. Let me follow that by looking briefly at the way we carry out peace-keeping operations, the way we deploy preventive diplomacy and the way we run our finances. Peace-keeping: United Nations blue-helmets are deployed on nearly every continent. We can reel off the statistics, but actually we hear too little of individual soldiers and small detachments. Who knows, for example, of the single military observer in a remote part of Cambodia who found himself not only acting as the local arbiter of family disputes but also providing a local, much appreciated, medical service using a handbook called When There is No Doctor, who kept on securing supplies from his wife in Germany and the field hospital in Phnomh Penh for his Khmer community? Or the United Nations military observer who spent his leave in Bangkok fund-raising for a water filter for a remote Cambodian village? Now, they happen to be British, but such servants of the world come from many countries. Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 19 We in Britain are committed to our peace-keeping contribution. We now have over 3,300 men and women in blue berets around the world. In June the Secretary-General asked Member States to identify for him those areas of United Nations peace-keeping operations which needed strengthening and for our ideas on positive steps we could take. I look forward to his report drawing all those responses together. Useful steps have certainly been taken. There is now a 24-hour operations room, improving the ability of those here in New York to oversee operations around the world. The standby force planning project has been started. A new Department of Peace-keeping Operations is responsible for all United Nations field missions. We can build on these improvements. Good organization involves clarity and sobriety in setting out our objectives. That means that any operation must have clear and achievable objectives linked to a political process which offers reasonable hope of a solution, and to which all parties should be committed. The mandate should be precise and finite. That means adequate support at Headquarters for planning and reconnaissance missions. It means that the Security Council must resist the temptation to become involved in the detailed conduct of operations. It means the mandate must not create impossible obligations for a force commander on the ground. Once an operation is agreed, command and control relationships could be more clearly defined. Unity of command at the highest level is essential. Where the United Nations is charged with executing as well as authorizing a peace-keeping operation, all aspects of it should be handled by a single department in New York. That is why we have suggested the creation of an expanded planning and operations staff. This in effect is a general staff for peace-keeping. These men and women, civilian and military, would be able together to provide the necessary core of the United Nations strategic-planning chain. They would operate mainly here in New York, but also in the field. They would provide the United Nations with the nervous system for which its present staff is neither structured nor resourced. We are not proposing here some new and heavy bureaucracy. On the contrary, we are talking about core staff: trained staff officers, United Nations civil affairs and, increasingly, humanitarian advisers, and chief administrative officers. The example of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), of a special envoy for all humanitarian and refugee aspects of an operation, is good. Then, there must be flexibility in running peace-keeping operations. The more comprehensive a bureaucracy becomes, the harder it is for it to stay nimble on its feet. Doctrinal and administrative difficulties in working with other international organizations can be overcome. For example, the United Nations is already building valuable links with the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) and with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Many peace-keeping and peacemaking operations can be run more effectively by regional organizations or single countries on behalf of the United Nations. That depends on the nature of the problem and on the proposed action agreed by the United Nations. I am thinking, for example, of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in Liberia, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) in Rwanda, and the European Community and NATO in the former Yugoslavia. Regional organizations can also be asked to help with training. We might look at getting certain nations with well- trained, equipped and available forces to provide the first wave of a peace-keeping force, allowing other nations the time to train and equip their forces to the required standard. A commitment to deploy early would of course need to be matched by a United Nations commitment to agree a firm end-date for the deployment, because exits can be as important as entrances. What we cannot do, we should not pretend to do. If we play a game of bluff, we can deceive and disappoint others, and sometimes we deceive and disappoint ourselves. Rarely can we attain our ends that way. It is empty to pretend that we can impose peace with justice on every disorder, every dispute, outside our national borders. But what the United Nations can do, it should do well. Cambodia, for example, is a success story. So was Namibia. Our peace-keepers have been able to limit, though not stop, conflict and to assuage, though not bring to and end, suffering in Bosnia and Somalia. But the authority of the United Nations will suffer if it fails to approach new challenges realistically and flexibly. However important peace-keeping may be, successful preventive diplomacy would be better. I have just been reading the book published this week by our Australian colleague, the Australian Foreign Minister, Senator Gareth Evans. His new book, Cooperating for Peace, brings this point out well and is full of fruitful ideas. Defusing trouble 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session costs a great deal less than a military operation. You can field plenty of emissaries for the price of a battalion. But to be useful, of course, an emissary has to set about his work before the excitement of violence has taken hold. The Secretary-General has been energetic here. He has sent missions to several areas of tension - to Tajikistan and other regions of the former Soviet Union, to Macedonia, to South Africa and elsewhere. But in this as in other parts of the United Nations system money is tight. Many missions create an acute need for additional international staff with the necessary skills. I am thinking not just of eminent people, of retired ministers or distinguished ambassadors who can head such missions. The Secretary-General will find them when he needs them. What he needs from Member States is personnel at a more junior level with local experience and negotiating skills. Now, we have discussed this problem in particular with the French Government, and as an Anglo-French initiative we stand ready to provide the Secretariat with a list of such people, people who have experience in Government service - sometimes outside Government service - and whom we would be prepared to make available for particular missions. We would also be prepared to provide a certain amount of equipment where personnel provided by the United Kingdom were involved. We are ready to respond to the invitation of the Secretary-General in 'Agenda for Peace' to provide information crucial to the task of preventive diplomacy. The British and French Governments are both committed to support him in this way, and we hope that others may join in a similar enterprise. All this work means a financial burden. Of course we should all pay our assessed contribution in full and promptly. We do so. So do most of our European partners, the Nordic countries and those with a long tradition of peace-keeping like Australia and Canada. But others, not entirely or always through their own fault, others who share the heavy burden of international responsibility, do not. The fact is, the United Nations will always be short of money. Even if everybody pays up in full and on time, the United Nations will still have to choose priorities within the resources available to it. That means - and will always mean - turning down some good causes, and reappraising and sometimes bringing to an end existing commitments. The United Nations needs to conduct a rigorous scrutiny of what it needs and what it spends. Obviously, it would be able to afford more operations if it ran the existing ones more economically. Without thrift, without financial probity, the authority of the United Nations will weaken and vanish. So we welcome the Secretary-General’s recent additional senior appointments at the level of Assistant Secretary-General, covering administrative and financial affairs. We support proposals for a system of inspection with teeth, which can match more delegated financial authority to the field. I mention these three areas - peace-keeping, preventive diplomacy and finance. If we can tackle these three areas constructively and vigorously, there is no reason why even under present strains the authority of the United Nations should not grow as strikingly as the burden of expectations now placed upon it. People will always continue to turn to the United Nations, even if they will always expect more of us than is conceivable. We are discussing, in that context, reform, and we in Britain welcome the debate on Security Council reform. We are discussing positively the enlargement of the Council. This will be complex, as our debate already makes clear, because there are many currents and cross-currents of view. I do not doubt that if there were to be consensus on enlarging the Security Council there are some countries which, because of their global interests, their contribution to international security, their contribution to United Nations peace-keeping, could undertake the full range of responsibilities of a permanent member and can certainly be expected to do so. I have concentrated simply on this Organization for the reason which I gave. Few tasks are more important than improving the way the United Nations works if we are to secure a more stable world. We have lived through the events of these last few years. They have been dramatic and exhilarating, they have changed the political and strategic landscape, but they have not removed from us our responsibility to work constructively for a better United Nations. This better world order will not happen because we make a few speeches or pass a few resolutions. It will be constructed steadily, brick by brick, learning always the right lessons from the past, developing steadily our international institutions and our international relations. It is fair to say that in the last four years, with its ups and downs, we have come a long way, and I believe that, together, we have the will and the wisdom to continue along that road. First of all, I should like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to your important post. I see it as a manifestation of respect for the peace-loving policy of Guyana, and as a tribute to the growing role of Latin American and Caribbean countries in international affairs. Last year demonstrated the great potential for drama inherent in the post-confrontational and post-communist world. We have seen that the very highest levels of cooperation are achievable. We see truly exciting prospects in yesterday’s address by President Bill Clinton of the United States and in other statements already delivered from this rostrum. At the same time, developments in the former Yugoslavia, Abkhazia and Karabakh have also revealed the true depths of barbarism and the significant new threat of aggressive nationalism. Outbursts of violence caused by xenophobia, even in traditionally prosperous countries, have shown that no one is safe from this danger. It is no less serious a threat to peace today than nuclear war was yesterday. The world community mustered the strength to stave off the nuclear danger. An important guarantee against this was the Russian-American START II Treaty. Nowadays we all confront the equally formidable challenge of a new generation of conflicts and wars triggered by nationalist, political and religious intolerance. That is why democracy and peacemaking must be the key terms defining the strategy of the world community as it moves into the twenty-first century. The United Nations is now turning to face this new challenge. The successful United Nations operation in Cambodia was one of the largest in the history of the Organization. Life is returning to normal in a country so long torn by civil war. We stand ready, together with other members of the international community, to help the people of Cambodia to rebuild their country. Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 15 We have seen a political and psychological breakthrough in the solution of the key problem of the Middle East settlement, which is the problem of Palestine. We pay tribute to the courageous leaders of Israel and the PLO who have taken the first and most difficult step towards mutual recognition and reconciliation. We are ready to participate in an international conference on the economic development of self-governing Palestinian territories. Russia, as a co-sponsor of the Conference on the Middle East, will spare no effort to advance the peace process in all other areas. However, the key to the settlement of many conflicts has not yet been found. Russia will continue to encourage the parties to the Bosnian conflict not to lose the chance of a peaceful settlement and will contribute to the operation for its implementation under United Nations command. Twice during wartime I have had occasion to visit Sarajevo. I propose that the United Nations should place the city under its moral and political protection and that it should be declared a centre of coexistence and a meeting point for Islam, the Orthodox Church, Catholicism and other religions. The city should become a symbol for the whole world, a reminder that political violence and intolerance under the banner of religion are the worst possible crimes against religion itself and the human spirit. In any case, it is surely time to think of establishing closer contacts between the United Nations and the world’s leading religions. The international community seems to have turned a blind eye to Afghanistan and Angola as soon as they ceased to be pawns in the cold war. The United Nations has no right to leave millions of people who live there in the grip of an epidemic of ethnic, clan and religious extremism and to forget their economic and humanitarian problems, including that of the liberation of former Soviet prisoners of war. We must learn the lessons of the United Nations operation in Somalia and considerably improve its effectiveness. Conscious of its special responsibility for maintaining peace, Russia has made peacemaking and the protection of human rights, particularly those of national minorities, the priority of its foreign policy, first and foremost in the territory of the former USSR. We will spare no effort to strengthen the Commonwealth of Independent States and make it a positive factor, not only regionally, but globally. I call upon Members of the United Nations to support proposals submitted jointly by the members of the Commonwealth of Independent States to the present session, relating in particular to the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the struggle against international terrorism and the protection of the environment. Our peacemaking efforts are already yielding their first results. For more than a year now there have been no hostilities in the Transdniester region and South Ossetia. With our participation, the process of normalization of the situation and national dialogue has started in Tajikistan. Russia is making active efforts to put an end to the Abkhazian and Karabakh conflicts and to render humanitarian assistance to their victims. All these problems are too serious and too tragic for speculation about neo-imperial plans of Russia, diplomatic rivalry, or the search for new spheres of influence by neighbouring and distant Powers. The United Nations, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), and all States truly interested in peace, along with Russia, will have enough work to do together. We want to see much more active assistance for our peacemaking efforts, not in words, but in deeds. In most cases this means that the United Nations should give a mandate for operations conducted at the request of conflicting parties on the basis of appropriate agreements. For this, close interaction with the United Nations and the CSCE missions is essential. Also, our minds should be open to non-traditional methods, such as the participation of contingents of the conflicting parties themselves and those of a neighbouring mediating State. The pragmatic nature of such a model was shown in particular in the Transdniester region and in South Ossetia. This model should be used, and not disregarded, in other regions, in the interests of the United Nations, which is facing an overload of peace- keeping operations. The collective peacemaking forces of the Commonwealth of Independent States could also interact with the United Nations itself. It is in any case time to establish closer relations between the two organizations. In material and financial terms the burden of peacemaking borne by Russia alone today in the territory of the former USSR must be lightened. This could mean establishing a voluntary fund for this purpose. Of course, Russia realizes that no international organization or group of States can replace our peacemaking efforts in this specific post-Soviet area. 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session By and large, taking into consideration the wide experience gained throughout the world, it is time to think of a modern overall strategy of peacemaking which would be integrated with 'An Agenda for Peace' proposed by the Secretary-General. The Russian Federation, as an initiator of the statement of the President of the Security Council on peacemaking and peace-keeping issues, made on 28 May 1993, makes the following proposals. The first is to define a clear-cut concept of political leadership by the Security Council, create an effective military command under the supervision of the Secretary- General and establish a procedure for involving, on that basis, regional organizations. The second is to establish under Article 29 of the United Nations Charter a special Security Council committee on improving peace-keeping operation practices. This could include those States which have already gained considerable experience in this area of United Nations activity. Our third proposal is to set up United Nations stand-by forces which would be at the disposal of Member States and used in peacemaking operations with the consent of their Governments on a case-by-case basis at the request of the Secretary-General. All these questions directly relate to the process of renewal of the United Nations. The reform of United Nations bodies, including the Security Council, will make sense and be effective if it allows for a more adequate response to new challenges in the field of peacemaking. The settlement of conflicts should go hand in hand with the international protection of their victims. As a follow-up to the Geneva International Conference on the Protection of Victims of War, we propose that international legal restrictions be imposed on the use in internal conflicts of the most destructive and indiscriminate types of weapons, primarily military aircraft and artillery-rocket systems. We should also eliminate or call a halt to the use of mercenaries and volunteers both in domestic and international conflicts. We propose the establishment of a permanent international tribunal to deal with crimes against humanity. The inevitability of punishment will help to prevent the recurrence of such atrocities. It has become crucially important to address comprehensively the problem of refugees and to specify the relevant principles of international law at a special conference. Peacemaking cannot be separated from the protection of human rights. The international community is duty-bound to condemn strongly 'double' or lower standards of human rights protection, the theory and practice of the superiority of rights of an 'indigenous' nation and the creation of mono- ethnic States. The time has come to establish a United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Following the example of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, it is time for the United Nations also to have a Special Rapporteur on National Minorities. We support the proposals of the Secretary-General in the field of human rights protection. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction would directly contradict the peacemaking efforts of the United Nations. This poses an ever growing threat not only in the future but even at the present. We are ready to cooperate with the United States and other countries in solving the problems connected with cutting off fissionable material production and banning the construction of facilities for such production, particularly in conflict areas. We are in favour of transforming the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty into a universal agreement of unlimited duration. The United Nations should also work to ensure the universality of and strict compliance with the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. Russia reiterates, from this rostrum of the General Assembly, its intention to adhere to the international regime of non-proliferation of missile technology. In the very near future, we intend to take concrete steps to strengthen our relevant domestic legislation, going so far as to envisage criminal prosecution for violations of the rules governing the export of missile equipment and technology. We call on all States that possess such technology to join the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR). It is also necessary to provide for equality of rights and obligations of the participants, so as to enable them freely to export peaceful space technology. Successful economic reform is one of the guarantees of peace. This is of particular relevance to the many developing countries and to the post-communist States. Easier access to world markets for countries with transitional economies, including Russia, and the lifting of all discriminatory restrictions is becoming an issue of the highest priority. We Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 17 believe that the General Assembly should express its support for efforts in this direction. We also propose the establishment of a mechanism to coordinate programmes carried out by the institutions of the United Nations system in support of economic reforms in countries in transition. The strengthening of democracy is the principal guarantee of security and socio-economic development in the world today. This has been true in Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America, although the process is not proceeding easily and automatically everywhere. Peoples who have risen up against totalitarianism are threatened by the risk of political violence and ultra-nationalism. We categorically reject such an alternative. Russia is peacefully transforming itself in accordance with the fundamental principle of democracy: free elections. In 1991, the people of Russia elected their country’s first democratic President, and they confirmed their confidence in his policies at the April referendum this year. On the basis of this twofold mandate, the President has taken decisive measures to ensure democratic elections to the Parliament in December of this year. Thus, the old totalitarian system of power will be definitively dismantled and replaced by a new system of power elected by the people and responsible only to the people. We invite international observers to monitor the elections to the Parliament. In building a new democratic Russia, we of course must first of all rely on our own potential. Yet we very much appreciate the solidarity the democratic community has shown us. Such solidarity is neither an act of interference in our domestic affairs nor the whimsical gesture of romanticists in international politics. It is simply an expression of the human duty to protect the rights of individuals in other countries. Next month will mark the fiftieth anniversary of the Moscow Conference when, in the turbulent year of 1943, the foundation was laid for the establishment of the United Nations, which was conceived as an organization of democratic countries having triumphed over Nazi totalitarianism. Half a century later, the success of democracy in Russia and many other countries has made it possible for the first time to realize fully the lofty destiny of the United Nations and to help it become a truly efficient peacemaking Organization. We should not allow political short-sightedness, current economic difficulties, egoism and conceit to make us lose the chance to transform the still fragile post-communist world into a democratic one. I hope that this session will move us closer to an understanding of this goal and of the ways of reaching it in the interests of all States and nations. May I, at the outset, take this opportunity to extend our most sincere condolences and deepest sympathy to the delegation, Government and people of India following the earthquake disaster, which has left thousands of people dead and many villages destroyed. We share the grief of the people of India at this sorrowful and tragic time. I should like to join those representatives who have already congratulated Mr. Insanally of Guyana on his unanimous election as President of the General Assembly of the United Nations at its forty-eighth session. His election to this high office is a demonstration of the confidence that the Member States have in him and of their respect for his country, Guyana. We are confident that, under his wise guidance, our deliberations in this session will achieve the desired results. I also wish to pay tribute to Mr. Insanally’s predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, for steering the forty-seventh session to a successful conclusion. We commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, too for the skilful and competent manner in which he is directing the Organization. Allow me to take this opportunity to congratulate the Members that were admitted to the Organization during the past year. Their admission strengthens the ideal of the universality of the United Nations. We assure them of our willingness to work closely with them in our common efforts to create a better world. The end of the cold war created an unprecedented opportunity to increase international cooperation with a view to achieving international peace and security and promoting the socio-economic progress envisaged in the United Nations Charter. However, the new challenges emerging on the global scene demand that the international community summon up the will and imagination to overcome them. The disappearance of the great ideological rivalry between East and West has resulted in a sense of soberness and improvement in relations between States. It has also led to a reduction in tensions and to significant progress in the area of disarmament, thereby creating opportunities for the conversion of massive resources to peaceful uses. Peace and security, however, is not merely the absence of war or the threat of war; it is the absence of conditions that threaten the enjoyment of life and social harmony. The United Nations now has an opportunity to put fully into effect the system of security envisaged in its Charter. This system is based on the principles of the peaceful settlement of disputes and collective action in pursuit of international peace and the maintenance of global security. Equally important, the world has an opportunity to build pillars of peace by tackling sources of instability in the economic, social, humanitarian and ecological fields. The brutal war in Bosnia, the destruction of Somalia and the protracted civil wars in Angola and elsewhere confirm the futility of the use of force as a means of solving disputes. The ratification of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START I) by the Governments of the United States of America and the Russian Federation and their signing of the START II Agreements in January 1993 are significant developments in disarmament. The primary responsibility for nuclear disarmament rests with those States that possess the nuclear arsenals. Kenya, however, strongly believes that the international community as a whole must be involved and should contribute to measures intended to achieve nuclear disarmament and the non-proliferation of all weapons of mass destruction. Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 21 Contrary to expectations, the collapse of the bipolar world order has not given way to a new order of peace and democracy and improved socio-economic situations. The emerging order has raised new challenges and new approaches to solutions. As Members of the United Nations family, we need to redouble our efforts with vision and determination to balance both short- and long-term interests as we struggle to shape the new order. In many parts of the world, we are confronted with assertions of nationalism coupled with territorial claims. As the Secretary-General puts it in his Agenda for Peace, '... the cohesion of States is threatened by brutal ethnic, religious, social, cultural and linguistic strife'. (A/47/277, para. 11) Kenya subscribes to the thrust of the Agenda for Peace as elaborated during the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, on the basis of which a draft resolution will be adopted during this session. The elaboration of the Agenda for Peace should take into account the principles of sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs of nation-States. The new approach will widen and deepen the scope of the United Nations in the promotion of the peaceful settlement of disputes and the maintenance of peace and security. In this regard, Kenya urges the full exploitation of the potential of the International Court of Justice in the adjudication of disputes between States as a potential transparent and cost-effective means of conflict resolution. The case of Somalia is particularly distressing. We strongly believe that keeping United Nations peace-keeping personnel in Somalia is critical to the pursuit of peace and security in that country. We note with appreciation the Secretary-General’s report that, despite several incidences of violence in Mogadishu, there are improvements in the overall situation, including eradication of starvation, establishment of a large number of district councils, opening of schools and resumption of normal life in most areas of the country. We also welcome Security Council resolution 865 (1993) of 22 September, by which the Council, inter alia, invites the Secretary-General to consult the countries of the region and regional organizations concerned on means of further reinvigorating the reconciliation process. We believe that the regional peace initiatives can effectively complement the United Nations efforts in facilitating reconciliation between all the factions in Somalia. The highest priority is to assist the people of Somalia in furthering the national reconciliation process and to promote and advance the re-establishment of regional and national institutions and civil administration in the entire country, as set out in Security Council resolution 814 (1993). This requires improvement of the dialogue between the United Nations personnel in Somalia and the general Somali public as an essential element in confidence-building to facilitate reconciliation between the various factions. Kenya shares an 800-kilometre-long border with Somalia. In many ways, we are extremely exposed to the Somalia problem. Somalia is a sister country with which we share family relations as well as ethnic and cultural affinities. The very heavy influx of Somali refugees into Kenya has had a devastating effect on the most ecologically fragile parts of the country. The border region has suffered serious environmental destruction as a result of excessive cutting of trees for building materials and firewood. The physical and social infrastructures have been overstretched by excessive usage and overloading. Most seriously, our people and security personnel have been subjected to numerous acts of banditry by armed gangs crossing into Kenya from Somalia, causing general insecurity in the border region. We have continued to lose both civilians and security personnel at an unacceptably high rate as a result of attacks by bandits. Huge numbers of livestock and huge quantities of other property have also been lost to them. As peace is being restored in Somalia, we are cooperating with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to accelerate the voluntary repatriation of refugees. At the same time, we are requesting the United Nations and the donor community to urgently assist Kenya with programmes for the rehabilitation of the physical and social infrastructures as well as for the restoration of the ecosystem in the region. We are also requesting the Secretary-General to reinforce the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM) patrols along the Somali side of the border so as to complement the efforts of the Kenyan security personnel on our side. We believe that the joint security efforts will significantly scale down the flow of armed gangs and individuals into Kenya. Sudan is another neighbouring country that has for a long time now been suffering devastating civil strife. The problem has been of great concern not only to the neighbouring countries but also to the Organization of 22 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session African Unity (OAU) and the United Nations. There is an urgent need for the United Nations to support the ongoing regional efforts spearheaded by Presidents Yoweri Museveni of Uganda, Afwerki of Eritrea and Zenawi of Ethiopia under the chairmanship of President Daniel Arap Moi of Kenya. We appeal to all parties involved in the conflict to be flexible in the search for a just and lasting solution. Elsewhere in our continent, efforts to find solutions to ethnic and other conflicts have shown encouraging trends. We are confident that the people of Mozambique, Rwanda and Liberia will realize their dreams of peace through the process of dialogue. Greater involvement by the United Nations in the Rwandese peace process is pertinent at this stage. It is essential that the peace accords signed in these countries be honoured by all the parties, with effective support from the United Nations, the OAU and regional bodies, and with generous assistance from friendly countries. The situation in Angola is very disturbing. The ongoing bloodshed could easily have been avoided if the UNITA leadership had accepted the verdict of the people in the elections. We appeal to UNITA to agree to a dialogue for a peaceful political solution, with the mediation and increased support of the United Nations, OAU and the sponsors of the Peace Accords. We are also greatly encouraged by the developments that have taken place in South Africa. The agreement reached for the creation of the Transitional Executive Council and the setting of a date for the first democratic elections pave the way for the establishment of a truly non-racial, democratic South Africa. We support the recent call by Mr. Nelson Mandela, the President of the African National Congress of South Africa (ANC), for all diplomatic and economic sanctions against South Africa to be lifted. The recently concluded, momentous agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) marks a turning point in the process of finding a just and lasting solution to the Palestinian and, indeed, the Middle East problem. We are encouraged by the assurances that this is the first tangible step towards the establishment of a Palestinian State alongside Israel. We wish the Palestinian and Israeli people happy and peaceful coexistence. Further afield, we welcome the successful holding of the elections under United Nations auspices in Cambodia, the conclusion of the Governors Island Agreement on the restoration of a democratically elected Government of Haiti, and the progress towards the establishment of lasting peace in El Salvador. The experience of Somalia and other regional conflicts convinces us that there is an urgent need for the United Nations to re-evaluate the existing international control systems for conventional-weapon production and trade. The widespread availability of deadly conventional weapons constitutes the most important factor in the prolongation of regional and civil conflicts. With its increased responsibilities and challenges, the United Nations needs to be restructured and revitalized so that it can effectively discharge its responsibilities. It must also be provided with adequate resources. The tasks ahead demand that the energy and attention of all components of the United Nations be engaged fully and appropriately. The General Assembly must be enabled to play its full role in decisions affecting international peace and security. There is a need to establish a balanced relationship between the Assembly and the other principal organs of the United Nations, and to ensure logical accountability of the principal organs, in particular the Security Council. The Security Council must also be reformed so that it is more transparent, more representative and more democratic in its decision-making process, while at the same time its effectiveness is ensured. The ongoing restructuring and revitalization of the Economic and Social Council and the United Nations in the economic, social and related fields should strengthen the Council and enable it to play a central role in providing policy recommendations to the General Assembly. Similarly, the ongoing efforts to restructure the Secretariat must be balanced and accord appropriate priority to development concerns. Operational activities of the Organization must be provided with adequate resources on a sustainable basis to enable it effectively to promote socio-economic progress in accordance with its Charter. Peace-keeping operations have increasingly become among the most utilized and widely acceptable instruments of the Organization, especially in discharging its primary responsibility in the maintenance of international peace and security. The operations have also increasingly taken on new and broader assignments and responsibilities. Kenya is happy to be closely associated with peace-keeping operations. We have contributed military and police personnel to many peace-keeping operations world wide. The enormous rise in the number and scope of peace-keeping operations requires that the ability of the Secretariat to manage such large-scale operations be Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 23 strengthened and also that Member States be ready to finance the operations. In this connection, the serious concerns expressed by the Secretary-General and his urgent appeals to Member States to pay arrears of contributions must receive a concrete and speedy response from all the Members of this Organization. The formula for apportioning contributions should reflect the special responsibility of the permanent members of the Security Council and of other developed countries and take into account the relatively limited capacities of developing countries. A dramatic change in the formula of contributions could, I submit, complicate further the problem of arrears. The establishment of the peace-keeping reserve fund would go a long way towards making peace-keeping operations more efficient. In this regard, a timely and effective response by the United Nations will largely depend on the availability of adequate resources, at least in the initial stages, to cater for the critical time lost in negotiations for the financing of peace-keeping operations. It is also important that a formula be developed to establish a more predictable financial basis for the peace-keeping operations. The uncertainty prevailing in the world economy today is a cause for serious concern. Insufficient growth in the developed countries has contributed to the unfavourable external conditions that threaten the political, economic and social stability of many developing countries. These include renewed pressures for increased protectionism, falling commodity prices and the decline in financial flows, among other conditions. Despite the far-reaching economic and political reforms which have been put in place by most African countries in the last three years, the situation continues to be grim, since the region continues to experience economic growth of less than 2 per cent. The current trends, if not reversed, threaten to marginalize further the participation of African countries in the global economy. The liberalization of the African economies and the hard work of the African people are not in themselves sufficient to transform the socio-economic situation in Africa. The continent is not playing the international economic game with other continents on a level ground. We wish, therefore, to underscore the need for the international community to seize the opportunity created by the positive changes taking place on the continent and give Africa real support so that the gains made for economic and democratic reform will be sustainable. At the same time, African countries should continue to strengthen their regional integration efforts within the regional bodies already established, such as the Preferential Trade Area for the Eastern and Southern African Countries (PTA), the Inter-Governmental Authority for Drought and Development (IGADD) in the Horn of Africa, and the ongoing efforts to revive East African cooperation. Our experience in Kenya in implementing structural adjustment programmes is that the reforms have inherent negative short-term effects, particularly on the poor and the other vulnerable members of society. These include the fall in their purchasing power owing to the liberalization of prices, job losses through a reduction of manpower in the public sector, and the reduction of government expenditure on such essential social services as health, education and other infrastructures. The donor community needs, therefore, to balance the aid conditionalities with the socio-economic realities obtaining in the countries implementing structural adjustment programmes, particularly by addressing the social dimensions of such programmes in concrete and human terms. The United Nations new agenda for the development of Africa in the 1990s, adopted by the General Assembly at its forty-sixth session, commits the international community to implement concrete and effective measures to support Africa’s own efforts in the process of economic reforms and development. The success of the implementation of the programme will depend, first, on the efforts of the African countries themselves and, secondly, on the back-up resources from multilateral and bilateral donors. We are concerned that these resources are shrinking owing to diversion and what appears to be a subtle disengagement from Africa. The acute external debt of African countries and the heavy and unbearable burden of servicing that debt are among the matters on which concrete action is needed. The burden of debt-servicing drains the continent of over $10 billion annually, thus diverting resources badly needed for investment and alleviation of poverty. On trade, it is gratifying to note that, after six months of stalemate, multilateral negotiations of the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) have resumed. We emphasize, however, that the outcome of the negotiations should be balanced to take account of the particular needs of the poor developing countries. The World Conference on Human Rights, which was held in Vienna, Austria, in June this year, marked a significant watershed for the international community on the important question of human rights. That Conference emphasized that human rights are interdependent and 24 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session indivisible. It recognized development as a basic human right. Democracy, development and human rights go hand in hand, as experience has shown that it is difficult to guarantee some basic rights, especially economic and social rights, in situations of abject poverty. As I emphasized in my statement at that Conference, the existing international institutions for human rights need strengthening. At the same time, developing countries require support and assistance to strengthen their domestic institutions and build strong foundations for the rule of law and the administration of justice. Since the Rio Conference on Environment and Development, Governments and international agencies have focused their attention on the implementation of Agenda 21. The first substantive meeting of the Commission on Sustainable Development, held in June this year, made tangible progress in adopting crucial decisions on its work programme. Kenya welcomes the progress being made towards ensuring the effectiveness of the Global Environmental Facility as an important instrument for funding incremental costs related to the implementation of Agenda 21. However, we are concerned that adequate financial resources for the implementation of the programme have fallen short of expectations. On institutional arrangements, while Kenya supports the mandate given to the Commission on Sustainable Development in regard to monitoring progress in the implementation of Agenda 21, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) must continue to play a central role owing to the experience and expertise it has accumulated over the years in the area of the environment. The need to strengthen UNEP to enable it to participate effectively in the implementation of Agenda 21 can therefore not be overemphasized. Accordingly, the conference facilities at UNEP Headquarters in Nairobi must be put to full use. It is neither economically sound nor in keeping with the objective of strengthening UNEP to have many meetings initiated by the Organization held outside its Headquarters. As a host country, Kenya shall continue to provide all the necessary assistance to UNEP to enable it to play its central and, indeed, its rightful role. As the Secretariat of the United Nations undergoes restructuring, we should be mindful of the mandates of various agencies and bodies in order to avoid the possibility of losing the original objective. Kenya is concerned that the role of the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat), whose Headquarters are in Nairobi, is being eroded by the undue delay in filling the post of Executive Director, despite the concerns expressed by the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session. The filling of the post will give the required impetus to the Habitat secretariat. As to the social issues, I wish to assure members of our cooperation with the international community in the preparatory work for the forthcoming Conference on Population and Development, to be held next year; the Fourth World Conference on Women, also to be held in 1994; and the World Summit for Social Development, set for 1995. We need to put all our energies into the preparatory work of these Conferences to ensure that they achieve their intended objectives. In conclusion, the international community, through this Assembly, must make every effort to face these challenges and many more which are yet to come. We owe it to posterity and to future generations to leave this world a better place to live in. We have neither excuses nor reasons to fail. And if we do fail, history will judge us harshly. In this endeavour, our differences should strengthen rather than weaken us, for in unity lies our strength. In the words of our beloved President, His Excellency Daniel Teroitich Arap Moi, love, peace and unity are the pillars for development and progress. I should like at the outset to extend to you, Mr. President, my sincere congratulations on your well-deserved election. I should like to wish you and the other members of the General Committee success in the discharge of your important duties. I had a chance to congratulate the President of the Assembly at its last session when I saw him in Amman, and I should now like to reiterate my gratitude for his competent presidency. The cold war may be over, but its death-knell reverberates around the globe. The comforting ideological certainties of super-Power confrontation are long gone. What have we to replace them? The new world order, with its promise of peace through collective security, has come upon a baptism of fire. And still it would appear that no common frame of reference, no new consensus, no global ethic, has emerged. As we enter the new millennium, we see the human spirit under siege as never before. Across the world, the voices of millions cry out in desperation for relief, for guidance. If we, the peoples of the United Nations, are to be true to our humanity, we must reappraise this situation that is of our own making. We must learn its lessons, no matter how hard, and we must apply them. It is our task today, and in the days to come, to fashion principles and practices for a truly new world order. In all fields of human endeavour, we need a new ethic for a new era. The balance of world power politics has given way. Ethnic nationalism has re-emerged, a phenomenon in which the unifying bond of common citizenship is replaced by racial or religious exclusivity. As a consequence, we face a series of apparently endless wars of attrition, fought to secure the domination of one ethnic nationalism over another. This trend must be reversed if our world is to be made safe from the spreading contagion of conflict. Many over the years have thought it impossible, but the Middle East is bucking this alarming trend. The signing on 13 September of the Palestinian-Israeli declaration of principles represents a significant step towards the achievement of a negotiated settlement in our troubled region. On the Jordanian-Israeli track, a common agenda, which has been carefully worked out over the last year and a half, has now been adopted. We trust that this will signify the commencement of serious and substantive negotiations on the various elements of that agenda, with the aim of achieving just and mutually satisfactory solutions. These developments are a triumph not only for the politics of consensus, but also for the international morality which the United Nations advocates and the legality it upholds. Over the years the Assembly has passed resolution after resolution calling for a just, comprehensive and lasting settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict and the Palestine question that lies at its core. Finally, the main actors are playing the leading part in shaping their own destinies. My country has always sought to bring this prolonged and bitter conflict to an end, and in our search for solutions we have constantly aimed to reconcile peace and justice. Jordan has advocated a negotiated settlement based on Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) longer than any other party. Under the new arrangements, all parties to the conflict are committed to the implementation of those resolutions, affirming a cardinal principle of international law: the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force. There is an equally important principle to bear in mind, however. Peace cannot be piecemeal. It must be comprehensive if it is to be viable. As foreseen in the Madrid framework for the peace talks, some issues cannot be addressed by any two parties to the exclusion of others. The questions of regional security, water and above all the refugees cannot be resolved without direct reference to the neighbouring States. The status of Jerusalem has to be determined in a similar way. The legitimate rights which the three great monotheistic faiths share in the Holy City must be guaranteed and claims of political and administrative sovereignty accommodated to the satisfaction of all. In view of Jordan’s long association with the Palestinian question, the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO)-Israeli agreement will have major implications for our legitimate interests. At a time when new entities are being formed, an orderly transfer of power and authority is vital. Only this can safeguard the rights of existing States and those of individuals. There are questions to address about State property, archives, debts, treaties, nationality, salaries, pensions - the list is long, but not exhaustive. Jordan will seek modalities for their resolution with the relevant parties through our agenda. The refugee question is of paramount importance. It should not, and must not, be forgotten that the individuals affected have under international law a right of return and compensation, and their host countries are likewise entitled to compensation. Jordan has shouldered an enormous human load as a result of the conflict. Three waves of involuntary migrants - the refugees of 1948, the evacuees of 1967 and the returnees of 1991 - have sought shelter and succor in Jordan. Our treatment of these and other displaced persons has been exemplary. We have provided them with education and health services, with jobs and welfare. Citizens of Jordan, whether of Palestinian or Jordanian origin, enjoy civil and human rights equally and participate as equals in our democratization process. Jordan seeks an equitable, sustainable international approach to the treatment of our demographic burden, for it would be unconscionable to penalize host countries for their humanitarian policies. Another crucial issue is water. Our agenda strikes a delicate balance between the need for optimal utilization of scarce resources, on the one hand, and the equally imperative need to define the rights and duties of riparian States, on the other. We also look forward to definitive delineation of our borders with Israel, thereby giving concrete expression to the right of every nation to live in secure and internationally recognized boundaries. When the euphoria has subsided, these serious and complex questions will remain. The PLO-Israel accord, historic as it is, represents a first step towards Palestinian final status, which in turn will allow the Palestinians to take part in comprehensive regional security and cooperation arrangements. For the Middle East cannot be reduced to a single issue. It more closely resembles a tapestry woven of numerous intertwining threads. One of these wider regional issues - the suffering of the Iraqi people - demands urgently to be addressed. A succession of independent reports has brought to light the special impact of continued sanctions upon the most vulnerable segments of Iraqi society - in particular, the children. The sanctions regime that daily takes its toll on the people of Iraq also has adverse consequences for neighbouring States, including Jordan and Turkey. Issues such as this must be resolved if the Middle East is to seize its chance for lasting peace. A cooperative security system will help to protect the security of the States and peoples of the region. We can only avert the kind of destabilizing conflict that followed the end of the cold war in Eurasia by Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 3 making arrangements to ensure our common future, underpinned by the full support of the international community. Despite these outstanding questions, I have no doubt that the extraordinary achievements of the autumn of 1993 will be seen in years to come as the start of a fresh course in the settlement of regional conflicts. The politics of dialogue and reconciliation have been our regional and domestic priorities, for they are essential to the democratic process. We seek to extend the principles of consensus and collective security to the Middle East to create a new regional order, an order which recognizes the right of each individual to lead a life free from fear, want and despair, an order which will provide justice to all peoples and security to all States, an order in which the United Nations and its agencies can play a positive role not only in humanitarian intervention or the protection of human rights, but in active peace-keeping and peacemaking. Jordan applauds Secretary-General Boutros-Ghali for his valiant efforts to overhaul the United Nations structure and personnel, injecting a fresh sense of purpose commensurate with the new challenges. It is in the interests of all Members of this body to see international law respected and upheld. We must all assist the Secretary- General in determining the criteria for United Nations intervention, whether in Lebanon, Iraq, Somalia, Bosnia, Angola, Cambodia or anywhere else. The terms of reference embodied in Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter must be clearly defined, with checks and balances approved to avoid the erosion of the independence and territorial sovereignty of Member States. There is also an urgent need for well-trained international peace-keeping forces, which could be established under a reconstituted Military Staff Committee. The modus operandi for all United Nations action, irrespective of the issue at hand, must be the supremacy of the rule of law and the uniformity of its application. Double standards should not and must not be permitted, lest abuse of the law become the accepted norm. A wider issue concerning this Organization is that of Security Council reform. Jordan adds its voice to the host of countries that have called for a reassessment of the structure of the Security Council. Clearly, conditions in the world have changed dramatically since the formation of the Council, and we believe that these should be reflected in its composition. Jordan also lends its support to the Secretary- General’s proposals for post-conflict peace-building outlined in his 'An Agenda for Peace'. For in every part of the world peace will remain illusory unless it touches the daily lives of ordinary people. Peace will not take root except in an environment conducive to regional cooperation and mutual security and committed to the welfare of individual human beings. The development of economic infrastructure and provisions for investment in public services are as crucial as the questions of territorial sovereignty, national identity and security. It is for this reason that Jordan welcomes the recently convened conference to support Middle East peace as both timely and pragmatic. The peace dividend in my region, as elsewhere, must put an end to the politics of deprivation, fear and despair, the breeding ground for political extremism and rejection. The disparities and distortions created by half a century of conflict in the Middle East have given rise to such phenomena. That is undeniable. However, there is considerable alarm in the Muslim world at suggestions that Islam may replace communism as a global threat. These suggestions are informed by a skewed perception of Islam as a monolithic creed of violence, intolerance and oppression. Islam is not the new enemy. Extremism does exist within the Muslim world, much as it exists in the Christian world, the Jewish world, the Hindu world and the secular world. But to employ reductive stereotypes which demonize one fifth of the world’s population must ultimately be self- defeating. It can only result in the breed of senseless violence that has brought untold suffering and loss of life to Bosnia. Rather than seeking an enemy at the gates, let us each in our own communities look inwards and address the disparities and the despair that are the true causes of extremism and conflict. Let us join together to do battle with the real enemy. That enemy is a new world of 'each for himself'. That is what we must combat, with all the resources at our disposal. For the politics and economics of exclusivity are the bane of both pragmatism and idealism. Is the triple pillar of democracy, human rights and the free market the ceiling of our ambition? Democracy and free market economics are exceptionally successful systems with noble objectives. But they are not ends in themselves. The end for which we all strive is greater peace and greater justice for individual human beings across the world. How is this to be achieved? One of our strongest defences against a new world of 'each for himself' would be a new global business ethic, applying not only among the developed nations, but also 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session between those nations and the developing countries. Such an ethic might prescribe a relationship of partnership which would in turn encourage greater self-reliance. Such an ethic would be wholly reconcilable with human rights, with pluralism, with care for the environment and with basic religious values. I would like to suggest that the key to a new ethic in all of these areas is our mutual interdependence. Whatever the context, injustice is perceived and conflict results when the gap between 'self' and 'other' seems larger than the common ground. This fundamental split between 'me' and 'you', between 'us' and 'them', is at the root of all oppositions, all polarities, all conflicts. Recognition of our mutual interdependence requires us to acknowledge the uniqueness of each individual and each culture - even into the broader environment - and to learn to live with the differences as with the commonalities. It requires that we strive for unity, but never seek to eradicate or compromise diversity. It requires a new thinking based on tolerance and compassion - a humane approach and respect for the voices of others. It requires, in short, that we be true to the ideals that fired the founders of this Organization when they wrote the words: 'We the peoples of the United Nations'. Herein lies the nexus between peacemaking, human rights, pluralism, cultural heritage and business ethics. Here lies the key to a new world of 'all for each other', not 'each for himself'. The Middle East is showing the way. Its conflict, once held to be the most intractable on Earth, is now on the path to reconciliation and healing. As we enter a new millennium, a new era, let the world take heart from our example. Let us emerge together from the past and together let us build our brave new world. I should like to congratulate Mr. Insanally on his election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. While opening our session, he rightly reminded us of the hopes now placed in this universal forum - to which we welcome six new Members - and of the growing need for what he described as a collective vision of our future. Allow me to convey to the Government and the people of India the deepest sympathy of the Irish people for the victims of the earthquake. We meet here at a time of great hope for the peoples of the Middle East. Years of bitter antagonism and conflict have yielded to agreement and, we hope, reconciliation between the two great historical traditions in an area that has seen far too much bloodshed. The signature of the agreement in Washington was an act of the highest statesmanship and courage. It deserves a commensurate response from the other countries of the region and from the international community. I welcome President Clinton’s speedy initiative in convening today a conference on aid to Palestine. We in Ireland stand ready to play our part, together with our partners in the European Community. We will increase substantially our aid to the West Bank and Gaza, and we will take steps to strengthen and develop our good relations with Israel and with the Palestinian people. It is also a time of great hope for the people of South Africa. When the prisoner of Robben Island, Nelson Mandela, states, in Afrikaans to an Afrikaner audience, that what is done, is done, and looks to a shared future for all South Africans, it sends a powerful message to all of us. A new South Africa is in the making. We have waited and striven long for this day. I am happy to announce that we in Ireland have decided to establish diplomatic relations with that new South Africa. It is a time of hope, but also of apprehension, particularly for the people of Russia. The course of reform is not yet complete. I am confident that the way forward identified by President Yeltsin will continue to be endorsed by the people so that Russia may continue on the path to stable democracy and sustained economic development. The recent changes in international life have brought great and lasting benefits to many: to those who endured authoritarian forms of government for decades and have now gained the freedom to exercise their basic human and civil rights; to peoples released from the super-Power competition that enabled dictatorial and repressive regimes to act with impunity; to the wider international community that no longer lives under the threat of global nuclear conflagration. Yet the optimism that characterized the early days of the post-cold-war period has been tempered by the realization that for every advance in the Middle East or in South Africa, there is an Angola, or a Yugoslavia, a Somalia, a Sudan. For all our progress, thousands continue to die in brutal wars, thousands more suffer from gross abuses of human rights and millions are denied their basic right to food, water and shelter. There is still a great distance to be travelled to a world of justice, equality and true respect for the individual. People look here, to the United Nations, to help them travel that distance. Faced with this hope, this expectation - this demand - our Organization today must meet challenges of a kind that it has not had to cope with in the past, challenges qualitatively different from the international and regional disputes that have traditionally absorbed so much of the United Nations energies. We are coming to understand better the interrelated nature of these tasks: the struggle to end war; to advance democracy; to promote economic development; to protect the dignity of the individual; to ensure freedom and the rule of law; to protect the environment; to deal with the problems of population - all are part of the same effort. Success in one requires progress in others. We are coming to understand too that the activities of States and Governments require the broader cooperative context of the United Nations. As our problems are transnational, so too must be our response. The fact is that we need a United Nations whose organization and decisions truly represent the will of the international community. We need a United Nations whose activities truly address the great contemporary challenges, and we need a United Nations that is not hindered by lack of resources in personnel and finance. At no time in its history has the need to re-examine and strengthen the United Nations system been greater or more Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 31 widely felt, and these themes of representation, relevance and resources are at the heart of the debate about the reform of the United Nations. As the body charged with the primary responsibility for international peace and security, it is imperative that the Security Council should function well and with authority. The Council’s response to the huge demands that have been made of it in recent years has been impressive. The number and scope of its decisions are greater than ever before, and the import of those decisions for States and for peoples everywhere is more far-reaching. And yet, we must ask if the Council truly represents the almost universal membership of the Organization and reflects fully the great changes that have taken place in economic and political relations. These are questions of the deepest significance for international cooperation, but I believe that unless they are addressed now, the political authority of the Security Council and its capacity to act decisively and with confidence will be eroded. Ireland therefore supports the case for an increase in the membership of the Security Council. I hope that decisions on this can be taken before the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations in two years’ time. There is a need also for greater transparency in Security Council decision-making. The general membership, though it takes no part in the Council’s decisions, is bound by them, and we are frequently called on to supply personnel and finance to implement the Council’s expanded and increasingly complex mandates. We must work for a more interactive relationship between the Council and the General Assembly, and for more frequent and substantive reporting by the Council to the general membership. And we must look for ways to make the Assembly itself more effective. It is ironic that for most of its existence, when the United Nations was not always deemed to be the appropriate forum for the resolution of major disputes, the Organization was for the most part adequately resourced. Yet today, when the demands for action by the United Nations have reached unprecedented levels, when ideological division no longer inhibits an effective United Nations role and when the approach to problem-solving at Security Council level is essentially cooperative, the Organization finds itself burdened with a grave and crippling financial crisis. The Secretary-General has told us that the Organization is living from hand to mouth. He warns us that the financial situation could soon prevent the United Nations from discharging its essential responsibilities and undermine its political will and practical capacity to undertake any new activities. And yet the simple truth is this: for every dollar that the United Nations spends on the instruments of peace, the world spends almost $2,000 on the weapons of war. It is simply not acceptable to call on the United Nations to undertake new responsibilities while declining or failing to provide the necessary resources. A significant improvement in the Organization’s finances is now an urgent priority. I appeal to all Member States in arrears, and especially those on the Security Council, to comply with their financial obligations under the Charter. This is a moral as well as a practical imperative. The impact of change is particularly apparent in the area of peace-keeping. In almost every crisis, on every continent, United Nations forces are deployed on increasingly varied and complex tasks. By the end of this year the numbers in the field may total 100,000. And individual operations are now very large: nearly 20,000 each in Cambodia and Somalia; almost 25,000 in former Yugoslavia. Ireland now participates in 10 of the 14 United Nations peace-keeping operations in the field. A significant proportion of our armed forces is at present engaged in United Nations peace-keeping duties. But, beyond the scale of the operations, the nature of the tasks undertaken by United Nations forces has changed also. The initial decision to intervene militarily in Somalia for humanitarian purposes and the subsequent decision to mandate the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM) to take enforcement action are new departures for the Organization. And they present new challenges for troop-contributing countries. In Ireland’s case we had to change our law to enable our forces to take part in the Chapter VII operation in Somalia. It is important for all of us - the United Nations, the troop contributors, and those whom we seek to help - to reflect carefully on our experiences and draw the lessons from the new large-scale operations in Cambodia, Somalia and Yugoslavia. It is evident that existing structures both at United Nations Headquarters and in the field have come under very considerable strain. The mandates of major United Nations operations are now multi-faceted. We need mechanisms that will allow such mandates to be carried through in a manner that is effective, transparent and humane. I want to mention two points in particular here today. 32 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The first is the imperative need to maintain peace - keeping and peace-enforcement operations within an overall political framework and to exploit every opportunity for reconciliation. Enforcement action, when it is undertaken - and I accept that it may be necessary - should be the minimum required and it should be carefully directed to achieving the political aims of the operation. For this reason, I believe that at the time the Security Council takes a decision to establish an operation, particularly one involving peace enforcement, it should pay special attention to the issues of command and control. Secondly, there is a need to improve military planning at United Nations Headquarters and to ensure that the best military advice and information is available to the Secretary-General in his conduct of peace-keeping operations. To this end, an effective planning unit is required. Thought should also be given to whether the Military Staff Committee, which is provided for in the Charter but which has never functioned effectively, could have a contribution to make. In Somalia, the overriding objective of the United Nations operation must be political reconciliation and national reconstruction. There have been outstanding successes. One year ago, several hundreds were dying each day from hunger and malnutrition. Today, as a result of the work of the Unified Task Force (UNITAF), UNOSOM and the non-governmental organizations, people are no longer dying from man-made famine. A year ago violence was widespread. Today almost all of Somalia is calm. The exception is south Mogadishu, where the efforts of UNOSOM have been continually frustrated and many, including 60 United Nations peace-keepers, have lost their lives. In pursuance of its overall aim of political reconciliation, the United Nations must continue its search for a peaceful resolution in Mogadishu, learning from and building on its success elsewhere in Somalia. Most of the conflicts that this Assembly will address in the coming weeks are marked by massive abuses of human rights - summary executions, torture, detention, rape, mutilation. And even outside of these open conflicts the dignity of the individual is frequently violated by authoritarian and repressive regimes. At Vienna in June, the World Conference on Human Rights sought to strengthen the protection of human rights worldwide. Most of us who attended that meeting came away feeling that progress had indeed been made. It is essential that the agreed Programme of Action be given the highest priority and acted on by this Assembly. A United Nations commissioner for human rights should be appointed. The resources devoted to human rights activities in the United Nations system should be doubled. The United Nations human rights machinery, especially in relation to the protection of women, should be strengthened. And we must make decisive progress on the establishment of an international criminal tribunal to prosecute persons responsible for violations of humanitarian law wherever they occur. The abuses of human rights in Yugoslavia have provoked a profound determination in the international community that those responsible must be brought to justice. The ad hoc approach, unavoidable in the case of Yugoslavia, points to the need for a permanent international criminal tribunal with an established jurisdiction and an identified body of applicable law. The General Assembly at this session should examine the valuable work done on this topic by the International Law Commission. We can take advantage of the changed international situation to pursue our work on disarmament and arms control. We must intensify our efforts to halt the spread of nuclear weapons. I am heartened by the decision of some nuclear States to maintain a moratorium on nuclear testing and I call on others to do the same. Our objective must be a comprehensive treaty banning nuclear testing forever. Ireland has proposed that the United Nations should elaborate a code of conduct for conventional arms transfers which would encourage States to exercise responsibility and restraint in their arms transfers and which would set out common principles to be observed in this area. We believe that, as the international community moves towards a closer understanding of its shared responsibility for international security in the framework of the United Nations, such a code would represent an important step forward in the area of arms control. Last year Ireland called for an agenda for development that would complement and stand alongside the Secretary-General’s 'Agenda for Peace'. We are pleased that such a report is now in preparation. Our vision of the future cannot ignore the images of deprivation and need we see every day from all too many parts of the world. The reality of this suffering is a test for all of us. The Irish Government is committed to doubling the percentage of gross national product devoted to official development aid in the period 1993 to 1997. Peace and development are not separable. Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 33 We must recognize what the Secretary-General has called the humanitarian imperative. The international community must be assured that the United Nations and its development agencies will respond quickly to emergencies as they occur. The creation within the Secretariat of a new Department of Humanitarian Affairs has been a useful step towards that end. The international community must look squarely at certain incontrovertible features of our shared existence on this planet: climate change, a possible doubling of the world’s population by the middle of the next century, pressures imposed by our patterns of production and consumption, great imbalances in the availability of technology and resources. In many of these areas, the Rio Conference and its Agenda 21 have identified the way ahead. I am pleased that the Commission on Sustainable Development and other organs provided for in Rio are off to a promising start. We must acknowledge that the issues we address under the auspices of this Assembly and those which arise in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and the Bretton Woods institutions cannot be separated. In all of these areas, our aim must be a peaceful, integrated international society in which our sense of the common good increasingly qualifies considerations of national power and immediate expediency. As the dramatic developments in the Israeli-Palestinian relationship and the equally historic changes in South Africa have shown, progress is possible even in the most obdurate of conflicts if the protagonists are willing to look towards a common future. Northern Ireland represents a challenge of similar dimensions to the British and Irish Governments and to the peoples of both islands. Some would say that the conflict is fundamentally incapable of resolution. I do not accept that, and I will not accept it. Like the vast majority of my compatriots, I yearn for peace on our island. I want to see a comprehensive settlement which will enable men, women and children to go about their daily lives in peace and without fear. All of us in both islands are paying the price of past political failures. We should not ask future generations to bear the cost of further failure. I have no illusions about the complexity of the issues. I know that there are no easy or quick solutions - no single step that can remove the necessity for a long and painstaking journey. But I believe that, with sufficient good will and determination, the Irish and British Governments and the leaders of the constitutional parties in Northern Ireland can lead the people they represent out of the stalemate which exists at present towards a peaceful and secure future. As I have said elsewhere, the pieces of the jigsaw puzzle are all to hand if only we can find the right way to fit them together. The Irish Government is ready to play its full part in this. We will bring to any resumed talks the resources of good will, flexibility and imagination which we believe all participants must display if a new agreement is to be achieved. It is painfully obvious that all traditional approaches have failed and that new thinking is urgently required. For our part, we are willing to look afresh at our own traditional assumptions and at our relationships with others to see if there are new approaches which can open a way forward. We are ready to accept the need for radical and innovative compromise as part of a new accommodation which will bring lasting peace and reconciliation to the island of Ireland. Compromise does not mean asking either of the two traditions in Northern Ireland to modify its fundamental beliefs or, indeed, to suppress its objectives. It does mean asking each tradition to recognize that the other deserves equal respect and must be accommodated on equal terms. It means accepting that diversity can be enriching rather than threatening and that both traditions in Ireland must find a way to share the island on a basis of partnership and trust. Peace and stability will not be found in any political system which is imposed, or which is rejected by a substantial part of the population who live within it. What we need in the island of Ireland is a collective will to rise above traditional suspicions and animosities and a readiness to look beyond areas of disagreement to areas where we can work together to mutual advantage. Peace is now the imperative, and the continuation of violence is the single greatest obstacle to the realization of our hopes. An end to violence would open up new possibilities and allow all of us to emerge from the shadow of a very troubled history. It would, at last, help to clear the way for compromise and negotiation, leading to an agreement which would achieve a fair and lasting accommodation between nationalism and unionism in Ireland. We must lift our sights 34 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session to the new horizons of possibility which developments in the Middle East and South Africa have opened for us. This is the objective of the Government which I represent. I believe we can have no higher objective. In addressing this Assembly for the first time, I am pleased to extend to you, Sir, the congratulations of the delegation of the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, which I have the honour to head, on your outstanding election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. In our view, your moral and intellectual qualities and your extensive experience in international affairs are clear guarantees of the success of our work. I assure you that my delegation is fully prepared to assist you as you undertake your noble mission. I should like to join those representatives who have congratulated your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, on his effective leadership of the Assembly during its forty-seventh session. Let me take this opportunity also to express a warm welcome to the new States Members of the Organization. The multifaceted action of the United Nations over the numerous years of its existence has given us a true appreciation of the institution’s major role, as well as of the worth of the men who, during that time, have borne the responsibility for it. This is why my delegation expresses satisfaction at seeing Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali at the head of the Organization. We pay a resounding tribute to him for his dedication and determination to work for peace and the well-being of mankind. Forty-eight years after its creation, and despite a particularly difficult international situation, our Organization is still struggling to discharge properly the lofty and onerous mission entrusted to it. Equally, with the passage of time, its activity has escalated and become more diversified. Unfortunately, we are today obliged to note that the United Nations is increasingly confronted by enormous financial difficulties, which hamper its proper functioning. The financial crisis that it is experiencing stems primarily from the crushing imbalance between its various tasks and its scanty financial means. Thus, in the area of peace-keeping, the United Nations is responsible for numerous rather costly operations, while, in several regions of the world, hotbeds of tension and increasing instability seem to presage other difficult situations that are likely to transcend the boundaries of the Organization’s ordinary or traditional role. The task is huge, and we must not remain passive in the face of such suffering. It is therefore up to all Member States to contribute effectively to securing an improvement in the Organization’s peace-keeping system. While, within the framework of the work of this forty- eighth session, we are still reviewing a multitude of problems to which we must find solutions, let us recognize that the session does have the advantage of being held at a time when, for the first time in more than 40 years, we are seeing encouraging and promising results with regard to the developments in respect of the problem of Palestine. The Government of the Comoros would like, through me, to congratulate the signatories of the Washington agreement. It provides grounds for hope that this mutual recognition and the autonomy of certain territories represent an unquestionable guarantee of the establishment of a sovereign and independent Palestinian State, so that this part of the world, which for so long has been disrupted by war, can finally experience peace and stability. We pay a well- deserved tribute to the Chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization for his perseverance in defending the rights of the brotherly Palestinian people, whose just struggle we have always supported. In the same context, my country has great hopes for the negotiations between the South African authorities and the representatives of the black majority. My country sincerely hopes that these negotiations will culminate in the establishment of a truly united, multiracial and democratic South African society. It is clear that action by the various United Nations authorities has made a considerable contribution to strengthening the credibility of our Organization and the confidence the international community has in it. On the other hand, the rebirth of democracy in Eastern Europe, the opening up of Africa to a multiparty system and the relaxation of tensions among the super-Powers are also factors which should give us hope for a better world. But how can we not be concerned or doubtful when in some parts of the world there are still hotbeds of tension and fratricidal wars? In fact, the deterioration of the situation in Somalia, with all its consequences, in particular the mass displacement of the population and the murder of those who are defending peace, calls for ever greater vigilance and solidarity on our part. It is time for the international community to take effective action with a view to the holding of a conference of national reconciliation to put an end to this war. It is also crucial that States and international organizations continue to render their valuable assistance to these peoples, who are in dire need. With regard to Africa, I am concerned about our neighbours in Mozambique, in Angola, in Liberia and in all of these countries where human dignity and conscience are being jeopardized, where, unfortunately, dialogue is yielding to force and violence. The Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros is launching a fraternal appeal to these countries to consider the consequences of these wars for the future of their peoples and of Africa as a whole, and hopes that reason will finally prevail. Moreover, we are still deeply concerned at the present situation in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The external aggression perpetrated against this independent and sovereign State requires that our Organization, and in particular the Security Council, the major organ responsible for the maintenance of peace, take the necessary action to save that country. We fully support the resolutions of the Security Council concerning this problem, in particular resolution 859 (1993), in which it called 'for an immediate cease-fire and cessation of hostilities throughout the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina as essential for achieving a just and equitable political solution to the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina through peaceful negotiations'. On the other hand, the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros is supporting the efforts of our Organization to find a lasting solution to the Korean problem. My country urges the parties involved to implement measures to facilitate the reunification of this country, whose people have suffered for so long from being divided. Environmental problems are a concern of the international community, which is aware of the adverse consequences of the destruction of the ozone layer and the deterioration of the ecological milieu. It is in this spirit that our States are adopting strategies and policies aimed at safeguarding the environment. Convinced that one cannot separate the environment from development, our Governments must establish procedures and devise national frameworks which will give priority to sustainable development, in accordance with the recommendations of the Rio Conference. Along these lines, the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros, with a view to combating the problems of pollution, deforestation and the destruction of natural species, has given priority in its development plan to the preservation of the environment and its natural resources. Another area to which we should devote specific interest is that of human rights. By the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in December 1948, the international community, through the General Assembly of our Organization, for the first time in the history of mankind, shouldered the permanent responsibility of publicizing and championing human rights. Today more than ever before, we continue to have confidence in our Organization, which has always known how to stress the concept of fundamental human rights and freedoms and has made ensuring them one of its fundamental goals. It is therefore important for the United Nations to give priority to human rights programmes. There is also a need, within the framework of national policy, to implement and create institutional conditions that would guarantee respect for human dignity. The World Conference on Human Rights, held recently in Vienna, Austria, allowed the international community to Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993 3 reaffirm its unswerving dedication to respect for inalienable human rights. However, it is our Organization that must see to the implementation of the Vienna recommendations. We cannot separate the concept of human rights from the concept of democracy, for we cannot conceive of a democracy that would ignore or fail to guarantee human rights and freedoms. This is why our Organization should show particular interest in the changes taking place throughout the world, changes which are, inter alia, reflected in the collapse of dictatorships and the emergence of democratic political regimes. The United Nations must encourage and support actions aimed at advancing the democratic process. As members are aware, the wind of freedom and democracy that has wafted through the world has spared no continent. Thus, in the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros, the time has come for democracy and a multiparty system. We have engaged in a revision of our Constitution in order to adapt it to the realities of today’s world, with the active participation of all national political movements. We are moving towards legislative and regional elections to give the country all the institutions required by a State of law. You will agree with me, Mr. President, that this transitional stage of our young democracy is difficult. We are, however, aware that it must be passed through in order to achieve a harmonization of the democratic process as a whole. The Government of the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, concerned for the well-being of its people, is sparing no effort to create conditions which promote respect for human dignity and the maintenance of political and social stability in the country. Such an undertaking requires the assistance of peace- and progress-loving countries and organizations, to help our country effectively manage these freedoms, and to place our young democracy on a solid foundation. We cannot close this political chapter without recalling another problem, a non-violent one, certainly but no less important: that of the Comorian island of Mayotte. This question will be the subject of a debate in the Assembly, as it is at each of our regular sessions. That is why I will spare the Assembly a list of the facts behind this thorny issue. But I express again the full readiness of the Government of His Excellency Mr. Said Mohamed Djohar and the Comorian people to give the highest priority to dialogue and concerted action to resolve this regrettable dispute which we have had with France since we attained our sovereignty. There is no need to emphasize that the new international political landscape at the end of the century makes the interdependence of peoples and the solidarity of nations the irreplaceable and only means by which we can guarantee the economic and social development of our States. Unfortunately, international economic relations are still marked by the bipolar attitude responsible for the growing gap between rich and poor countries. We must now change this attitude - an outcome of the cold war - as a result of which the rich have been becoming even richer and the poor even poorer, and create harmonious conditions for global economic relations. We believe in the ideals of peace and security, but we are firmly convinced that they cannot be fully achieved if famine, malnutrition, disease and natural disasters continue to be the lot of the majority of the States which make up the international community. The future of the developing countries continues to be a priority of the various specialized institutions of our Organization, but the failure of various development programmes and strategies initiated in our respective countries is no secret. That fact compels us to give thought together to ways and means to relaunch a different type of development, of which our Organization must be the catalyst. The advent of a new economic world order is more likely today than yesterday, despite a crisis that is weakening the financial Powers, de facto reducing their capacity to give development assistance. We understand the new obligations of the big Powers, faced with unemployment, reduced productivity and the need to support the new States born of the fragmentation of the eastern bloc. But it is up to them to give a new impetus to vertical cooperation, in order to enable the countries of the South to extricate themselves from chaos. In that spirit, the developing countries have indeed learned the lesson that they must rely on themselves first and foremost. This is why, from Africa to the Orient, structures are emerging whose objective is to assure regional economic integration. The establishment of the African Economic Community will meet Africa’s need for an instrument for functional cooperation which can harmonize development and cooperation between the States of this continent, the breadbasket of the world. For the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, cooperation with the developing countries is an essential element in such cooperative relations. My country is one of those which are convinced that South-South cooperation can 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session be an important factor in rebalancing world economic relations. In its continuous development efforts the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros is focusing on freeing and restructuring development support institutions. In the spirit of this impetus towards socio-economic recovery, we have agreed with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank on a structural adjustment programme whose success depends on the full and active support of the international community. As the century draws to a close, the world is experiencing profound changes in the ideological, political, economic, social, scientific and technical spheres. The problems it is facing require consideration at the global level from now on. International solidarity compels us to act in greater cooperation in managing world affairs. We have the instrument for this: the United Nations. But we are among those who believe that if it is to be more effective the Organization and its specialized agencies must be transformed to adapt to the tremendous democratic dynamism of the new international system. In order to give the United Nations the political power for real decision- making, the Security Council must genuinely represent the world as it is today. It is with genuine pleasure that we speak from this United Nations rostrum and join previous speakers in sincerely congratulating you, Sir. I do so on behalf of the people and the Government of Burundi and on our own behalf. It is in recognition of your distinguished qualities that the Assembly has chosen you to preside over its work at this session. We are convinced that your wisdom and your political and diplomatic experience will enable you to guide the work of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly in a masterly, successful way. We also congratulate the other members of the Bureau of the General Assembly. We wish also to pay a well-deserved tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the skill and vision with which he guided the work of the Assembly at its forty-seventh session. Further, we express our gratitude to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the vision with which he has guided the Organization and for his tireless efforts to ensure the maintenance of international peace and security. The Republic of Burundi warmly welcomes the countries that have recently joined the United Nations family; we welcome the representatives of the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Eritrea, the Principality of Monaco and the Principality of Andorra. The people and the Government of Burundi join the rest of the international community in conveying sincere condolences to the Government and the people of India on the earthquake that has struck their country and that has caused the death of some 20,000 people. We assure the people and the Government of India of my country’s sympathy and moral support in this harsh ordeal inflicted by Nature. The people of Burundi, through me, is honoured and pleased to send a message to the international community represented here in the General Assembly. That message, which is being delivered on the morrow of the victory of democracy in our land, is one of peace, friendship, fraternity and solidarity. The beginning of this century was marked by devastating wars that led to the crystallization and bipolarization of international relations. The ensuing cold war, with the two major ideological and military blocs in confrontation, was reflected in many countries by the establishment of totalitarian power. Africa, which was at the same time emerging from the long night of colonialism, found itself unwillingly involved in the dynamics of that rationale. Peoples who had theoretically been freed from the colonial yoke nevertheless found themselves, to their great consternation, confronted with authorities that had been imposed upon them or established by force, and that were devoid of any legitimacy, just like the colonial order that had theoretically been brought to an end. In that context the rights and freedoms of the human person were openly flouted. The State based on law became a mirage, the right to life and the growth of the human spirit a utopian ideal. In their concern to consolidate their power, which lacked any popular base, some leaders inflamed and exploited inherent differences based on ethnicity and regionalism, which they imbued with political significance. Our country did not escape that state of affairs. The past 30 years have been marked by ethnic upheavals that have traumatized our people. In truth, the history of the people of Burundi is replete with tragedies. Political forces have exploited ethnic differences with impunity and have fought to control the State for their own interests. Outright crimes against humanity have been committed by individuals and by organized groups, some of which have enjoyed the protection and blessing of the State, which lent itself to the perpetration of such base actions. That sowed mistrust and suspicion among the ethnic groups in our country, thus traumatizing the people and creating unease about the future. So violent did the tragedy become that there were those who wondered how Burundi would ever manage to emerge from the toils of the violence in which it had become enmeshed. Burundi’s recent political development demonstrates its people’s ability to shake off those toils and to rid themselves from their fears. The ideology of human rights and its corollary, democracy in the management of public affairs, have taken the place of violent, repressive and exclusionary measures to such a degree that the people of Burundi have gradually come to realize that in order to solve their problems they must turn to a democracy that transcends differences, divisions and hatreds. We made a choice. Today, we are more than ever convinced that that choice was a good one. The people of Burundi embarked upon this process, at first hesitant but confident, with of course the inevitable ups and downs, and they succeeded in holding free, just and open elections. Today, the people of Burundi are proud, proud of having managed to overcome the many difficulties and obstacles strewn on their path towards democracy and proud too of being able to take full control over their history in an open, just and equitable way. The date of 1 June 1993 will remain a memorable one in our country’s history. On that day, for the first time in Burundi’s history, free, pluralist and open elections were held, designed to give the country truly democratic institutions. The positive manner in which the various protagonists have accepted the people’s verdict demonstrates that the people of Burundi are henceforth convinced that the path of democracy - and especially in its electoral aspect, in which the people’s will is expressed and legitimacy conferred - is the only proper way to resolve the problems entailed in the access to and exercise of power. Further, the legislative elections of 29 June 1993 were to confirm the will of a people desirous of living henceforth in peace. We should like to take this opportunity to extend heartfelt thanks to all who, from near or far, supported our country in its march towards democracy. We have greatly appreciated the material, technological and financial support provided by friendly countries and international and intergovernmental organizations that have enabled us to organize in a suitable manner Burundi’s first free, pluralist elections. The democratic administration of a society we are now in the process of undertaking cannot be viewed as an end in itself. Rather, it is a means to consolidate peace, to strengthen confidence among the various components of our nation and to accelerate the economic, social and cultural development to which all men aspire. Today, therefore, the Government of Burundi is bending every effort to achieve the gradual elimination of all the obstacles that have paralysed or retarded the Burundi people’s drive towards growth and overall development. We are working towards this end, and we are convinced that with the support of the international community we can meet the challenge. Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993 3 It is at present our most heartfelt hope that the people of Burundi will henceforth be safe from ethnic confrontations. We want no more blood shed in ethnic confrontations anywhere in the land, in the homes, in the hills, in towns and provinces, in schools and barracks. Never again! That is the watchword of the whole of the people of Burundi. We also want the people of Burundi to accept their history as it is. Mistakes have naturally been made, and there are other serious problems that continue to weigh on our democratic process. Nevertheless, they must not obstruct or paralyse us. Setbacks and problems exist to be overcome. Mistakes must be recognized as such and corrected. That is one of the basic tenets for a new Burundi. Yes, we must accept our history the better to face the future. We want that future to be a safer and securer one for all. Thus, the Government we formed following the elections last June is an open Government. In it, we have brought together people from every ethnic group, from every region of the country and of different political persuasions. All those people from every social background and differing political persuasions are working together with might and main to ensure that the process of democratization in Burundi will be irreversible. We consider that to be the best way to reach our goal, namely, to reconcile the people of Burundi with themselves and with their State the better to commit themselves to the battle for their economic, social and cultural development. Guided by that will, the Government has just proposed, and the National Assembly has ratified, an amnesty law under which more than 5,000 of our compatriots - 70 per cent of our country’s prison population - are to regain their freedom and thereby take part in building a democratic Burundi, confident and more integral. We wish to tell the world that through that amnesty law the people of Burundi mean to make a new start towards a better development of their destiny and the installation of peace in the subregion. While granting amnesty to those who, at home or abroad, have derogated from the fundamental rights of the people of Burundi as a whole and of individual members of that people in particular, we want to accept our history without thereby becoming its prisoners. Through a national pardon, we want to establish a context of security for all those in Burundi who, in their hearts or in the eyes of the nation, are responsible for acts committed in the course of past tragedies. Indeed, given the tragic acts our people have known, sometimes the result of shared responsibilities but often arising out of imprecise causes, we must wipe the slate clean. We must view the future with greater clarity, confidence and serenity. That is a solid basis for domestic peace, but it can also contribute to the restoration and optimum consolidation of security and peace in our subregion. The happy outcome of democracy in our country has thus become an unprecedentedly powerful catalyst in the settlement of another thorny problem affecting our subregion. I refer to the question of refugees, of whom there are some 200,000. These compatriots who are victims of tragedies of the past three decades and who have been forced to stay in exile, seeking refuge in neighbouring countries here and there throughout the world, have had their hopes rekindled. For them - and they are perfectly right - the triumph of democracy has removed the essential reason for their leaving their country. Today they have chosen to return to their homeland, which welcomes them with open arms. Before talking about the conditions that will have to be met before these compatriots can be assured of a safe return, I should like first to discharge the duty of thanking all countries, particularly our neighbours Tanzania, Rwanda and Zaire, and all the international organizations, especially those in the United Nations system, and in particular the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), that for some 20 years have enabled them to continue to feel like human beings. The Government of Burundi must now continue this process by ensuring the happy return and the effective and dignified reintegration of these citizens into the country’s economic, social and cultural life. To succeed, we shall have to mobilize many material and financial resources to meet emergency needs and satisfy long-term requirements. We make an earnest appeal to the international community to provide such support as we engage in this highly humanitarian process. We are faced with a massive and spontaneous return of Burundi refugees from neighbouring and distant countries. We are honoured and filled with joy at the confidence and spontaneity of our compatriots. At the same time, lack of the means and the infrastructure that we need to cater for them causes us deep concern. We are now identifying in detail all the steps that will have to be taken if we are to organize, before next December, a conference to inform sponsors to help finance this large-scale operation. 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session In the meantime, we are using the modest means at our disposal, while relying on national solidarity and, especially, on the laudable intervention of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, to whom we again express our deep gratitude. Pending the establishment, in the receiving areas, of a medium-term plan for the gradual repatriation and reabsorption of these returnees into a global, integrated development programme, we have just published an emergency plan to deal with the arrival of 50,000 people between now and February 1994. The latter, because of the precariousness of their conditions, are returning right away. This will enable us, having secured the necessary means, to alleviate their suffering and to accord them the dignity to which they are entitled. In the economic field, our major concern is to ensure a just and appropriate link between human, natural and financial resources so that we may provide the goods and services to satisfy the constantly increasing needs of our population. Development of the rural sector will require special attention from the public authorities, given the fact that more than 90 per cent of our population live in the countryside. We want to modernize the rural economy, and the spirit of enterprise, self-improvement, research and creativity will play a very important part in the economic approach of the new era. A conference of donors to help finance Burundi’s sixth five-year economic and social development plan will be organized in the near future. We believe that the international community will give us its usual support and that the resources necessary for implementation of the plan will be forthcoming. Moreover, the Government of Burundi will pursue the structural adjustment programme, with the support of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Development of the private sector will be encouraged, and non-strategic public enterprises will be progressively privatized, either in terms of property or in terms of management. Within the framework of liberalization of the Burundi economy, the Government will reinforce the free-trade zone for the purpose of diversifying exports. We invite investors who are so inclined to come and operate in Burundi, where the current political and social environment, the free-trade zone and the investment code are very favourable to business. In the social and cultural field, we shall promote the work ethic and ingenuity and, thereby, commit ourselves to positive values, in keeping with our traditions and culture. As we have already pointed out, democracy in Burundi is a living reality that has to be consolidated. This new political situation will change relations between Burundi and its foreign partners. That is why, henceforth, my country’s foreign policy will be based on the following guiding principles: good-neighbourliness and effective cooperation; non-interference in the affairs of other States; the consolidation of peace through respect for and the promotion of the rights and freedoms of the human person; mutually advantageous international cooperation based on interdependence and solidarity between peoples and nations; regional integration against the background of the emergence of free-trade zones in which there is no place for selfish national purposes; and, finally, integration of the Burundi economy into the world economy. We believe that respect for these principles will not only strengthen the determination of the Government of our country to implement a foreign policy in keeping with the demands of its domestic policy but also foster harmonious relations with our foreign partners. We realize that, without development, there can be no healthy democracy. Democratization is therefore a continuing process, a process that never ends - to the extent that it is not enough to create or reform political institutions; that it is especially necessary to resolve substantial problems, particularly those related to health, nutrition, education, housing and people’s general well-being. Solutions must be found for these problems, but at the same time we must confront challenges linked to them - for example, population growth, the steady drop in the prices of raw materials, the poor performance of our economies, the weight of external debt, natural disasters and endemic disease, especially malaria and AIDS, which have become a real scourge, principally in Africa. The survival of democracy on our continent will depend on our achieving a just balance in international economic relations. The security and stability that are indispensable if sound democracy is to be guaranteed will remain under threat so long as the problems of debt and hunger - in a word: development - are not attacked head on. The international community would therefore be failing in its duty were it to permit the gap between the prosperous countries of the North and the poor countries of the South to Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993 5 remain indefinitely. Thus, we appreciate the various initiatives to reduce the burden of foreign debt on the developing countries. We believe that economic recovery in Africa will be achieved, in particular, when external debt is substantially cancelled and additional financial resources provided. Is it right that financial flows from the South to the North should be greater than those from the North to the South, as is the case today? This is a bitter reality, which requires of us profound changes. Thus, the United Nations must do all in its power to rethink cooperation machinery, with a view to coming up with a solution that will reverse the tendency towards the impoverishment of Africa in particular. Despite the problems we have just mentioned, we must not allow ourselves to be discouraged. Our efforts at democracy and development go hand in hand with a sincere search for regional solidarity, in the first place, and then for international solidarity. We know full well that, while imposed choices are intolerable, it would be an aberration if we were to fail to act together. It is by combining and harmonizing their forces that States can make the best of their advantages. Burundi must not stand aside from this movement towards solidarity. In our subregion, Burundi will commit itself to the promotion of various types of cooperation with its neighbours. We intend to strengthen existing instruments in the context of that cooperation, such as the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries, the Kagera River Basin Organization and the Preferential Trade Area, with a view to the gradual establishment of a free-trade zone. The Government of Burundi will spare no effort to spark subregional cooperation aimed at increased well-being for our peoples. It is high time that we in the third world engaged in some self-examination. It is high time that we grew out of looking only outwards. We must explore our own capacity for self-development: development directed at ourselves and maintained by ourselves. We must learn to plan and manage better. Above all, we must learn to work better, to work profitably: all of us, from the humblest peasant to the loftiest dignitary. Africa is overflowing with wasted or unexploited potential. We must contemplate a development for ourselves, a development adapted to our needs and making use of our assets. International solidarity can be effective only in the radically new context where we take responsibility for ourselves and where exchanges are mutually advantageous. The world is radically changing. Peoples aspire to greater freedom and dignity. Mankind needs to make enormous efforts to overcome the obstacles on its path: poverty, war, famine, sickness, the destruction of the environment, overpopulation. These are all challenges facing our planet. The detente and the will for peace that characterize relations between the major Powers following the cold war can make it possible to achieve global security, understanding and cooperation; they affect the need for political settlements of the conflicts that have broken out in many parts of the world. Burundi advocates dialogue and joint efforts to end disputes, and we can only welcome these positive developments in international relations. But internationally speaking we are at the turning point between two eras. The era of the cold war and a bipolar world has ended. But today the world is newly assailed, and the inevitable seismic shock waves are shaking the global village. Peoples and nations everywhere are seeking new guidelines for building the new world order that has been so late in coming. Ancient rivalries we thought had been overcome are again rising to the surface and are disturbing balances achieved at great cost. On the threshold of the twenty-first century, Europe has been jolted by separatist nationalism. The plan to build a communal supranational political entity is not exempt from the harsh test posed by the eruptions taking place in the multinational States of the long-standing democracies. The situation in the former Yugoslavia speaks unfortunate volumes in this regard. Africa is being undermined by areas of disturbing destruction. It has been all the more marginalized since the end of the division of the world into two blocs because it is no longer a bargaining chip. Where else in the world are there so many countries without State authority, without social organization? Where else are there so many fratricidal wars with no solution in view? Somalia, Liberia, Angola, Mozambique and Rwanda are all loci of tension where instability threatens Africa as a whole, as well as world peace. Burundi firmly supports the resolution of conflicts in the framework of regional and subregional organizations. Hence, we praise the efforts of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and subregional organizations in Africa to arbitrate conflicts and help the parties to find negotiated solutions to their disputes. 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session In connection with the prevention of conflicts and with confidence- and security-building among the States of our subregion, we have established a permanent consultative committee on security questions in Central Africa, with the cooperation of the United Nations. In the committee meetings already held, a common determination has emerged to establish a confidence-building machinery, and to limit weapons in order to benefit the development and well-being of the peoples of the subregion. Moreover, Burundi welcomes United Nations action, which despite many difficulties continues to play a role and to achieve success. A recent example is that of Cambodia, where a Government of National Unity has just been formed after a long process carried out under United Nations supervision. The United Nations is doing all it can to restore order in Angola, Somalia and the former Yugoslavia. We urge the United Nations to proceed on this path. We hail the historic agreement recently signed at Washington between the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. This development is an important milestone in the settlement of the Palestinian problem. Burundi attaches great significance to this event, which without question will set its stamp on the end of the century. Closer to home, in Rwanda, Burundi hails and supports action taken by the United Nations in cooperation with the Organization of African Unity to guarantee our Rwandese brethren a climate favouring genuine national reconciliation. The deployment of a neutral international force, as requested by the two parties, should be arranged as quickly as possible. Such a force is among the prerequisites for the consolidation of peace in Rwanda, and hence throughout the subregion - especially in Burundi, where similarities in ethnic, linguistic and cultural matters place us in a delicate position with respect to the Rwandese political conflict. Burundi also welcomes the positive developments in the situation in southern Africa. Negotiations under way among the various political players in South Africa have already produced encouraging results that are strengthening mutual trust. The Government of Burundi was pleased by the decision of the Conference for a Democratic South Africa (CODESA) recognizing that Walvis Bay and the surrounding area belong to Namibia. That decision marks the total independence of Namibia and is in keeping with the consolidation of peace in the region. That is true also of the decision in South Africa to set up a Transitional Executive Council open to all political groups; this will lead to elections next year. Burundi enthusiastically welcomes the recent events in South Africa that enabled the historic leader of the African National Congress of South Africa (ANC), Mr. Nelson Mandela, to call for the lifting of economic sanctions against his country. Burundi considers that those events are the culmination of the first phase of a process that will lead to the emergence in South Africa of a democratic regime free of racial discrimination. Burundi hopes that the Transitional Executive Council will be able to complete negotiations on the transition to democracy. That would open new prospects not only for southern Africa but also for the entire continent, which in recent years has followed with special attention the obstacles preventing all the daughters and sons of Africa from enjoying their national rights, thus compromising the entire network of mutually advantageous relations that could be developed between South Africa and the rest of the continent. Concerning the difficulties facing our Organization, it is an open secret that we are facing financial adjustment problems. The number of peace-keeping operations, the frequency of special missions, the diversity and the complexity of prevailing situations all call for greater responsibility in the payment of assessments due the Organization. Burundi also encourages the current restructuring of the United Nations system, which will allow it to measure up to the numerous new tasks awaiting it and enable it to have an image which is a true mirror of the present world. Our country praises the exceptional courage and selfdenial demonstrated by the staff of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. It goes without saying that refugees and displaced persons endure the most painful sufferings because of conflicts. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees constantly gives them hope by providing them with the basic necessities. Burundi, as a country that has been sheltering refugees but that also has citizens of its own living in exile, can testify today to its convictions and achievements on the question of refugees. We are convinced that only the repatriation and reinstallation of refugees and displaced persons can remedy the problem, which has become worldwide in scope and difficult to overcome. We would be remiss not to congratulate the non-governmental organizations of the world, which, through Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993 7 their actions, have lessened the suffering of millions of men, women and children in distress. In order to be lasting and irreversible, the democratic reforms chosen by our populations must have international support, because, indeed, democracy against a backdrop of social unrest, unemployment and poverty runs the risk of being just a caricature. From this rostrum, in the same way that we called on the international community to witness our democratic institutions, we would like to ask it to support our efforts through international cooperation based on interdependence and solidarity among peoples and nations. The economic situation in the world today constitutes for us a subject of deep concern. The developed countries have been hit by a recession, and it is not easy to overcome it. After years of more or less favourable economic conditions, growth in their economies is now slowing down. Short-term projections are not very encouraging either. Unemployment has reached disturbing proportions, thereby causing a resurgence here and there of xenophobia and micronationalism, victims of which are for the most part foreigners who have become true scapegoats for the ills that are distressing the societies in the developed countries. The developing world is the most severely affected in terms of the well-being of its population. While South-East Asia and Latin America have positive economic indicators, we must note that Africa is going through a difficult period and that the stakes are high. The drop in export earnings, linked to the undervaluing of raw materials, weighs heavily upon the external debt that today so hinders the freedom of action of most African countries. The outlook for recovery and growth in the short term will likely remain bleak for the African continent. We would like to recall, however, that there have been delays in the implementation of the New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, adopted by the General Assembly two years ago. Similarly, progress achieved in implementing the New Agenda for the 1990s in favour of the least-developed countries is still not up to the expectations of our populations. The International Conference on African Development is currently being held in Tokyo. We sincerely thank the organizers of that meeting, especially the Government of Japan. We wish that Conference success, and we also hope that it will lead to concrete commitments on the part of the donors to help us recover and to develop on the basis of our own needs and priorities. Burundi is represented in Tokyo at a high level, and it will make its contribution to achieving the goals of that Conference. Obstacles to healthy international economic cooperation are still numerous and of many kinds. The external debt crisis remains a major hindrance to the recovery of our economies. The main creditors must make greater efforts to ease the weight of this debt, the servicing of which is a heavy burden on the meagre export earnings of our developing countries. At this time, we would like to express our deep gratitude to friendly countries which have already undertaken measures - or are in the process of so doing - to reduce or cancel the debt which we owe them. We ask them to take relevant measures to give a strong boost to development financing, the drying up of which concerns us. In this regard, Burundi places great hope in traditional sources of financing, the funds for which have been increased. But we also place great hopes in the Global Environment Facility. Our delegation would like from this rostrum to repeat the need for rapid conclusion to the negotiations on the restructuring of that fund so that it may reflect its true world calling with regard to its composition and to transparent management and democratic management in its functioning. Similarly, it is also important for the Commission on Sustainable Development to move from rhetoric to an operational phase. The series of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) negotiations ought to have been concluded in 1991, but they continue to run up against a number of disagreements which are causing major concern in the world economy, in particular with respect to the future of the multilateral trading system. We urgently appeal to the principal protagonists to show political will sufficient to bring about a favourable ending to the Uruguay Round. The international community would in no way benefit from a trade war. There would be no winner and no loser in that war. Each year the United Nations enjoys greater participation at the level of Heads of State and Government. This is due to the fact that they firmly believe in the irreplaceable role of this Organization in respect of the balance and functioning of the world. We firmly believe in this Organization, and therefore we permit ourselves the liberty of hoping for the promotion of international cooperation which takes account of the diversity of each country and which is committed to complementary actions with shared and fully assumed responsibility. 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The United Nations indeed is an Organization of powerful countries and weaker countries. Here, therefore, we find the principles of justice, transparency and solidarity in international affairs as something which must be respected, so that no State need feel excluded or bullied because of its size. Rather, each State should feel protected against insecurity and arbitrariness, against hunger, against poverty, against epidemics of all kinds. It is true, and we strongly emphasize this, that the weaker countries must not always put forward their weakness as a pretext to demand or to call for protection or assistance from the international community. They too must take charge of their own destinies. They must organize themselves in such a way that the United Nations or other organizations would intervene only to give them support for a self-centred and self-supported development programme. It is our deepest wish that this world Organization that we share would continue to pursue its ideals and to achieve its goals. We would wish that international solidarity might be a genuine reality and that the relations among States might henceforth be based on a more just and more equitable economic and political order. It is our hope to see our Organization help the poorest populations on our planet avoid hunger, poverty and wars. Long live the United Nations! Long live international solidarity! Allow me, Sir, to offer you, and the Republic of Guyana, sincere congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. This session is taking place at a moment of world history which everyone agrees to be exceptional, so it is particularly important that it be as successful as possible. The fact that you are guiding its work encourages me to hope that it will be so. Let me also take this opportunity to express my gratitude for the contribution of the former Foreign Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, as President of the Assembly at its forty-seventh session. The very presence of Slovenia as an independent State and a Member of the United Nations is adequate testimony to the fact that the world has fundamentally changed. Together with a series of other countries that are either newly founded or have disengaged themselves from the shackles of limited sovereignty - or both simultaneously - Slovenia was not, of course, only an object of those changes, but a protagonist in them. The motive force for these changes was the democratic aspirations of nations, their democratic movements and prominent individuals from all spheres of social life. Many of the basic principles of the United Nations Charter, especially the principle of respect for human rights, motivated the democratic movements in their struggle for political and economic change. We should not forget that fact today as we watch the processes under way in the part of the world formerly known as the East. The tragic events which we perceive as having resulted from those very changes should not blur the memories of the movement for the freedom and dignity of men and women as individuals and as members of historically, culturally and linguistically defined entities. The difficulties faced by the new democracies were expected. Yet they are strengthening democratic institutions and the effectiveness of democratic mechanisms. On the other hand, in another - the smaller -part of the East, there is an orgy of destructive violence caused by inconceivable hatred. The old terminology, transferred to the notion of 'countries of the former East', obstructs a real understanding of current events in the part of the world to which it refers. Ideological notions should be replaced by terminology that respects the cultural and historical characteristics of individual regions, which in recent history all known politics and ideologies have tried to obliterate. The former socialist countries that earlier on had developed democracy movements are now experiencing secure democratic development. On the other hand, in those countries with totalitarian regimes that were suddenly confronted with the end of the bipolar world and where democratic movements were barely incipient, the ensuing ideological vacuum led to nationalism accompanied by expansionism and grave violations of human rights and of the rights of minorities. Former Yugoslavia, a typical multi- ethnic State, a federation composed of six different territorially defined members, experienced the consequences of these distinctions within its former borders, and for that reason could not survive. Every region has its own particular characteristics. Respecting them would to a great extent facilitate stabilization and the prospects of peaceful development on the basis of multilateral cooperation. It is not just for Europe in the wider sense that this is valid, although it is true that the processes of change are most pronounced in this region, for better or for worse. The changes I am referring to put seriously to the test most of the principles of international cooperation and most of the mechanisms created to enhance it. The right to self-determination is a case in point. This right, on the one hand, was denied to some nations while on the other hand the misuse of the same Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 11 principle for carrying out aggressive expansionism and land-grabs has been tolerated. The role of the United Nations has greatly increased since the end of the cold war, and the Organization is confronted with a number of issues that have to be tackled in a new way commensurate to the new atmosphere. Now it is more or less clear to everybody that we cannot do without new concepts and new mechanisms within this Organization to enable it to react in accordance with the requirements of the time. It is of crucial importance to strengthen human rights and democracy within countries and to reflect this equally in their interrelations. There are great expectations that the United Nations will face these issues and will be able to adapt itself efficiently. In order to do this the General Assembly should make proposals in this regard. Let me mention some of the fields that these proposals could embrace. International law needs a further evolution of substantive provisions and consensual mechanisms for their implementation. The principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of States should be reaffirmed, though it should be sensibly qualified by adequate internationally defined standards. International cooperation and the interdependence of all States are continuously diminishing the scope of matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of States, while the scope of legitimate international action is being expanded. In this context there appears to be an opportunity for further protection of human rights, the rights of ethnic minorities and the environment. The Conference on Human Rights which took place in Vienna last June confirmed global standards of respect for and protection of human rights and recommended the establishment of a high commissioner for human rights. Slovenia intends to submit during this session proposals for enhancing the activities of the United Nations in the field of human rights, strengthening the Centre for Human Rights and the establishment of a high commissioner for human rights. Economic cooperation is of particular importance. Cooperation in the framework of a series of existing international organizations and integrations must be seen in the context of its extension to new members. Agreements on economic cooperation between members and non-members of trading blocs are already being concluded, although sometimes too slowly. In any case, it is important that these associations should not close the door to the new democracies, since this could greatly impede the development of market economies in the new democracies at the very start. It is to be hoped that regional Economic Commissions, specialized agencies of the United Nations and international financial institutions will use their influence in order to help remove obstacles. At the Earth Summit in Rio last year we took part in the efforts for closer international cooperation on the environment. We will render all possible support to the United Nations to achieve the aims of the Rio Conference, including sustainable development, and to simultaneously detect new problems in this field. Of course, success will elude us if there is no adequate supervision or sanctions. European security since the end of the cold war has acquired different faces, and new countries have entered the European scene. Some military arrangements with purported defence aims have disbanded, and a number of countries are looking for new arrangements to safeguard their security. This represents an opportunity that should not be lost. Europe should be able to fill the security vacuum with democratic, forward-looking and adequate security arrangements for all, the more so since it is the first time in history that security is not bound to increased defence spending. This is encouraging. On the other hand, we are facing the danger of new outbreaks in different regions. This situation, more than anything else, requires preventive diplomacy, which should, by its very nature, be a matter of coordination for the United Nations, whose views should be formed in the General Assembly and the Security Council. Existing security associations, such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) and the Western European Union (WEU) should be systematically extended, and care should be taken to see that there is coordination between them and decision-making institutions of the United Nations. The agreement between the United Nations and the CSCE signed in May this year is encouraging from this point of view. It may be useful to seriously consider creating forces for rapid action, wherever timely action firmly authorized by the Security Council could prevent a crisis. During the last two years Slovenia has radically and unilaterally restricted its own military potential. More than half of the military facilities of the former Yugoslav army on Slovenian territory have been committed to civilian needs. However, the Republic of Slovenia remains subject to the arms embargo which the Security Council imposed on the former Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, this measure did not produce the desired effect in other parts of the former Yugoslavia; on the contrary, it has prevented the victims of aggression from effectively defending themselves. It is our 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session view that it is high time the Security Council reconsidered this measure and adjusted it to realities. I am sure that I am not alone in the view that all the new dilemmas that the world is facing also require reform of the structures and mechanisms of the United Nations. The General Assembly should more fully utilize its own competence in this sense for dealing with situations and take steps to settle international relations matters. The Security Council, in view of the new circumstances in the world and the nature of current problems, would appear to need some modification so as to be able to react more flexibly and effectively. It would be wise to increase its membership appropriately to make it more representative and to strengthen its responsibility to United Nations Member States through the General Assembly. Further, strengthening the professional competence of the Secretariat could be envisaged, thereby improving conditions for the effective operation of the Secretary-General. The current state of the world, in which we are simultaneously confronted with possible dangerous consequences of otherwise welcome changes and with the well-known mounting problems of developing countries, of course demands increased efficiency of existing and perhaps new mechanisms. This means that it will also be impossible to avoid the question of settling the regular financing of the United Nations. In closing I must unfortunately also touch on a matter that has already disturbed and concerned the international community for far too long: the crisis in some parts of the former Yugoslavia. Slovenia, despite being near the regions of armed conflict in Croatia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, has not been directly involved in the problems that have been the cause of armed conflict for the last two years. This does not, of course, mean that people of Slovenia and the Slovene Government are indifferent. The Republic of Slovenia is respecting sanctions and is cooperating in all efforts by the international community to bring peace to these countries. We have submitted proposals in order to alleviate the crisis, find a political solution and cut short the war and suffering. Unfortunately, the war still rages on. We are constantly reminded of this by the presence of 70,000 refugees living in Slovenia. Caring for them is no small burden for the 2 million inhabitants of Slovenia, even though we have the cooperation of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. However, international aid for refugees is decreasing. In our view, it is crucial to abide by all the principles on which the international order after the end of cold war should be based. This would encourage the newly founded Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to follow these principles and, like other States founded on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, to seek membership in the United Nations in accordance with the Charter. The political and economic interests of all members of the former Yugoslavia can begin to be met only through negotiations, on an equal legal footing, on the succession of the former Yugoslavia. Slovenia supports, and will continue to support, all initiatives to create a better world that provides adequate prospects for the coming generations - a world based on the mutual interests of the entire international community, without the horrors of war, poverty and social distress, a world in which human rights and the dignity of every individual are standards respected by all Governments. I wish the General Assembly every success at the current session in its work towards this goal. Before commencing my address, I would like to express, on behalf of my nation and myself, my sincere sympathy with the people of India on this day of great tragedy. Let me convey to you, Mr. President, my congratulations on your election to the presidency of the United Nations General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. Your election is a fitting tribute to your personal and professional qualities, and also to your country, the Republic of Guyana. As an Estonian, I have a special empathy with your homeland: much like Estonia, your country was liberated from colonial dependence and became a Member State of the United Nations. Like Estonia, your country remembers that independence is the decisive factor which permits small countries to share with great Powers equal responsibility for creating a better world, towards which all of us, seated here in this Hall, are striving. To your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, I express my recognition for his proficiency in chairing the forty-seventh session. We also express our deep gratitude to Mr. Ganev for visiting Estonia and her sister States Latvia and Lithuania, and for his efforts to apply the moral authority of the United Nations towards removing the remaining vestiges of colonialism from the Baltic States. To our neighbour in the General Assembly, the State of Eritrea, I express my sincerest welcome and congratulations on its finally joining the family of nations. I would, however, like to take this opportunity to extend especially warm thanks to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has given the United Nations and the whole world new hope through his strong moral conviction that we need not passively wait for conflicts to arise, but that conflicts should be prevented from arising; that the United Nations is, in the first place, an architect, whose building must not be allowed to be engulfed in flames; that the Organization is only secondarily a fire- fighter who rushes to extinguish fires still burning from the past. This is so even and perhaps especially when, metaphorically speaking, it happens that only a poor man’s cowshed has caught fire - for after all, that was enough to burn down all of Chicago. Let me express my appreciation and gratitude for Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali’s radiant moral sense of responsibility and for the steadfastness with which he has defended the principle of preventive diplomacy. As a small State, Estonia well understands and desires to support the Secretary-General fully in his defence of the purposes and principles of the United Nations and in the implementation of preventive diplomacy. Three years ago, in 1990, I visited the New York meeting of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe as a foreign minister whose entry into the conference room was strictly prohibited. I was interviewed by television journalists in front of United Nations Headquarters, as chance had it. I stated then that the next time I would be here it would be for the raising of the Estonian flag. The journalists did not even attempt to hide their polite sympathy nor their desire to bring the interview quickly to an end. Did they even attempt to present such an 'unrealistic' interview on their television programme? One year later, in September 1991, I watched the raising of the Estonian flag on a United Nations flagpole and concluded that my mission had been completed. Today I am here to tell the Assembly, and perhaps also those sympathetic journalists, that my work as the first democratically elected post-war Estonian President has only just begun. Today my words are infused with self-confidence and hope. Estonia has been and is once again a State; Estonia has re-established its place under the sun. In this sense we share common attributes, experiences and goals with the vast majority of States represented here today. The majority of the States Members of the Assembly are only slightly larger or slightly smaller than Estonia, with its 47,000 square kilometres and 1.5 million inhabitants living on the shores of the Baltic Sea. Estonia was robbed of its independence and forced to be the colonial subject of an imperial Power, as was the case with the majority of the Members here today. Just as they did, so have we restored our independence at the cost of untold suffering. For Estonia, as for most of the Members here, this work is still incomplete. The United Nations General Assembly is the best place for uniting our forces, so that we can work together. This however requires that the Second World War finally end for Estonia. For the Second World War is still continuing in Estonia in a rather peculiar way, because the foreign armed forces which occupied Estonia in 1940 still remain on our territory, regardless of General Assembly resolution 47/21. Estonia has for two years patiently conducted negotiations on the withdrawal of these forces, but without positive results. Of course, we were aware that behind this rigid position stood the Soviet nomenklatura and the Russian so-called parliament, which acted on the basis of the Brezhnevite Soviet so-called constitution and whose goal was to restore the Soviet Union in a modernized form. President Yeltsin was a prisoner of this imperialistically minded parliament. For this reason, we consider the present moment especially opportune for President Yeltsin to strengthen the world’s confidence in democracy by withdrawing the remaining armed forces from Estonia and Latvia and by signing international agreements to this effect. This would guarantee stability and security for the Baltic region, which is an inseparable part of Europe’s Nordic region - and that region, in turn, is an inseparable part of Europe. In my correspondence with President Yeltsin I have emphasized my readiness to meet him in the nearest future. I would be grateful to the General Assembly, to the Security Council and to Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali if, with all their collective moral authority, they would help us rapidly to cut this Gordian knot. This is, after all, not only a problem for Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania: with this effort they would also be supporting the democratization of Russia. With the implementation of preventive diplomacy, they would be removing a potential source of conflict and would thereby strengthen the prestige of the United Nations itself. And last, but not least, by implementing international law equally in the interests of great Powers and of small States they would give back to all of us the hope that, even in terms of realpolitik, justice is singular and indivisible. The United Nations could mandate such a mission, to be led by an authoritative European politician, one in whom both Russia and the Baltic States could feel equally confident. The time is ripe for action. The rapid preparation of an international agreement is in the interests of both sides. When two years of negotiations conducted between a great Power and a small State remain unproductive, it is a sign of danger. Preventive diplomacy consists in the ability to recognize danger signals at an early stage and resolve them in a lightning-rod fashion. This is our first problem and our primary task. At different stages, two different arguments were used in stalling and detouring the negotiations. First, the Russian side claimed it would be unable to find housing for forces withdrawn from the Baltic States. From a legal standpoint, this argument lacks any content whatsoever. The stationing of foreign forces on the territory of a sovereign State against the express will of that State and its people is in contradiction with international law and cannot be an item Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 3 for negotiation. At the same time, I would like to repeat again that Estonia is ready, together with its Nordic neighbours and other partners, and to the extent that its resources permit, to assist in the solution of this essentially humanitarian problem. We are grateful to our friends, who have promised housing construction aid in excess of $200 million, and we are prepared, with the help of these partners, to mobilize our construction industry towards this end. We have on several occasions publicly repeated and confirmed this readiness to our Russian partner. The second argument for the maintenance of foreign armed forces and their installation on the territory of the Baltic States is in a curious way linked to human rights. According to this line of thinking, which has been promulgated primarily in the Western media, the continued presence of ex-Soviet armed forces in the Baltic States is required for the defence of the human rights of the Russians residing there. However, the Russian residents of Estonia have never supported this argument, since they have not wished to become pawns in a political game. In this connection, I should like to take the opportunity to thank you, Mr. President, and you, Mr. Secretary- General, for the assistance of the United Nations. The Republic of Estonia had already enunciated, during the time of the League of Nations, and now it does so even more clearly, the basic principle that human rights are not the 'internal affair' of any State. For this reason, on the question of human rights in Estonia we turned for expert opinions and advice not only to the United Nations, but also to the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe and the Nordic Council. Thus, I can confirm that not one of the 15 missions invited by Estonia to inspect the situation firsthand has found human rights violations in Estonia. This has also been emphasized by many speakers during this General Assembly session. It was also, I am happy to note, emphasized by President Clinton in our recent meeting. I am disappointed that the idea of human rights - which, for Estonia, is self-evident and sacrosanct, and for the lack of which Estonians themselves, during five decades of Communist totalitarianism, had to pay with the loss of their pride, their freedom and their blood in Soviet and Nazi concentration camps - has been cynically exploited. The Republic of Estonia was the first State in the world to guarantee Jews and other minorities, as early as 1925, the right to cultural autonomy. Estonia will never stand idly by while anyone tries to manipulate human rights. For this reason, Estonia supports the creation of the post of a United Nations high commissioner for human rights and the expansion of the United Nations budget earmarked for the defence of human rights. We wish to work to defend the human rights of all indigenous peoples. We defended the rights of some Siberian peoples during the decades of Soviet totalitarianism, although we had to do it alone and quietly. Now we intend to join forces and to do it, with the help of the United Nations, publicly. I like to speak of the future in optimistic terms on the assumption that we are capable of finding resolutions to our pessimistic present, or to be more precise, that we are capable of applying these resolutions, since they are already outlined in Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali’s report 'An Agenda for Peace' (A/47/277). Allow me, Mr. Secretary- General, to thank you wholeheartedly for the clear analysis and sober recommendations on the implementation of such key concepts as preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-keeping. The tragedy in Yugoslavia has reconfirmed the fact that fire-fighting is much more difficult than fire-prevention. This lesson, which is written in the Torah, the Bible and the Koran, is, thanks to the Secretary- General, now slowly penetrating the consciousness of international organizations. Preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-keeping can be a real hope for the United Nations on the condition that we learn to recognize danger, where and when it becomes manifest. However, in a potential zone of conflict, peace-keeping must be strictly neutral. We must remember the proverb that 'You should not let a fox mind the henhouse', that peace-keeping in a particular area cannot be turned over to those parties that have an obvious interest in the outcome of a conflict. Estonia supports the principles of democracy, the inviolability of borders and non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries, principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter and in other international agreements. Consequently, we were disturbed - as, I am sure, many representatives were - by the suggestion of one national representative that the troops of one country should be allowed to intervene up to the borders of a State that no longer exists. I do not have in mind the former Austro-Hungarian Empire. 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Estonia can only support a position whereby the choice of peace-keeping forces by the Security Council meets the approval of broad international opinion. On this condition, Estonia also feels a moral responsibility to participate in international peace-keeping according to its capabilities, as well as in other related activities. This brings me to the consolidation of democracy and the free market economy in Estonia after 50 years of an absurd colonial command economy. Estonia has already been successful, but, together with other Members of the Organization, we could be even more successful. Democracy and the free market economy are interconnected, because they presuppose the right and the responsibility to freely choose. The former Soviet Union spent more money on repressing free thought than it ever did on the creation of a nuclear arsenal. The murder of freedom and the birth of aggression are two sides of the same coin. The first enemy of every totalitarian regime is the domestic enemy, and its first object of attack is free thought. Everyone present knows Adam Michnik’s wonderful metaphor about how easy it is to make fish soup from an aquarium, but how difficult it is to make an aquarium from fish soup. The main resource from which we have drawn the energy for the transformation of Estonia’s economy has been the idealism of the Estonian people. This is a large resource, but it is not endless. I want to prevent exhaustion from setting in, exhaustion which could be followed by political apathy and thereby by a desire to be free both of rights and obligations. The replacement of a command economy by a market economy is a disintegrative process both at the State and individual level as long as the market has not started working. Once the market is working, it works for economic and political integration. Therefore, Estonia is more interested in trade, not aid, and therefore we work actively to keep and expand our free trade agreements through negotiations with Brussels. My aim has been to suggest that the international community has gained new members - the countries in transition. Here the question arises whether the United Nations has realized our special possibilities and our special needs. Estonia does not belong in either the first, second or third world. Do we really need a fourth world, or do we need the ability to react more sensitively to a world which is in constant dynamic change? I offer as an example an issue that is as unpleasant to the Assembly as it is to me: the division by 15 of the financial commitments of the former Soviet Union, including its United Nations assessment. Estonia has stated repeatedly, and I do not hesitate to state here again, that we cannot and we will not accept this, as we were never legally part of the Soviet Union. Times have changed; our world community must realize this. We also feel a responsibility to assist others as we have been assisted during the past few years. While Estonia is still reeling from the disastrous consequences of a 50-year occupation, we do have well-educated specialists who could be of service to the United Nations in parts of the world where their skills would be welcome. And I should like to offer the experience we have gained in starting up a country and in creating a new, stable currency. Allow me to close with some very personal comments. The United Nations is approaching its fiftieth anniversary. The post-war world is approaching its fiftieth anniversary. The United Nations is acting on the basis of an unaltered Charter. But, as I mentioned above, the world has been altered totally. This ever-increasing contrast is most strongly felt by some of the most sensitive United Nations Members, the majority, the small States. I believe that small States have the obligation to redefine the international order. The large nations have the larger obligations, the small States the larger possibilities. This is not a contradiction, but a balance. After all, an Inuit kayak can change its course immediately, while a supertanker needs perilously much time and space to do so. The best place to redefine the world order is the General Assembly of the United Nations. I am deeply grateful to Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali who, sensing this need, has entrusted into our hands his vision of a stable world, entitled 'An Agenda for Peace'. As a representative of one of Europe’s smallest countries and oldest nations, I should like to suggest that the prevalent tendency of the past century, and especially the past decades, has been an increase in the numbers of small countries and a reduction in the number of large ones. The issue of increasing the number of permanent members of the Security Council has been introduced into the agenda, and Estonia supports this as a step towards accepting today’s new realities. Personally, I should like to put to you, members of the General Assembly, the following question: should the Security Council not also include as a member with veto power a representative of the world’s majority, the small nations? I do not have an answer to this question and neither do you. This is not tragic. The opposite would be tragic. Seeking for answers is the United Nations future and our common hope. Today we speak of the fatal differences Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 5 between cultures. Thereby the inevitability of conflicts is suggested. Conflicts are not fatal only because someone believes in Buddha, another in Jehovah, another in Christ or Allah or the shamans of Siberia. Cultures have to be different to allow man, with his rights and duties, to look like man, to look like hope. The day before coming here I read a book by the famous Finnish philosopher Matti Kuusi on what hope means to man. The Mexican says that you cannot fill your stomach with hope, but it will keep the soul in your mouth; a Kanuri African will say that hope is the pillar; the Filipino says that daring is the fruit of hope and the Maltese says that he who gives up hope dies. This diversity is the unity of mankind. And to make it easier for you to keep the unity of man and the world, I will add for salt, pepper and enjoyment a proverb from my shores, the shores of the Baltic: do not lose your hopelessness. Hopelessness is the inevitable shadow of hope, and the ever-persevering United Nations is the collective hope of mankind. I thank you for your hopeful patience. It gives me great pleasure to congratulate Ambassador Insanally of Guyana on his election to the high office of the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I am also delighted to welcome the new Members of the Organization. In this regard allow me to welcome especially the State of Eritrea as a Member of the United Nations. At the end of a cruel war the people of Eritrea exercised their right to self-determination and opted for Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 33 sovereign statehood in a referendum which won praise from the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity and other international organizations as being free and fair. Addis Ababa and Asmara took steps immediately to forge a new era of close relationship and cooperation. The healing of the wounds of war has progressed dramatically. Building for shared prosperity is progressing in earnest. Ethiopia believes that the spirit in which the Eritrean problem was resolved, as well as the developments taking place to forge a basis for permanent peace and all- round cooperation, is a unique manifestation of the era of change from conflict to concord. Peace has provided us with the opportunity to concentrate on reconstruction and lay the groundwork for sustainable development in Ethiopia and in Eritrea. The vision of the Ethiopian and Eritrean leaderships and peoples is for economic, social and cultural integration leading to political integration on a new plane. The leaderships of the two countries have a vision for expanding such integration to include the countries of the subregion. The establishment of peace and stability is therefore a priority agenda in the coordinated efforts of our two Governments and we are determined to pursue our objectives, however difficult the hurdles may be. Nevertheless, we recognize that the Ethiopian and Eritrean situation does not cover all the hopes and expectations for the changes that have taken place in the last few years. As there are encouraging developments in some parts of the world, we are also witnessing painful situations in others. The crisis in Somalia is a case in point. Since this crisis is at the heart of my Government’s concerns, I would like to beg the indulgence of this Assembly to take a few moments to make a brief comment on the disturbing developments there. It is to be recalled that the Security Council’s decision to restore order and to open the channels for the delivery of humanitarian aid was put into effect in December 1992 and thereafter. Immediate action was then taken to bring together the warring factions as well as representatives of various sectors of Somali society. The aim was to secure their agreement on a plan of action for the restoration of peace and the establishment of the structures of civil administration. In particular, the reconciliation input of the high-level Horn of Africa Standing Committee on Somalia was brought to bear at the Conference held in Addis Ababa in March of this year. An agreement was hammered out on a series of measures leading to peace and political stability in the country. The main elements of the agreement included a cease-fire; a programme of disarmament; regional reconciliation; measures on finding a political solution to be achieved through the establishment of elected district and regional councils, to culminate in the establishment of a transitional national council as the highest organ of state; and the principles for the settlement of conflicts relating to property claims. Concurrently, the Addis Ababa agreement of March 1993 provides for modalities of continuing humanitarian relief and the initiation of rehabilitation as well as reconstruction programmes. The United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM) was to manage peace-keeping and the maintenance of an appropriate environment for the execution of rehabilitation and reconstruction programmes. It was then hoped that implementation of the political aspects of the Addis Ababa agreement would proceed as planned. However, the Somali situation took a tragic turn, particularly when, on 5 June this year, United Nations peace-keepers from Pakistan and many Somalis were killed. That was a deplorable incident indeed, and we continue to be seriously disturbed by the tragic events which have resulted since then in further loss of life with no apparent end to the crisis. Indeed, there is a deadlock and a dilemma as to how to overcome the impasse in Mogadishu. In the view of my delegation, a thorough review of all aspects of the Somali situation by the United Nations is imperative. Such a review should be aimed at restoring the situation that existed before 5 June and at proceeding from there with the implementation of the Addis Ababa agreement. In this respect, it is clear that involving the factions as well as representatives of the various sectors of Somali society in the processes is vital. UNOSOM is the last chance Somalia has. Therefore, it must not be allowed to fail. Its preoccupation with the 5 June incident should not be allowed to divert its attention from its ultimate goal of political reconciliation and economic and social rehabilitation. It must be recognized that, for the objectives of UNOSOM to be achieved, the battle for the hearts and minds of all Somalis must be won. My delegation believes that all UNOSOM troops should be materially and spiritually equipped to fight and win such a war, and that whenever there are shortcomings in that regard UNOSOM should be prepared to act promptly to redress them. Ethiopia is ready to contribute its share to such a scenario. It will be recalled, in this regard, that the Organization of African Unity at its summit meeting in Cairo in June of this year gave a mandate to President Meles 34 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Zenawi of the Transitional Government of Ethiopia to follow up and assist in the resolution of the Somali crisis. This mandate was endorsed by the fourth summit of the Heads of State and Government of the Inter-Governmental Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD). I would like to quote from the Declaration adopted by the fourth summit of IGADD, held in Addis Ababa on 6 and 7 September 1993. 'We applaud the positive achievements of the United Nations in Somalia in preventing the death of thousands of Somalis through starvation and conflict; 'We reinforce the conviction that caution is required in handling the current very complicated political situation in Somalia; 'We further call for a meaningful consultation between UNOSOM and the countries of the subregion and reiterate the need for a more active role on the part of the countries of the subregion; 'We fully endorse the mandate given to President Meles Zenawi to follow developments in Somalia on behalf of the OAU by also mandating him to follow up the developments in that member State on behalf of the countries of the subregion.' While the implementation of the Addis Ababa agreement is, in our considered view, the only viable avenue towards a political solution to the Somali crisis, we also regard UNOSOM as a guarantor against a slide into anarchy in Somalia. We urge UNOSOM to continue with its task until the objectives of the Addis Ababa agreement are fully achieved. The problem of refugees and persons displaced by a host of calamities continues to haunt the Horn of Africa subregion. In this regard, Ethiopia continues to face immense difficulties, the solutions of which are beyond what its meagre resources and capacities allow. On top of this, Ethiopia has to cope with the requirements of settling close to 1 million returnees. It is to be recalled that agreement on principles for the delivery of humanitarian assistance was reached with the donors at the Horn of Africa Conference held in Addis Ababa in April 1992. Those principles should be observed to ensure that relief assistance reaches the needy. Human life is precious. Denying people the right to survival, therefore, is a crime. Those who hamper the delivery of relief aid to the needy are criminals. Likewise, those who hold human survival hostage to their political agendas cannot and must not be regarded as anything but criminals. It may be possible to put pressure on the recipients with a view to adjusting their positions in ways that would facilitate the delivery of relief aid. But the thought of applying pressure on the donors is, to say the least, nightmarish. I would like to stress that humanitarian work should be absolutely depoliticized. With respect to other issues of concern to the international community, I would like to refer to the promising developments in South Africa. My delegation welcomes the decision on the establishment of a Transitional Executive Council responsible for supervising the process of transition towards a non-racial, democratic South Africa. We commend and support all the political leaders for their bold actions in paving the way for a peaceful transition to democracy in South Africa. Regrettably, however, there are areas of grave concern where peace has yet to materialize. In this regard, the resumption of hostilities in Angola is a blow to the stupendous efforts made by the international community and by Angolans themselves to restore peace in that country. We appeal to the parties concerned to resolve their differences at the negotiating table, taking into account the elections, which have been declared free and fair by international observers, as a reference for a political settlement of the Angolan conflict. On other areas of conflict in Africa, Ethiopia appeals to its brothers in Rwanda, Mozambique and Liberia to continue the momentum towards the establishment of peace in their respective countries. Likewise, it is Ethiopia’s fervent hope that our brothers in the Sudan will soon discover the happy medium that brings peace and tranquility. On the Middle East, Ethiopia welcomes the first step towards a settlement embodied in the historic agreement signed in Washington by Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). We warmly congratulate the leaders of both sides on their courageous move, and hope that the momentum towards a comprehensive settlement of the Middle East conflict will pick up speed as a result. Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 35 However, it appears that our hopes in some areas of the world are destined to be tempered by virtual despair in others. I am referring here to the tragic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the senseless killing that seems to have no end. I call it senseless not with the intent of passing judgement on the legitimacy of the respective positions of the parties to the conflict, but rather to underline the universal belief that the dividends of peace are so much greater than the gains of an enormously destructive war. In full recognition of the fact that an end to the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the hands of the combatants themselves, we appeal to them to cooperate with international mediation efforts. Humanity wants peace. Thus, humanity is looking to the United Nations and hopes that this Organization’s resources and fortitude will make the desired impact through preventive diplomacy, conflict management and conflict resolution. At the regional level, the Organization of African Unity, at its twenty-ninth summit, held in Cairo last June, decided to establish a mechanism for the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts. Ethiopia is committed to work vigorously for its effective implementation and for its success. Although we are far from being satisfied, the newly emerging international situation indicates some encouraging prospects in the area of political relationships. In the field of international economic relations, however, the situation is far from encouraging. Our world still faces the uncomfortable reality of its division into two blocs: the affluent and the poor, the North and the South. Poverty still represents the greatest threat to democratic governance and world peace and security. Political instability, corruption, hunger, illicit drug trafficking and a litany of other evils trace their roots to mass poverty. And the international community is not unaware of the factors that have conspired to frustrate the hopes and aspirations of poor countries. Promises of special programmes for the least developed countries, 10-year action programmes and so forth agreed upon by the international community have so far made little difference by way of alleviating poverty. In Africa, overall economic growth continues to lag behind population growth. And the continent remains the poorest of all. Since there can be no stability or better prospects for the world without reducing the disparities in levels of global development, both developed and developing countries should conduct a constructive dialogue on practical measures for stimulating development. Environment and development are the two major concerns to which the international community has turned its attention. In particular, Ethiopia appreciates the international community’s support for the effort to combat desertification and drought, which are causing extensive environmental degradation in Africa. We appeal to all Member States to support fully the efforts of the intergovernmental negotiating committee for the elaboration of an international convention to combat desertification. Environmental degradation is a major development bottleneck which must be addressed as a matter of urgency. This occasion provides me an opportunity to share with this Assembly a few thoughts on the situation prevailing in Ethiopia since the establishment of the transitional Government two years ago. The process of democratization and self-rule has been consolidated through local and regional elections. The policy on equitable power-sharing among the various regions and nationalities has succeeded in ensuring peace and stability throughout the country. These, coupled with the implementation of liberalized economic reforms, reconstruction programmes and improved weather conditions, have brought about encouraging improvements in the economy. The supportive role of international financial institutions and the donor community have had a useful impact on the positive outcome of Ethiopia’s reconstruction and recovery efforts. Therefore, in a brief period of two years, Ethiopia has emerged from a state of despair to one of recovery. We are now looking to the future with considerable confidence. With respect to political programmes, Ethiopia has launched the final phase of the transition period with work on drafting a constitution. When the constitution is approved, multi-party elections are planned, on the basis of which permanent State structures will be put in place. Already, an independent judiciary is functioning, and legality is assuming a prominent role in guaranteeing the human rights of the people. Peaceful political activity, a free press and freedom of expression and of conscience are established features of Ethiopian life today. Our democratic attitude is working. It is working in consolidating peace and stability and in generating investor and business confidence. It has worked in restoring the confidence of the people in their own future. Ethiopia is committed to the observance of all aspects of the protection of human rights. Protection of the dignity of man also means freedom from poverty. 'Prisoner of conscience' and 'prisoner of poverty' are one and the same. The right to freedom of expression and the right to education 36 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session are indivisible. Concern for human rights is virtually meaningless without corresponding action on the alleviation of poverty, ignorance and other causes of deprivation. Ethiopia therefore appeals to the international community to cooperate in addressing the issue of human rights in the context of these general principles. Our democratic outlook with respect to our relations with neighbouring countries and peoples has borne fruit. Ethiopia has never enjoyed such harmony, both internally and in its relations with its neighbours. Ethiopia has attained the requisite self-confidence that makes it a true partner in the community of nations. I wish therefore to reiterate the continued faith of my country in the collective wisdom of our global Organization and to pledge anew our unreserved support for the laudable efforts of the United Nations system. We believe that as the guarantor of international peace and stability, the United Nations should expand its efforts by stepping up its activities in the field of preventive diplomacy. It should develop new, more effective machinery to coordinate actions aimed at enhancing respect for the norms of international law and ensuring the security and interests of all States. Alongside the maintenance of international peace and security, we welcome United Nations efforts in assisting the developing countries in their endeavour to achieve a greater degree of economic development and self-reliance. The role of the United Nations in world affairs is all-inclusive. For this role to be effective, it is important that the Organization’s methods of operation be characterized by accountability and transparency. Ethiopia subscribes to the calls for democratizing the decision-making processes of the United Nations system and for streamlining its bureaucracy. I am hopeful that at this session the General Assembly will review and assess these priority issues with a view to revitalizing the Organization so that it can meet the imperatives of the time. I would first of all like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to this responsible post, and to wish you success. On behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria, let me congratulate the delegations of the States that have joined the United Nations as new Members this year - the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Eritrea, Monaco and Andorra. Three years ago, in this same Hall, I had the honour of addressing the world forum. My message was on behalf of democratic Bulgaria, a country where changes fully and genuinely match the ideals and values uniting the nations in the world Organization. Since then, as indeed over the past year, under the Bulgarian presidency of the General Assembly, we have witnessed diverse and often contradicting trends in international life. If there is a dominating feeling, though, it is one of optimism and of trust, on the part of both Governments and nations, in the United Nations as a spokesman for and guarantor of the political will of the world community for peace and sustainable democratic development. We have seen a number of encouraging examples of this. The democratic changes in Eastern Europe have added an element of dynamism to building European unity and the European civil society, a society open to the rest of the world. Important forums of the European Community, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Council of Europe provide a frame and a foundation for the emerging European unity and security. Bulgaria has been an active participant in the European organizations. It will be the first post-Communist country to assume the presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the oldest European organization - the Council of Europe. It is also a coordinator of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Group, bringing together the countries of that region. After the Berlin wall, the walls of Jericho came tumbling down. There began the long-expected unraveling of the Gordian knot in the Middle East, the place where three world cultural and religious traditions coexist. We welcome also the development of democratic processes in South Africa that will lead to the establishment of a united and non-racial society. Humanity has bid farewell to chemical weapons; and it has succeeded in convening world conferences on subjects believed until recently to defy consensus, such as human rights and protection for the victims of war. The democratic changes in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union continue to be an important condition for the positive changes in international life at the turn of this century. The heightened attention of the world community to the social and political tensions in Moscow is as understandable as is the broad international support for the reform-minded and democratic forces in Russia, support with which Bulgaria fully agrees. The dramatic events in Moscow which we witnessed over the weekend prove how difficult and painful the transition from post-Communist 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session society to democracy and a market economy is, and what dangers and risks it entails. The United Nations cannot simply stand by and watch with indifference the difficulties of the countries in transition. If we are to live up to the name 'United Nations' we have to render our moral, political and financial support to these nations. The collapse of totalitarian rule, and the breakup of the Soviet empire and of the Warsaw Treaty, created an unexpected paradox: less danger to world peace and, at the same time, less peace in the world and more challenges and trials for the United Nations. Regional conflicts have proved to be a key problem for the new democracies. Think of the consequences of the world community’s failure to handle the war in the former Yugoslavia! The stakes are always high but they are even higher in the Balkans where conflicts threaten to spill over and embroil other States. Bulgaria’s civilized and good-neighbourly Balkan policy entitles it now, as indeed at the very outset of the Yugoslav crisis, to insist on firm judgement and energetic steps on the part of the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Secretary-General to contain and end the barbaric war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to prevent other smouldering conflicts in former Yugoslavia from flaring up. Recent attempts to find concerted ways of coordinating the peace-keeping efforts of the United Nations and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) have been followed with keen interest in Bulgaria. We have already voiced our support for the constructive engagement of President Clinton’s Administration, notably the preventive stationing of a contingent of troops under a United Nations flag in Macedonia. Bulgaria is against re-drawing borders and gaining territory by force. It has been consistent in its position in favour of a peaceful solution of the Yugoslav crisis. By virtue of its geopolitical situation, Bulgaria has a key role to play in implementing the economic sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro. We share the longest land border with Serbia and we are not involved, either directly or indirectly, in the hostilities in former Yugoslavia. Without Bulgaria the sanctions will be doomed to failure. Fully aware of our responsibility, we adhere strictly to the relevant resolutions of the Security Council in the face of great economic sacrifice. Measured against our potential, the losses are indeed huge. The embargo has closed Bulgaria’s direct route to the markets of Western Europe. Consequently, its losses for 1992 were estimated - with expert assistance from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) - at $943.6 million. The 1993 figure is expected to be several times higher. The effect of the sanctions may lead to halting and thwarting economic reform, as well as jeopardizing the democratic process and social peace in Bulgaria. In other words, the price Bulgaria is paying for peace and security in the Balkans and in Europe may prove fatal to its internal peace and stability. Direct losses from the sanctions against former Yugoslavia, Iraq and Libya, are commensurate with one half of Bulgaria’s external debt to commercial creditor banks, and they dim the prospects for economic recovery, development and integration into the world community. As a State Member of the United Nations Bulgaria fulfils its international obligations in good faith, convinced that any civilized country concerned about world security should uphold a common cause - even at the cost of sacrifice. Yet, is it not fair for a country in our position to seek assistance and understanding from the world Organization and its Member States? There is an urgent need to devise a working mechanism of awarding compensation to Member States which sustain losses as a result of the strict implementation of the sanctions imposed by the Security Council. The provisions of Chapter VII of the Charter are equally important and should be applied strictly. Article 50 of the Charter could be backed up by relevant agreements for concrete aid to Member States affected by sanctions against third countries. The forms of compensation could include, among others, measures to ease the economic situation of the affected country, such as concluding stand-by agreements with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), facilitating the debt- servicing and settlement procedure, financing major transport and communication infrastructure projects nationally and regionally - in our case, new bridges on the River Danube, an international airport, motorways linking Bulgaria and Greece, Bulgaria, Macedonia and Albania such as Thessaloniki-Vidin and Sofia-Skopje-Tirana - speeding up the ratification of the European Association Agreement between Bulgaria and the European Community and an earlier accession to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The Bulgarian delegation at this session of the General Assembly will put forward proposals on some of the above issues. We rely on the support and cooperation of the States Members of the Organization in this regard. Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 7 Considering that no international organization at the moment is in a position to award direct compensation for losses sustained as a result of economic sanctions, the indirect ways of compensation could be of crucial importance. The problem of international sanctions and compensation merits serious attention. It calls for an in-depth analysis, as it vitally concerns a number of States Members of the United Nations. The time is ripe to look into these issues at a special forum for which Bulgaria offers its hospitality. United Nations peace-keeping operations have constituted a most significant and prominent part of the world Organization’s work over the past year. I could not emphasize more the importance of the Secretary-General’s report entitled 'An Agenda for Peace', which developed the concept of crisis management through preventive diplomacy. Bulgaria supported this political strategy and backed up its words with actions by sending Blue Helmets to Cambodia. Once again, the international community seems to have been inadequately prepared for mounting such operations. The question of the safety of United Nations personnel proved particularly poignant. Bulgaria lost 10 volunteers in Cambodia, not to mention the cost of its involvement, which has not yet been fully estimated. Early warning for potential conflicts calls for effective international mechanisms to monitor the human rights situation, including that of individuals from minority groups - because conflicts brew wherever individual human rights are trampled upon, wherever the universal values of modern civilization are replaced by survival instincts and political pluralism and the diversity of ideas, by intolerance, xenophobia, racism, religious and political bigotry and violence. The idea of creating a new post within the United Nations system, that of a high commissioner for human rights, is an expression of the desire to step up international cooperation in this field. We are prepared to participate actively in discussing this matter. Let us look at the United Nations potential for crisis management. Many of the proposed ideas hold out promise. But if they are to materialize, the United Nations must live up to its coordinating, organizing and mobilizing role in finding the relevant political and military means. In the Yugoslav crisis, for instance, the Euro-Atlantic and European security organizations could have taken up some of its functions. Here is a case in point. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) has undergone a significant evolution in its attitude towards the conflict. As well as becoming a major challenge, the Yugoslav crisis has provided an impetus for the alliance to review its priorities and objectives. Bulgaria openly declares its readiness to enhance its cooperation - including as a full member - with NATO and its member States. Our good bilateral relations and security cooperation with Turkey and Greece illustrate clearly our approach and intentions. It would be beneficial to Balkan and European security if these relations could be developed further into cooperation between allies within NATO. Bulgaria is willing and able to shoulder responsibility and act as a reliable partner. Addressing today’s global social and economic problems calls for new approaches in the work of the United Nations specialized bodies in these areas. New ways and means should be sought to facilitate access to technical assistance and modern technologies. There is a need for daring and pragmatic initiatives in areas such as trade liberalization, the future of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), external debt, labour migration, unemployment, environmental safety and the proliferation of environmentally friendly technologies. The Republic of Bulgaria is ready to cooperate in any of the above-mentioned efforts as a member of various United Nations bodies, including possibly the Economic and Social Council. The strengthening of the regime of the Treaty on the non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the preparation for the review Conference in 1995 are of paramount importance. Bulgaria shares the view that the non- proliferation Treaty should become universal and be of indefinite duration. Bulgaria’s expectations for the future role and functions of the United Nations determine its attitude towards the ongoing reform of the world Organization. On the basis of its history of nearly 50 years, the Member States can identify elements of its Charter and structure that need revision and others that are universal and lasting and whose validity should not be questioned. Clearly, such decisions can be reached only after serious debate and by consensus of the Member States, notably the permanent members of the Security Council. It is essential to preserve the Security Council as an effective decision-making mechanism if its representation is broadened. The powers and responsibility of the Secretary-General will certainly change, with an increasing emphasis on his diplomatic and peace-making efforts. 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The Bulgarian delegation is taking part in the forty- eighth session of the General Assembly and making its contribution as an active member of the international community. Our commitment to the problems and the future of the Organization is prompted by our awareness of being among the staunchest supporters of its cause and noble missions. First of all, I should like to congratulate the President on his assumption of his important post at the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I should also like to express my gratitude for making it possible for me to comply with the instructions of the President of Turkmenistan, Mr. Niyazov, and the entire Turkmen population in speaking to the world community. A unique situation prevails in the world today. There are no longer two inimical camps, and we virtually have eliminated the most pressing problem of global nuclear conflict. Furthermore, ridding ourselves of the ideological yoke has freed us from internal conflicts and contradictions. As political scientists said after the end of the standoff between the two blocs, we now have on the world agenda urgent problems - new and bloody regional and internal conflicts, which are no less dangerous to the world than a global confrontation. What are the reasons for this seemingly unfathomable outbreak of aggressiveness and conflict? In our view, the answer to this question can be found in the lack of political pragmatism and in a failure to understand realities. One of Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 25 the major reasons is the lack of a deep-seated political culture and of restraint, and the desire to do everything at once. But there are no miracles. We need political courage, which has been demonstrated by the President of Turkmenistan, in order to avoid the pitfalls of unrealistic decisions, something which might, to put it mildly, lead to social disappointment. From the very first days of our independent existence, Turkmenistan found itself faced with a whole series of difficult and unique problems, which were determined by the special characteristics of its attaining statehood. Proclaiming its sovereignty and independence is only the starting-point for a lengthy process which is to lead to the establishment of an efficient political system, a strong national economy and a workable social structure. For this, we need essentially not just reforms but a full reorientation of the political system and of the economy. I should like to emphasize especially this aspect, since at the same time very difficult reforms will be needed in other areas as well. The natural economic and social development of our people was interrupted for seven long decades. As a result, people lost the notion of private property, and their ways of thinking and social morals became out of touch. This is an important aspect, and we should bear this mind in establishing new States on a new legal basis. At the present time, the most important possessions of all the citizens of Turkmenistan are independence and the opportunity to solve their problems independently. Perhaps this would seem to be axiomatic, but as we see it, of the entire system of priorities formulated by the Government of our country, this is the most desirable in the current circumstances prevailing in Turkmenistan and in the area. In order to achieve large-scale reforms of the political and economic system in Turkmenistan, a programme of '10 years of stability' has been adopted. What are the tasks of that programme? First and foremost, to wean the economy away from the notion of State property, in particular from a foodstuff-dominated economy and production towards the production of prepared products. The second is the formation of the political, economic, social, spiritual and cultural life of the State, without the infamous system - inherited from the past - of roles played out in advance. Thirdly is the formation and development of democratic institutions, including a multi-party system. Against the background of these processes, we see social psychology transformed, away from political apathy and the lack of responsibility. In this regard, we are trying to pursue our policy in such a way that we would strengthen our ability to avoid social upheaval, breakdowns in all sectors of society and the lack of social harmony. This is not easy. The people of Turkmenistan need unity and solidarity. This gives us hope for the future, however. Pragmatism will be a determinant in overcoming our difficulties in establishing the major criteria for Turkmenistan’s current foreign policy. In solving these economic problems, we are offering to our foreign partners businesslike cooperation without any ideological or political passions, and we have found understanding everywhere. The logical outcome of this development has led us to the formulation of a foreign-policy concept of positive neutrality, which is in keeping with the national interests of our State and in the interest of maintaining peace and stability in the region. In solving military problems, we have been guided by our neutral status, which stems from the principle of non- interference in the internal affairs of States and the recognition of territorial integrity and the inviolability of their borders. It is well known that sometimes the concept of non-interference can be questionable or even rejected. But in our view, a new independent State in Europe and Asia also needs conditions for the peaceful resolution of its internal problems in order to achieve civil calm and in order to find the necessary compromises. Obviously, based on military force, we cannot achieve development and progress in the broad sense of the word. And we need to move away from internationalizing the internal problems of various States through military force. At the same time, we support the peace-keeping actions of the United Nations and other international organizations. These are the factors that determine our view of events in Tajikistan. I can state that our position has found support and understanding among other countries. We have reached agreement with the leadership of Iran on a new agreement, one of the most important conditions of which is the transformation of the 1,500-kilometre border between Iran and Turkmenistan into a border of peace and cooperation. We are actively engaged in political dialogue with the central Government of Afghanistan and also with the authorities of the northern and north-western provinces. Such a policy has brought positive results. Recently we signed a three-party memorandum on the construction of a railroad from Turkmenistan to Pakistan through Afghanistan. In addition, Afghanistan will see the first major railroad in its history. We will make it possible, therefore, to have an outlet to the ports of the Indian Ocean through the States of Central Asia and Europe. 26 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Speaking of relations with our neighbours, we must especially emphasize the role of Russia in the creation of an independent Turkmenistan. We well understand that this process began in Russia and was initiated by its leadership. A high degree of understanding at the level of leadership and the traditional mutual respect of our peoples has established a lasting basis for the development of mutually advantageous bilateral cooperation on new and equitable bases. In speaking of this, I should like from this rostrum to state that Turkmenistan supports the efforts of the leadership of Russia to establish order and to establish conditions for the active continuation of political reforms and the full dismantling of the totalitarian system and its replacement with a system chosen by the people. Turkmenistan is actively developing relations with Turkey, Austria, the United Kingdom, Indonesia, Pakistan, Malaysia, Germany, France, Argentina and Italy, and constructive dialogue with the United States is under way. President Niyazov’s recent visit to Belgium laid the groundwork for new cooperation between Turkmenistan and the countries of the European Community and between Turkmenistan and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. We are also opening a number of Turkmenistan Embassies abroad. In short, our country is actively involved in international relations. We support those agreements that will lead to an end of confrontation and make possible peaceful and constructive dialogue. Among those agreements, we note with satisfaction the recent changes in the relationship between Israel and the PLO. Turkmenistan’s geopolitical situation - our country is a member of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) and is at the same time connected by deep historical and cultural roots to the Middle and Far East - enables us, in view of our country’s stability, to play a constructive role in bridging the gap between two major regions of the world. I should like to say a few words on Turkmenistan’s position vis-à-vis the Commonwealth of Independent States. Turkmenistan is in favour of the Commonwealth, in favour of the development of integrationist processes and, while it opposed the establishment of any kind of rigid centralized system in the past it is in favour of coordinating structures. In our view, the coming forth today of super-national formations has held back the process of independence and has now led back to the former system of decision by force. In States that have arisen since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, we now see respect for national interests alone, and we see only the bare beginnings of a process of inter-State relations on new, qualitatively different bases. The statehood of these countries is a difficult matter, and this process must respect national specificities and social and economic factors. If all these factors are borne in mind, any kind of rigid coordinating structure is impossible. Attempts artificially to impose positions and a unified model for development on new independent States cannot but work against sovereignty and national interests. In the final analysis, such an approach would lead to the establishment of a new centre. From the very outset, Turkmenistan actively attempted to develop relations with the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States on the basis of bilateral relations and various types of agreements, in view of the fact that the Commonwealth is primarily a consultative mechanism that gives us the opportunity to exchange ideas and experience and to lay down programmes of action. We feel that such an approach is more flexible and therefore more effective. Experience has shown that at this current stage - and I emphasize, at this current stage - bilateral agreements are a more reliable basis for solving problems as they arise. We often see the example of the European Community, and, supposedly, the same thing could happen in our region. To my mind, anyone who tries to achieve what the European Community has done over 40 years is not taking into account some essential factors: the high-level starting-point of the unification of Europe, the very different market basis of its economies and what might be called the European psychology. We have none of these factors. It is important to establish the fact that if we cannot count on our future relations, the Commonwealth of Independent of States has no prospects. We in Turkmenistan believe, and have always believed, that a solution should be found within the framework of the Commonwealth, should be adopted by consensus and should be very broad and based primarily on economic feasibility and attractiveness. This will be only the first step, and it needs to be followed by others on a higher level of integration. But for this, the Commonwealth of Independent States and the countries of which it is composed need a period of transition in order to work out acceptable approaches and adequately evaluate the existing realities. Over two years of independent development, we have done a great deal of work in establishing a legal basis for the market. We have already established the basis and guarantees that opened up the Turkmen market to foreign investors and enterprises. In Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 27 Turkmenistan we have introduced private property, including land, and we have established zones of free economic development. Today we have a stable political situation and social agreement. It is important that society be psychologically prepared for new economic relations. On 1 November this year, Turkmenistan will introduce its own national monetary unit, the manat. We are in an extremely unstable monetary zone, which would mean certain limitations for Turkmenistan if we gave up our sovereignty and formed our own policy regarding prices, taxation, budgeting, credit and monetary policy. Hence, our country has sometimes absorbed some losses because of continuing inflation and the economic crisis. All of this was conditioned by the need to introduce our own currency. We believe that our own currency policy will be closely linked to that of the United States dollar, and we intend to ensure, from the time we introduce it, its convertibility. According to prognoses of international experts and our own evaluations, we have a real opportunity of doing this. The manat will be a reliable currency for the State reserves. The introduction of a national currency policy will hasten structural changes in the economy and bring us closer to the market. With the International Monetary Fund we have worked up a programme of structural economic changes, including a step-by-step process. From 1 October we have begun a broad liberalization of prices, including plans to enter the world price system and this also includes energy prices. With the introduction of the manat as our currency we are beginning active privatization, which involves, first and foremost, the sphere of services in the area of medium-sized and large enterprises. This is to be done by selling enterprises at auction and distributing shares among workers. We hope to conclude the privatization process by the end of 1995. I should like to point out that the privatization programme has been carried out in close cooperation with the World Bank. In addition, measures to free prices have been undertaken by the Government in order to free up trade. Licensing of exports will take place with a view to observing norms ensured through national security and the protection of our cultural and artistic heritage. We shall also undertake other steps designed to promote maximum stimulation of international trade and eliminate administrative barriers and to increase access to the market. In a time of transition to a market economy, we intend to make the State’s role more streamlined and open and significantly reduce its interference in economic activities. We welcome the attention the United Nations specialized agencies have paid us with regard to our problems. Despite our difficulties and the problems yet to be solved, the Republic has achieved considerable success. Over the first six months of 1993, Turkmenistan’s national income increased by 112 per cent. Such growth would not have been achieved by many States in a similar situation. Over that same period industrial output increased by 116.9 per cent, and agricultural production increased by 124 per cent. The stronger our economy, the more reliable the fabric of political and social life in our State. At the same time, we believe that economic development is inconceivable without our country’s steady development of a society in which the individual and his interests are regarded as the most important end. For Turkmenistan, which for 70 years had a totalitarian system with backward social development, development of the economy remains the keystone of our State policy. In this context, along with other forthcoming major international events, such as the International Conference on Population and Development, the Fourth World Conference on Women, with the three objectives, equality, development and peace, and the International Conference on Population and Development, which will deal with problems of human beings and their need for shelter, we welcome the preparations for the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen in 1995, which will deal, we think, in detail with social consequences of economic reform and restructuring as applied to countries in transition. In the context of social problems, I should like to point out that in 1990 we had the World Summit for Children, which established a new basis for improving living conditions for children the world over. The Government of Turkmenistan gives priority attention to these endeavours. Turkmenistan joined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child and intends very soon to sign the Declaration that was adopted at that World Summit. We also have serious work under way for national programmes of action in order to achieve the goals outlined in the Declaration. 28 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session We share the view of the international community that we must rebuild the Earth’s ecology. We support international cooperation in United Nations efforts in this timely endeavour. In our view, it is sustainable development and balanced attention to the interests of all countries that will ensure the successful solution of global, regional and subregional problems; this should accord with the conclusions of the 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development and of the Convention on climate change. I announce before the Assembly that Turkmenistan intends to eliminate all its nuclear weapons and will continue its support for the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), for the chemical weapons Convention, and for the bacteriological (biological) weapons Convention. I convey the gratitude of the President of Turkmenistan, of our Government and of our people to the United Nations for its support and its understanding. I should also like to pay a tribute to the Secretary- General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless and innovative work. Turkmenistan wishes to state without reserve that it will honestly and openly cooperate with all States that share its attachment to the principles of the Organization. Our policies will be based on common sense and on protecting our people’s interests. Turkmenistan, in creating a democratic, secular State, is open to peaceful cooperation and ready to engage in broadly-based, mutually beneficial cooperation. I wish to begin by congratulating the President and the other officers of the Assembly on their election to their high, responsible posts and by wishing them every success in their work, which will certainly yield positive results for us all. The end of the twentieth century will go down in history as the period in which the cold war came to an end and which saw the dawn of a new world, a period of new opportunities to do things that only yesterday would have taken a miracle to achieve. It is enough to recall the historic agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), the reductions in nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction, and, for my country, something that seemed impossible only very recently: the achievement of the high degree of sovereignty that permits us to speak from the rostrum of the General Assembly Hall. I represent a small country that can be viewed as an oasis of democracy. But that is not strictly accurate: we are hardly surrounded by an empty wasteland. We are trying to find our place in a new, complex world. In that quest we are guided by the following definitions: In the political sphere, our quest means pluralism, allowing the existence of varied ideologies and parties that do not espouse violence or extremism; in the economic sphere, it means a policy designed to achieve a multi-faceted social market economy, with equal rights and freedoms for all economic entities; in the social sphere, it means a policy of self-reliance protecting the most vulnerable sectors of our population; in the legal sphere, it means legal safeguards for the interests of all citizens, economic entities, parties and movements, as well as for the State; in the area of religion, it means tolerance and the application of ethical principles; in the sphere of building the structures of State authority, it means forming coalition groups with broad participation by officials from many parties and movements. The linchpin of our policy is acknowledgement of the priority of humanitarian values and of the natural right of the individual to happiness. The new Constitution of Kyrgyzstan clearly lays down these basic principles, through which we are attempting, in spite of difficulties, to establish our chosen State model. My purpose in this statement is not just to give an idea of our Republic’s political prospects. I shall try to take a broader approach to issues; perhaps to some extent this is a prerequisite for our acknowledgement by the world community. The process of the victory of democracy in Kyrgyzstan, and in the other Republics of the former Soviet Union, seems paradoxical and almost irrational. Revolutionary changes have taken place at the top levels of the political elite. These changes were welcomed, as I see it, primarily because by that time we had already achieved the democratic victory of glasnost. What happened could be expressed as follows: the storming of the Bastille was preceded by The Marriage of Figaro. Our reforms began not with the economy but with politics. How could it be otherwise, since Kyrgyzstan had no elements of a market economy, and property ownership was distorted? Kyrgyzstan today is one of the few independent States of the former Soviet Union to have adopted and be carrying out a programme of economic reforms for transition to a market economy, as approved by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. For a number of objective reasons pertaining to the structure of production and current shortages of energy sources, such as oil and gas, implementation of recommendations for our Republic has caused us social and economic difficulties. Our country has a dire need for medicines, and a balanced diet is lacking. Thousands and thousands of young people are coming into the cities from the villages without any real professional training or any chance of prospering. Furthermore, we cannot yet give our economy the necessary impetus to enable us quickly to solve these and other major social problems. We need investment. Like other relatively small countries, we need a kind of Marshall Plan. The experience of many States has shown that this would be profitable for the wealthy countries and donors in many ways. I would not venture to say that, but for my firm conviction that the ability to empathize with the suffering of others has always been a strong point of the United Nations; in fact, it is what has given it its high standing in the eyes of the world. This is not a case of political parasitism. We firmly intend to pay off all of our debts, and we fully recognize that the usefulness of these policies can be measured only by mutual advantage, and that the results of any foreign policy activity, including the economic aspects, depend on the participation of others and the ability to pay, in the broad sense of the words. For the world community, for large and small countries, one thing is becoming more evident: there exists not only economic power, the power of gold and production, not only brute military power, but also spiritual power. I am talking not about the cruel, soulless and heartless fanaticism of some people, not about trends and faiths whose history is written in blood, but about lofty and pure ethical values which bind Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 17 together people who espouse them. These values and ideals are the moral postulates of religion. The President returned to the Chair. I wish to draw attention to what I regard as a special topic. We have been witnessing tragic conflicts with religious roots. One possible solution to this problem would be to adopt a universal convention on freedom of religion, which would call upon people of different faiths to apply ethical and moral principles for the sake of peace and harmony. The United Nations is recognized to be a universal Organization, and as such not to be at variance with other institutions of the world community. No, it is in those institutions, in the specialized agencies and regional organizations, that we find the embodiment of the ideals and principles of the United Nations. With this in view, I would like to draw attention to the problem of establishing a collective security system in Asia. In principle, the delegation of Kyrgyzstan agrees with what previous speakers have said in this regard. On the other hand, a collective security system in Asia cannot be established quickly, or as quickly as might be hoped. In this connection, no doubt the best we can do is to ask the Secretary-General to conduct a study, which could give us useful guidelines for future work on such an important problem. Naturally, I have covered only a few issues, against the backdrop of upheavals in the political and social life of the world today. But I still hope that I have drawn attention to major issues of interest to us all. Every State whose representative has addressed the Assembly has made recommendations, and further valuable recommendations and proposals will be made, based on the high ideals of our Organization, whose focal point should be the individual and his or her prosperity and happiness. We fully agree with these proposals and hope that the creative energy involved will not be self-destructive. I have the honour to convey to all members of the Assembly the warm greetings and good wishes of His Majesty Jigme Singye Wangchuck, King of Bhutan, for the success of the forty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly. I begin by congratulating you, Mr. President, on your unanimous election. We are confident that with your wide knowledge and experience you will provide proper direction to our discussions. We would also like to pay a tribute to our outgoing President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the exemplary manner in which he led the Assembly at the last session. We extend a warm welcome to the peoples and Governments of Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Monaco and the Republic of Slovakia on their joining the family of nations. We are confident that their membership will add to the strength and vitality of the Organization. We would like to pay a special tribute to our Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dynamic leadership. His initiatives have already started to steer the course of the United Nations into new and bold directions. His report to the Assembly is clear and concise and provides a good basis for the work of this session. Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993 19 The momentous events taking place around us in this new decade continue to pose challenges and offer opportunities of an unprecedented scale. The handshake on the White House lawn between Prime Minister Rabin and Chairman Arafat opened a window for peace and tolerance in the Middle East after a century of hatred and suspicion. When President Clinton called the agreement the 'peace of the brave', he paid just tribute to their courage. Deep-seated emotions will continue to blur reason and not all groups will take to the road of healing at the same pace. We join those calling on extremist factions on both sides to desist from the use of force. My delegation hopes that the agreement will lead to a comprehensive and durable peace on the basis of relevant Security Council resolutions. We appeal to the international community to give even stronger support to the implementation of the agreement in all its aspects. With regard to the situation in the Persian Gulf, we urge all parties to abide by Security Council resolution 833 (1993). It is our view that for the full recognition of Kuwait’s sovereignty, the boundary as demarcated by the United Nations must be internationally respected. My delegation is happy with the progressive dismantling of apartheid and the process towards universal franchise in South Africa. We have recently heard in this forum Mr. Mandela’s historic call to end all sanctions against South Africa, a call which must be speedily honoured. We applaud the positive results of United Nations involvement in Cambodia, El Salvador and Haiti. These successes, however, have not yet been replicated in Somalia and Bosnia. My delegation strongly condemns violence against United Nations peace-keeping and humanitarian workers. As the need for peace-keeping in other parts of the world grows, it is clear that in future the terms of every intervention must be carefully defined. My delegation welcomes the reduction in the international arsenal of nuclear and other weapons and we support the continuation of the Non-Proliferation Treaty beyond 1995. With regard to the nuclear situation on the Korean peninsula, we urge the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to comply fully with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Safeguards Agreement in order to avoid any suspicion and speculation. In an age focused on reducing the world’s nuclear arsenal, further testing is unnecessary and inconsistent. We urge all nuclear States not to carry out further tests and to continue negotiations towards a comprehensive test ban. While the world’s nuclear arms and other weapons of mass destruction are being dismantled, we are aware that conventional weapons are used in all present-day conflicts. No country which supplies arms can dissociate itself from the moral responsibility for the use of such arms. We fully support the United Nations Register on Conventional Arms and urge the reduction of the international arms trade. Over the past two years, considerable emphasis has been put on streamlining the United Nations Secretariat and making it more efficient. At the last two sessions the General Assembly has directed its attention not only towards reforming and revitalizing the United Nations but also towards making the General Assembly a more effective and responsive forum. While some progress has been made, the discussion on reforming and restructuring the United Nations continues. We cannot expect the United Nations, formed nearly five decades ago with just 50 members, to remain unchanged and yet be able to fulfil the hopes and expectations of the current 184 Members in a vastly different world. Clearly, the reforms and revitalization cannot be limited to managerial and organizational changes: the roles and responsibilities of all the principal organs of the United Nations must be taken into account. My delegation believes that during our discussion on reforming the United Nations, the time is opportune to enlarge the Security Council. The expansion of its membership must be taken up together with the issue of accountability. While it is necessary to preserve the Security Council’s new-found effectiveness, it must always be made accountable for its actions to the General Assembly. The need for reform and restructuring seems in recent months to have been somewhat overshadowed by the Organization’s financial difficulties and questions of effective operations and proper accountability. We fully agree that it is necessary to minimize waste and streamline operations. These issues, however, must be pursued independently of the concerns over the financial health of the United Nations. We urge all Members to pay their assessed contributions promptly. We are of the view that the current level of assessment has fully taken into account both the financial capacity of Member States to contribute and the role they have assumed in the Organization. There is a saying in my country that one must load the pony according to its ability to carry the burden. Although the United Nations has travelled far in the last three years, it is clear 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session now that we cannot keep overloading it without putting the necessary means and resources at its disposal. The Second World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna this year, clearly recognized that social progress and political stability cannot be ensured without respect for human rights. The Conference also recognized that human rights and social progress can be promoted and preserved only in a healthy economic and natural environment. For our part, we are fully committed to advancing the human rights of all our people. This year, as agreed to in Agenda 21 of the Earth Summit, the Commission on Sustainable Development has been established. The work of this Commission will provide a new direction for the preservation of the environment and give added impetus to developmental activities. We recognize that while all development must take place at local and national levels, there are clearly regional and international dimensions for which solutions must be found at the global level. Bhutan looks forward to participating in the upcoming global conferences on population and development, the World Summit for Social Development and the Fourth World Conference on Women. The recession that has afflicted much of the world economy in the past year has not shown any signs of improvement. In such conditions, it is hardly surprising that the economic performances of most of the world’s least developed countries have continued to be dismal. Per capita income for the one tenth of the world’s population which lives in these countries has fallen in the past three years despite the adoption of the United Nations Programme of Action in 1990. While the least developed countries have begun to initiate bold and painful structural reforms in their economies, budget constraints on donor nations and competing claims on aid resources have continued to slow down the flow of official development assistance to the least developed countries. While expressing our gratitude to donors who have met and even exceeded official development assistance targets, my delegation would like to appeal to the others to follow suit so that the reforms can be sustained and promoted. The sluggish international economic climate in the last two years has been further compounded by a spate of unusually harsh natural disasters that have affected many parts of the world. We would like to express our heartfelt sympathies to all those in the United States of America, Japan, Nepal, and India who have suffered heavy loss of life and property because of recent natural calamities. The capacity to respond to such disasters should be placed high on the international agenda. This includes long-term investment in environmental conservation and other measures, including early warning facilities, to protect against natural disasters. Bhutan continues to make considerable progress in the field of social and economic development. We are currently in the process of decentralizing the administration in terms of decision-making and implementation of development projects. We are also giving priority to the development of human resources. In all our nation-building activities, we have sought to protect our rich natural environment and distinctive national identity. In our efforts, we have continued to receive generous support from India, Japan, Switzerland, Denmark, the Netherlands, Kuwait, Austria, Norway, Germany, the United Kingdom and Australia, and from various specialized agencies and bodies of the United Nations, particularly the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Fund for Activites (UNFPA), the United Nations Capital Development Fund, (UNCDF), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the World Food Programme (WFP), the United Nations Volunteers (UNV), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). I take this opportunity to express the sincere gratitude of the people and Government of Bhutan to our development partners. This is an age of multilateralism, and the United Nations is the centre around which this new age will revolve. The United Nations is no longer just the Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993 21 preserver of world order but an active promoter of peace and human advancement. Increasing cooperation among its Members since the end of the cold war has made it possible for the Organization to become more effective in pursuing these objectives. The long-term success of the United Nations, in our view, will depend on how democratic it becomes in its functioning and to what extent it will involve all its Members, large and small, in the decision-making process. We hope that the United Nations will become the centerpiece of a more just and equitable world order and will speak for the whole of humanity rather than just for a privileged few. Allow me, on behalf of Venezuela, to extend to you, Sir, our very special congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. It is of great significance to us that the Permanent Representative of Guyana - a country with which we maintain special relations of friendship and cooperation - should be directing the work of this important Assembly. The President of Venezuela, Mr. Ramon J. Velásquez, would have liked to be present on this important occasion. However, the current situation in the country necessitates his remaining in Caracas. In recent months Venezuela has had to assume exceptional responsibilities. Yesterday marked the end of our term as president of the Security Council. During that term, events of vital importance have taken place in the world. In particular, during the past 12 months we have witnessed with horror the re-emergence of hatreds, barbarism and episodes of ethnic cleansing that we thought had been consigned for ever to the saddest and blackest pages of history. In the conflict that is tearing apart the former Republic of Yugoslavia, Venezuela has played an important role - a role widely recognized by the other members of the Council - in the protection of human rights. Acting within the framework of the international bodies, we have sought, above all, to restore peace to that tormented region. The United Nations has accumulated a wealth of experience in the deployment of operations for the maintenance of order - even in some situations in which peace had not yet been attained. With the new situation in the world, an organization that was established for purposes of dialogue and negotiation is faced with challenges of a different kind. From the maintenance of order in a traditional sense, it has moved on to operations that include military aspects, humanitarian, institutional and electoral assistance, the monitoring of human-rights issues and even development aid. In recent months the United Nations has played an active and varied role against an ever-changing international background. This year, too, the world has seen the emergence of new hopes. In one of the most strife-torn regions of the planet, where there appeared to be no prospect of understanding or future coexistence, two old enemies, the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, have taken significant steps towards a joint search for peace and the harmonious development of the two peoples. Venezuela welcomes the Washington agreement between Israel and the PLO, and will work within the framework of the United Nations to achieve a body of measures and resolutions that will help to erase the hatreds of a past that is still too close. Similarly, we support the peace initiatives and the process of demilitarization and the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons that have always been an essential part of the work of this Assembly. Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 9 During our months on the Security Council, we have experienced, at first hand, the accelerated pace of world events today. We are concerned at the uncertainty of the roads to be taken and the instability that prevails in many corners of the world. There are no longer any ideologies, established values or clear directions. Nevertheless, amidst all the confusion a few issues have emerged which could become the single prevalent ideology of mankind. These are human rights, the defence of democracy and the protection of the environment. Last June, in Vienna, the United Nations sponsored that remarkable encounter, the World Conference on Human Rights. We engaged there in a fruitful dialogue between Governments and non-governmental organizations, with the aim of working together to wipe out the injustices that still exist in our countries. In Vienna, we came to realize that the protection of human rights has become a topic of interest to people of different races from all parts of the world. The Conference confirmed the universal value of those rights and reaffirmed that democracy, human rights and development are equally important and mutually reinforcing objectives. The further improvement of democracy might begin in this Organization, where the reform of the Security Council continues to be necessary in order to make its decisions more representative. The General Assembly must attach the proper importance to the discussion of this issue. Venezuela shares the general concern with making the United Nations a more transparent and democratic Organization. The new international scenario calls for a more representative Security Council without exclusive rights that discriminate against some Member States. In the context of the defence of democracy, the United Nations and regional organizations have made outstanding efforts, especially in Haiti, where it is our hope that the lawfully constituted Government will be restored, and in Guatemala, where forces attempting a coup d’état were defeated by the weight of civil society. Today, democratic regimes prevail in almost all of Latin America. However, our democracies are still young and have experienced difficulties in recent months. In Venezuela, we have overcome a severe political crisis which undoubtedly had the result of strengthening our institutions. Following a process which took place entirely within the framework of the law, Mr. Ramón J. Velásquez succeeded to the highest office. He is a distinguished historian, respected by all political forces in the country for the honesty he has shown in his career and for his profound knowledge of the Venezuelan mentality. Democracy is a system of values within which respect for institutions is not only a duty but a necessity. There have always been attempts in Latin America to justify the use of force. Order, the fight against terrorism or communism, the inefficiency of the State: these reasons have often been used to justify regimes that, finally, did not re-establish order but abolished freedom. In the past, this has happened in Venezuela. Today, we have the serenity of waiting for our institutions to function, and we can now say with pride that democracy persists in Venezuela and that we have been able to overcome a serious political crisis. Nevertheless, our future is clouded by economic difficulties. The defence and maintenance of democracy requires the full cooperation of the industrialized countries in the search for a form of economic development that will afford our impoverished peoples a life of dignity. Hence, we support the proposal by the President of the General Assembly, Mr. Samuel Insanally, for a summit to discuss the world’s economic problems and agree on programmes of action to solve them. We agree that the 'Agenda for Peace' put forward by the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, should be complemented by an agenda for development which would place socio-economic problems on the same level as those of a purely political nature. The establishment and preservation of democracy involves reaching a balanced and equitable global growth rate. Balanced growth was the central topic of the first session of the Commission on Sustainable Development in New York. The establishment of that Commission is one of the most significant outcomes of the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro. There is an intimate link between the issue of development, the financial resources required in order to attain it and the strict protection of the environment. Despite the lack of encouraging results, we still believe firmly in the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and we wish to draw particular attention to Principles 3 and 4, which read as follows: Principle 3: 'The right to development must be fulfilled so as to equitably meet developmental and environmental needs of present and future generations.' Principle 4: 'In order to achieve sustainable development, environmental protection shall constitute an 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session integral part of the development process and cannot be considered in isolation from it.' Accordingly, we are greatly concerned at what is happening on Venezuela’s Amazonian border. My country has attached very special importance to the preservation of nature. Fully 17 per cent of our territory consists of specially protected national parks in which economic activities are closely monitored and restricted. On the southern border, in particular, we have had the support of scientific organizations and universities in the establishment of the Alto Orinoco-Casiquiare Biosphere Reserve, covering an area of 60,000 square kilometres. In this zone, by law, economic activities must be compatible with the fragility of the tropical forest ecosystem. Particular importance is attached to the cultural and linguistic heritage of the indigenous peoples, whose way of life has always been compatible with preservation of the environment. Over the past five years, unfortunately, we have undergone a true invasion whose results are disastrous for the environment and which has introduced a climate of violence hitherto unknown in the area. The cause is illegal mining, which, while taking advantage of the forested and inaccessible nature of Amazonia, is destroying rivers and whole hectares of vegetation. This phenomenon has reached a scale large enough to cause concern, to the point that it is escaping control by the States. Just recently - last July - illegal miners massacred a group of Venezuelans, of the Yanomami tribe. Brazil and Venezuela, where the criminal act was carried out, have established an ad hoc commission to investigate the facts and to make sure that the criminals are punished. But the fact that these events can occur gives a clear idea of the seriousness of the situation we are facing in Amazonia. Trees are being cut down, the sources of our great rivers are being deforested, the waters of the great tropical forest are being polluted with mercury and the indigenous population, the original inhabitants of the region, are being murdered. The Amazonian border of Venezuela, 2,200 kilometres long, has been preserved. On our side there is the biosphere reserve, and in Brazil there is the Yanomami park, established in 1992 and covering 94,000 square kilometres. Nevertheless, the deaths of the indigenous Venezuelans show that violence and destruction are beginning to penetrate these protected areas. Illegal mining is a business behind which are the gold and diamond transnationals that arm them, provide them with machinery and build landing strips in the forest. They are deforesting Amazonia. Each year an area of forest the size of Portugal is destroyed. They are wiping out plants and animals: it is estimated that 1,200,000 species will disappear in the next 25 years. They are annihilating the local population, and this in 1993, when the whole world is commemorating the International Year for the World’s Indigenous People. Therefore, Venezuela addresses the international community to denounce this serious environmental situation. All the countries of the Amazon Basin have clearly proclaimed our sovereignty over the land in question. Amazonia belongs to us, but we have the responsibility to protect it, now and for future generations. We must work together to preserve our tropical forest. Each country in the region is making special efforts to take up the challenge of sustainable development in this zone where the ecological balance is so precarious. We particularly welcome the establishment in Brazil of the Ministry of the Environment and the Conservation of Amazonia, which will undoubtedly be an important factor in solving the problem. Only open and sincere dialogue between the countries of the region will enable us to resist the gold and diamond multinationals that are destroying, without regard for morality, this important part of the heritage of mankind. We must live up to the environmental commitments entered into at the Rio Summit. We need technical support and political, economic and social backing to confront the economic interests that are destroying our heritage. I appeal to the mining transnationals to understand that development does not mean destruction; to international agencies to help us implement the principles of sustainable development in this zone; and to the wealthiest countries to understand that, while poverty and ignorance persist among large segments of the population in Latin America, violence and environmental destruction will continue. The United Nations has performed a monumental task in convening the Earth Summit and the Conference on Human Rights, and now the major meetings on population and social development. The resolutions adopted at these conferences are now being violated in Amazonia. Venezuela is making a great effort to ensure the preservation of the environment, often in areas to which access is extremely difficult. We are fighting for human rights among people who are not accustomed to respecting the law. We are trying to proceed in accordance with the principles of sustainable development, standing up to the companies that are seeking only to extract the wealth of the soil at a rapid pace. These are difficult tasks, but we are convinced that this effort is necessary in order to conserve our Amazonia and preserve it for future generations of our peoples and also Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 11 for future generations of all mankind. The United Nations is the appropriate forum for the whole world to learn of our efforts to preserve this territory, its biodiversity and the integrity of its rightful inhabitants. I wish, on behalf of the Uganda delegation, to join those representatives who have already congratulated Mr. Insanally of Guyana on his well- deserved election to the presidency of the United Nations General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. His election to this high office is a tribute to his personal qualities and also an honour to Guyana, with which Uganda enjoys warm and friendly relations. Given his wide experience, and especially his intimate knowledge of the United Nations, I am confident that he will successfully guide its deliberations during the session. In this effort, he can count on Uganda’s cooperation and support. I wish also to express the appreciation of my delegation to Mr. Insanally’s predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, who presided with distinction at the forty-seventh session. Our appreciation goes, equally, to the distinguished Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has provided dynamic and courageous leadership to our Organization. He has come to grips with one of the biggest Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 29 challenges to the international community - conflict resolution - and his incisive reports are an inspiration to us all. It is with happiness that, on behalf of the people and Government of Uganda, I express a warm welcome to the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Eritrea, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Monaco and Andorra as new Members of the United Nations. We look forward to working closely with them in our common efforts to fulfil the objectives and achieve the goals of the Organization. Allow me to convey to the people and Government of India Uganda’s profound sympathy and solidarity following the tragic earthquake that struck that country last week, causing enormous destruction and massive loss of life. The dramatic end of the cold war created a wave of optimism. The ideological rivalry and the attendant confrontation between the major Powers yielded to understanding and cooperation, and the nightmare of the nuclear annihilation of the world receded - even if, in our minds, it was not totally eliminated. We believe that we are witnessing the dawn of a new era that promises the beginning of a new order based on peace, justice and equity - as envisaged in the United Nations Charter - both within and between nations. Whether we can succeed in attaining that lofty goal is one of the challenges of our time. However, the events of the last few years have tempered this sense of optimism. We see contradictory developments - some positive and others negative. On the one hand, there are positive developments in disarmament, the resolution of conflicts, and the emergence of democratic governance in many countries. But, on the other hand, we have witnessed the dangers of ethnic and religious intolerance, which have generated centrifugal forces in many parts of the world, often with debilitating tolls in human life, suffering and the destruction of property. I wish to caution against the danger of making purely ethnic and religious considerations the basis for forging a modern State. The challenge is to find democratic solutions for peaceful and equitable coexistence in a heterogeneous society. The divide between North and South, reflecting affluence on the one hand and widespread poverty and deprivation on the other, is widening. The same division between the haves and the have-nots is reflected within many nations. Clearly, the deterioration of economic conditions in developing countries, if not adequately addressed, can only lead to despair and frustration. In the long run, such developments will pose a danger to international peace and security. The international community should keep at the top of its agenda the urgent task of ensuring that the positive changes ushered in by the demise of the cold war equitably benefit all mankind. It is incumbent upon us to encourage and promote the positive trends while endeavouring to eliminate or minimize the negative aspects. Marginalization of developing countries cannot be in the interest of a better world. We should muster the will to face the political, economic, ecological and social challenges that stand in the way of the emancipation of the developing countries. At the last session of the General Assembly the Secretary-General showed the way forward in his 'An Agenda for Peace', when he outlined his views on how the United Nations should carry out its task of maintaining international peace and security. He underscored the need for an early warning system for crisis situations and the need for timely preventive action, and he suggested peace-building measures that need to be taken. Uganda supported, and continues to support, the Secretary-General’s endeavour in this area. In our view, a critical pillar of conflict resolution, both at the international and the regional level, is the political will of the parties to the conflict and a commitment on their part to translate that will into practical actions. Where that will and commitment exist, solutions have been forthcoming, even to what were perceived as intractable problems. Another critical element in this regard is the capacity to enforce solutions where agreements exist. When a group’s major consideration is military victory, contrary to the agreements reached, this may call for legitimate international intervention. I have in mind, for example, a number of agreements brokered between the parties by regional organizations or the United Nations which have then been deliberately scuttled for no legitimate reason. The situations in Yugoslavia, Somalia, Liberia and Angola are vivid reminders of the need for such a capacity. It is untenable that the international community should fail to act while senseless loss of life is perpetuated or chaos obtains in a country, as was the case in Somalia and Liberia. As many speakers have stated, sovereignty should not be used to hold a population hostage. A capacity to intervene in such situations should be in place. This is the question that we should ponder in the course of our deliberations, with a view to establishing parameters for such eventualities. 30 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session In our continent, Africa, the contradictory positive and negative trends have also manifested themselves, both in the political arena and the economic sphere. In southern Africa, we are on the verge of achieving the goal the international community has always sought, namely, dismantling apartheid and putting in place a democratic and non-racial Government in South Africa. Here we have an example of political will and determination, and the capacity to translate that will into reality. Uganda welcomes the progress made in South Africa and the decision to establish the Transitional Executive Council (TEC), the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) and the Independent Broadcasting Authority (IBA). These are vital steps that should pave the way for free and fair elections next April, which should lead to the establishment of a transitional Government based on universal adult suffrage. We salute Mr. Nelson Mandela and other leaders of the liberation movements and President de Klerk for their vision and statesmanship, which have made this progress possible. With regard to the call to lift sanctions against South Africa in response to this progress, Uganda’s approach has always been guided by the position of the people of South Africa, the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the Commonwealth and the United Nations. We are therefore supportive of the statement adopted on 29 September in New York by the OAU Ad Hoc Committee on Southern Africa, which recommends the lifting of all economic sanctions, with the exception of those relating to the arms embargo and nuclear matters, as recognition of the progress made thus far. We also agree with the Ad Hoc Committee’s call for vigilance until the Transitional Executive Council is established and for the establishment of full diplomatic relations following the installation of an elected interim Government of national unity. As regards Mozambique, Uganda welcomed the signing of a peace accord between the Government of Mozambique and RENAMO on 4 October 1992. We had hoped that by now all obstacles to the implementation of the accord would have been settled. Addressing the Assembly on 27 September, President Chissano, outlined the progress made in the revival of the country’s economic and social activity as a consequence of a cease-fire being effectively honoured. The deployment of the United Nations Operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ) provides an atmosphere conducive to implementing the provisions of the General Peace Agreement. We commend the Government of Mozambique for the flexibility and statesmanship they have demonstrated. We call on RENAMO to reciprocate equally and to comply with Security Council resolution 863 (1993), so that the people of Mozambique can embark on the important task of national reconstruction in an atmosphere of peace and stability. Uganda deeply regrets the resumption of hostilities in Angola, which clearly has negative consequences for the whole region. Remarkable progress had been made, culminating in the United Nations-supervised elections last year. Unfortunately, the hopes and aspirations of the people were dashed by the resumption of hostilities which interrupted the electoral process. The only way forward lies in national reconciliation and the acceptance of the rules of democratic governance. Uganda supports Security Council resolution 864 (1993), the implementation of which would pave way for a lasting solution. It is incumbent upon UNITA to abide by this resolution. In our own region Uganda welcomes the agreement between the two parties, the Rwandese Government and the Rwandese Patriotic Front, on a process of national reconciliation and the installation of a broad-based transitional government. Uganda, like other countries in the region, is ready and willing to support the Rwandese people in their endeavour to find a lasting settlement of their problems. This would also help foster stability and cooperation in our subregion. I wish to pay a tribute to President Ali Hassan Mwinyi and the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, to the Organization of African Unity, and to all those who have been helping the parties to reach this accord. The United Nations has a critical role to play in the implementation of the Rwanda agreements. Both parties to the conflict requested the United Nations to provide a neutral force. We are happy to see that this request has received positive consideration by the Security Council. The Council has accepted the Secretary-General’s recommendation for the establishment of a neutral force known as the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR). In the meantime, Uganda has agreed to the deployment on the Rwanda-Uganda border of the United Nations Observer Mission Uganda-Rwanda (UNOMUR) - as part and parcel of confidence-building measures - and stands ready to give additional support as and when requested. The conflict in southern Sudan continues to be of great concern to, and a source of anguish for, us in Uganda. The civil war has escalated rather than abated, resulting in loss of life, increased refugee flows, and the displacement of the population to neighbouring countries, Uganda included. We urge the parties to the conflict to cooperate in support of Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 31 regional efforts designed to find a lasting solution. I wish also to appeal to the international community to continue providing humanitarian assistance and to be supportive of negotiations for a peaceful settlement. The situation in Somalia is a vivid example of both natural and man-made disasters. Uganda welcomed the decision of the Security Council in 1992 to provide humanitarian assistance to the Somali people and to restore order in Somalia. The United Nations operations helped to end massive starvation and brought hope to the people of Somalia. Uganda is also supportive of the second United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II), whose mandate is to provide an appropriate atmosphere for continued humanitarian assistance and for reconstruction and rehabilitation, and to facilitate an overall political settlement. We were encouraged by the Addis Ababa agreement of March this year whereby various Somali political forces agreed upon a programme of disarmament and reconciliation. It is sad that the situation in Somalia took a dramatic turn for the worse with the killing of members of the United Nations peace-keeping force. We regret the loss of life and attacks on the peace-keeping force. I wish to express our sincere condolences to the bereaved families and their respective Governments. It remains our conviction that these incidents, reprehensible as they are, should not lead the United Nations to divert from, let alone abdicate, its responsibilities towards the Somali people. Much has been achieved. Normalcy has been restored to much of the country, although chaos and armed resistance continue in a number of areas, especially in and around Mogadishu, where they imperil international efforts. We call on Somali political leaders to cooperate with the Intergovernmental Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD), the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the United Nations in efforts aimed at achieving peace and reconciliation and setting in motion transitional arrangements, including the establishment of a broad-based government. I wish to take this opportunity to commend United Nations personnel, the countries which have provided material and financial support, and the volunteers who have risked their lives in this worthy cause. As regards the situation in Liberia, Uganda supports the initiative of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) for the settlement of the crisis. We welcomed the Cotonou Agreement signed on 25 July 1993, which provides for a cease-fire and for the transitional arrangement leading to elections early next year. The ECOWAS Miliary Observer Group (ECOMOG) has clearly been a stabilizing force in Liberia. That is why it has been entrusted with the supervision and implementation of the Cotonou Agreement. We look forward to the full implementation of this accord. All this provides an example of the matching of the political will of the parties to the conflict to the capacity in the region to implement the agreed settlement. Equally, the Security Council decision to make it easier for the United Nations to supplement regional efforts in the search for agreements and in their implementation is most welcome. Apart from enhancing the regional capacity for peace-keeping, the Security Council decision helps to engender confidence. At the OAU Summit held in Cairo in July this year, African States agreed to set up, within the OAU, a mechanism for conflict resolution. The positive developments in Liberia and Rwanda, where the OAU and the pertinent leaders in the subregion have effectively discharged this role, are indicative of the potentialities of the regional mechanism. In the Middle East, the mutual recognition between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel, together with the agreements signed between them, constitute a breakthrough of historic proportions. This is yet another illustration of the dictum that where there is a will, vision and statesmanship, a way forward will be found. This development holds the promise for concord and cooperation in the Middle East region as a whole. We welcome the Declaration of Principles on Palestinian interim self-rule in the occupied territories. These arrangements, which envisage a five-year transition period, are an important step towards a comprehensive and lasting settlement in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). We commend Chairman Arafat and Prime Minister Rabin for the courage and statesmanship they have displayed. We encourage all of them to persevere in the task ahead and on the journey they have begun. I wish also to express Uganda’s appreciation to Norway, the United States, the Russian Federation, and all those who were instrumental in the reaching of this historic accord. Three years have elapsed since the outbreak of the Gulf crisis. We are glad that the sovereignty of Kuwait was restored. It remains our hope that, with positive developments elsewhere in the region, it will be possible for the people in the Gulf to be reconciled and to solve the outstanding problems so that harmony and cooperation can be re-established. This requires, among other things, 32 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session compliance with Security Council resolutions relating to the Gulf War settlement. Uganda supports the efforts by the Secretary-General to ensure an overall settlement of the Cyprus problem. Any settlement, while taking into account the legitimate interests of the parties, should safeguard the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of Cyprus. As regards the Korean peninsula, Uganda supports the aspiration of the Korean people to peaceful reunification. We encourage them to continue their dialogue towards this objective. In Cambodia we have just witnessed the fruitful completion of the peace process in accordance with the Paris Agreements. Under the auspices of the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) the Cambodian people have been able to exercise their right to vote and to decide on their own Government in the general elections for a constituent assembly. We are happy to see that a new democratic Constitution, with a constitutional monarchy has been peacefully promulgated. I wish to express the gratitude of the Uganda delegation to the Secretary-General and the UNTAC personnel who, under the able leadership of Mr. Yasushi Akashi, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, have contributed towards a comprehensive settlement of the Cambodian question. Our appreciation goes equally to Viet Nam, France, Australia, China, the United States of America and the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), which, at different stages, contributed to the peace process. It is to us a matter of deep regret that in the former Yugoslavia, instability, strife and war based on ethnic and religious differences continue unabated. In pursuit of the reprehensible notion of 'ethnic cleansing', atrocities are being committed. In spite of the grave situation, it has not been possible for the Security Council and the international community to act decisively to put an end to the agony and suffering there. The injunctions of the Security Council continue to be flouted with impunity. We reject and condemn the notion of 'ethnic cleansing'. I wish, however, to commend the United Nations Protection Force for the efforts it has made under the most difficult of conditions. On disarmament, Uganda is encouraged by the progress achieved in the wake of the demise of the cold war. The United States and the Russian Federation under START II have significantly reduced their nuclear arsenals. We were encouraged by the decision of the United States to extend the moratorium on nuclear tests until 1994, by the declaration of Russia not to resume testing even if others did, and by France’s commitment not to be the first to resume. In spite of the recent set-backs, we hope that this moratorium will hold. Uganda, however, believes that a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty is the ultimate solution. As a State party to the non-proliferation Treaty, we shall continue to participate actively in the preparatory process leading to the 1995 Review Conference. We support the extension of the Treaty, subject to periodic reviews. We shall also seek to remove the imbalances in the present Treaty and to secure increased assistance for developing countries in the area of the peaceful application of nuclear energy. We maintain that there exists an intrinsic relationship between the disarmament process and development. Developing countries paid a heavy price during the height of the cold war as world attention was focused on acquiring additional armaments under the doctrines of deterrence. Many of them were trapped in civil conflict arising from ideological wars. As the resources devoted to building armaments are released in the disarmament process, these should be applied for development both within and between nations. Unfortunately, at the international level, we have yet to see the peace dividend being channelled towards assistance to developing countries. At the national level, Uganda, after the restoration of peace in the country, has now embarked on a process of scaling down its army to a level which the economy can sustain and which at the same time meets our legitimate defence needs. This is a bold decision by the Government, which, in the long run, should release resources for development purposes. I wish here to express our appreciation to those countries and organizations which have agreed to assist us in the resettlement and integration of demobilized soldiers within the civilian community. This session is taking place in the aftermath of the momentous World Conference on Human Rights that took place in Vienna. That Conference reaffirmed the commitment of the international community to try to secure the full and universal enjoyment of human rights. We hope that as a result there will be increased awareness in the world of the importance of human rights and a determination to build the requisite capacity at the national and local levels to ensure their enforcement. Linked with the human rights issue is the question of democratic governance and the rule of law. Democratic governance promotes human rights. In Uganda, as part of the restoration of democratic civilian rule, the Constitutional Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 33 Commission has already produced a draft constitution. The election of a Constituent Assembly, which is to deliberate and agree on the Constitution, will be held in December this year or early next year. Whether in Africa or anywhere else, the democratization process may be difficult, but it is an essential ingredient for peace, stability, the rule of law, and the full respect and enjoyment of human rights. This is particularly urgent in developing countries, in Africa in particular. They are essential aspects and conditions of the development process. We must therefore bring our full energies to bear so that the democratization process may gain momentum. One of the major objectives of the United Nations, enshrined in the Charter, is the promotion of economic and social progress. In our quest for peace, it is imperative to address the economic and social challenges, which, too often, are the fundamental causes of conflicts in many regions. The present world economic situation is very grim. There has been a prolonged recession in the developed countries which, in turn, has had a negative effect on the world economic situation. This has been devastating for the developing countries, which have had to labour in a harsh international environment. The crippling external debt is one of the major obstacles for developing countries. In Uganda, for example, it is estimated that we shall spend about 60 per cent of our projected export receipts on debt servicing. The debt problem has been exacerbated by the unfavourable terms of trade, especially the collapse of the prices of commodities, which are the mainstay of our economies. Coupled with the reduction of resource flows, this has hampered our development. Yet, while still experiencing these conditions, our countries have undertaken structural adjustment reforms which call for heavy sacrifices on the part of the population, especially the very vulnerable people. For these programmes to achieve the desired objectives of sustained growth, it is imperative that further measures on debt relief, including debt cancellation, be put in place, more so in respect of sub-Saharan African countries. There is also an urgent need to increase significantly the volume of resource flows in support of development efforts in these countries. We look forward to the urgent and balanced conclusion of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations. We are hopeful that a successful conclusion of these negotiations would increase world trade and increase the access of our products to world markets. This should help to increase our export earnings. Regrettably, for Africa the critical economic situation and the trend of marginalization continue. It is crucial to arrest and reverse this trend if Africa is to succeed or even survive in the geopolitical and economic system of the twenty-first century. We need to enlarge our economic space. Forging regional integration is an imperative if Africa is to end its underdevelopment and to be integrated into the global economy. African integration will create economies of scale, which are essential for the diversification of the African economies, making full use of Africa’s natural resources, increasing self-sufficiency and strengthening the continent’s position within the global economy. It is precisely for this reason that the Organization of African Unity adopted the Abuja Treaty creating an African Economic Community. The Treaty stipulates, inter alia, the strengthening of subregional economic groupings. In this regard, the countries of the Eastern and Southern Africa Preferential Trade Area have resolved to establish a subregional common market. A treaty to this effect will be signed in Kampala, Uganda, on 4 November this year. We appeal to the international community to be supportive of regional integration by providing assistance to put in place the necessary infrastructures. The Rio Earth summit was an important milestone on the road to forging a global consensus on sustainable development. Uganda welcomes the adoption of Agenda 21, which spelled out measures to be adopted by the international community. As a follow-up, Uganda has drawn up a National Environment Action Plan to address our environmental problems. We welcome the establishment of the Commission on Sustainable Development and of the Negotiating Committee for an international convention on drought and desertification, in line with the wishes of African countries. In spite of the progress made, we notice a reluctance on the part of the donor community as regards fulfilling the commitments agreed upon in Rio. This is especially true with regard to providing new and additional resources. I wish to stress that for us in Uganda the cause of environmental degradation is poverty. Forests, for example, are being depleted daily because the people use their trees as a source of energy. To reverse this trend we need capital to exploit hydro-electric power or solar energy, both of which we have aplenty. We urge the international community to appreciate this problem. As regards reform of the United Nations, we maintain our position that we shall support those measures which 34 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session improve efficiency and which do not distort the priorities that have been agreed on, and which reflect the interests of all Member States. We are also supportive of the proposals for the enlargement of the Security Council to reflect present-day realities. We reaffirm that an important criterion to take into account is that a country, big or small, seeking membership of the Security Council must fully embrace, and be seen to act in accordance with, the underlying values of the United Nations mandate for peace, respect for human rights, democratization and other accepted international norms. It is also important that the composition of all United Nations organs accord with the principles of the Charter, notably the principle of sovereign equality of nations and the principle of democracy. It is with this in mind that we shall examine all proposals for restructuring that are before us. We stand at a historic watershed on account of contradictory trends which characterize the current transition to a new world order yet to be shaped and defined. We have, one hopes, a unique opportunity to construct a firm foundation for the edifice of a future in which the interests of all of us can be adequately catered for. I should like first to take this opportunity to extend to the delegation of India the sincerest condolences of the delegation of Gabon on the earthquake that has just hit the region of Sholapur. The present session of the General Assembly is convened at a crucial juncture in the history of international relations. A number of significant events have occurred on the world stage in the past few years. In that context the election of Ambassador Samuel Insanally as President of the General Assembly is particularly significant. It is a tribute not only to his qualities as an enlightened diplomatic, well versed in international questions, but to the tireless work of Guyana, his country, on behalf of peace. On behalf of the delegation of Gabon, I extend to him our warmest congratulations on his election to preside over this session. Our congratulations also go to the outgoing President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, who discharged his duties so honourably and ably. To our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, I repeat our firm support for his many efforts on behalf of world peace and security. Lastly, we should like to welcome the new countries that have just joined the great family of the United Nations and to assure them of our friendship and readiness to work with them to achieve the noble purposes for the attainment of which the Organization was founded. The end of the cold war has made it possible to establish new kinds of relations between States and to open the way to a new era of hope, peace and solidarity, promoting conflict prevention, better ways of dealing with acute problems and the settlement of many of the conflicts threatening international peace and security. It is from that perspective that we should view the recent initiatives which the Organization and the international community have undertaken. Gabon welcomes with great interest the most recent political developments in South Africa. We welcome the creation of a Transitional Executive Council, which will allow South Africans for the first time to take part in building a new, democratic, non-racial and united South Africa. In that spirit, we urge all other parties to accede to the agreement creating the Council and hope they will work towards its full implementation. Gabon believes that the changes taking place in South Africa will have a definite impact on the democratization process in Africa and on the continent’s development. We therefore hope that the appeal made here on 24 September 1993 by President Nelson Mandela for the lifting of economic sanctions and the establishment of diplomatic relations with South Africa will be heard and acted upon. In Somalia too many innocent victims continue to pay the heavy daily price of violence. While praising the efforts of the United Nations to bring peace and national reconciliation to the country, we believe that the time has perhaps come for the international community to give priority to the path of dialogue and negotiation. The situation in Liberia remains a source of concern, despite the hopes raised by the signing of the Cotonou Agreement on 25 July 1993. We call on the parties concerned to begin strict implementation of that Agreement. We make a similar appeal to the parties to the conflicts in Mozambique, Rwanda and Angola. Turning specifically to Angola, I note that the optimism prevailing after the Bicesse Peace Accords soon gave way to disappointment born of the resumption of hostilities. In that brother country, so close to my own, the perpetuation of the situation leads me to praise the tireless efforts of the United Nations and all other initiatives aimed at restoring peace and security. As in the past, Gabon will spare no efforts to help achieve a lasting settlement of that conflict. In the Middle East the mutual recognition of Israel and the PLO, as well as the recent signing of the interim 40 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session arrangements for the autonomy of Gaza and Jericho, were welcomed with relief and deep satisfaction by my country. We dare hope that this historic agreement will promote reconciliation between the Israeli and Palestinian peoples and the establishment of a climate of peace and cooperation in the region. In that regard, my country supports all United Nations initiatives, particularly Security Council resolution 833 (1993), aimed at ensuring respect for the inviolability of the international boundary between Iraq and Kuwait, in accordance with the terms of the 1963 arrangements. In South-East Asia we welcome the decisive role played by the United Nations in the restoration of peace in Cambodia. The holding of free and fair elections in May 1993, the creation of the Constituent Assembly, and the return to the throne of His Royal Highness Prince Norodom Sihanouk all illustrate the United Nations commitment and the confirmed solidarity of the international community. The tragedy unfolding in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the serious threat of the conflict’s spreading to the entire subregion are a source of concern for my country. We make an urgent appeal to the parties concerned to return to the negotiating table and lay down their arms. The Conferences recently held in Vienna and Geneva on human rights and the protection of the victims of war, respectively, were opportunities for our Organization to reaffirm its commitment to defending human rights. Gabon, which has always given these questions their due consideration, encourages all United Nations efforts to protect human rights. It would thus be appropriate to strengthen existing structures with additional human and financial resources so as to promote the efficiency sought by our Organization in this area. Never has our Organization been called on to such a degree by the international community as in the past few years. If it is to meet all the expectations, it must adapt its main organs to the demands of the times. We welcome the ongoing reform and revitalization process and hope that it will include consideration of equitable representation in the Security Council and an increase in the number of its members. One area which our Organization must explore further is that of preventive diplomacy, as set forth by the Secretary- General in his 'An Agenda for Peace'. Reflecting that trend, the Organization of African Unity has just created machinery to prevent, manage and settle conflicts. If it is to be effective, this new machinery must be integrated into the framework of global disarmament. The progress made by last 13 January, when the chemical-weapons Convention was signed, shows the international community’s determination to ban weapons of mass destruction, particularly chemical weapons, and its readiness to work for general and complete disarmament. For its part, my country is working towards that end, just as it is promoting confidence-building measures in central Africa. It was in keeping with this involvement that we hosted the third meeting of the Permanent Consultative Committee on security questions in our subregion. This meeting was notable for bringing together, for the first time, all States members of the Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS). In the course of its work the Committee stressed the advantages for all States of the subregion of ratifying international legal instruments on disarmament matters. It recommended that its Bureau play a more committed political role in seeking solutions to crises and conflicts likely to disturb the peace of a member State. It encouraged States in the subregion to pursue and strengthen the democratization process already under way, while respecting and promoting human rights. Regarding the creation of a permanent inter-State crisis management headquarters, with a view to establishing a subregional peace-keeping force, the Committee recommended transitional measures, including the involvement of ECCAS in the field of security; a study of features and types of crises and conflicts; and the creation of a non-permanent committee of subregional staff offices. It further recommended that the United Nations be asked for assistance to carry out a study on a balanced and gradual reduction of the armed forces, equipment and military budgets of member States. Finally, the Committee adopted a draft non-aggression pact between the ECCAS member States and decided to submit it to Heads of State or Government of the subregion for signature. As representative of the host country at these important meetings, and on behalf of the States of the subregion, it is my honour and privilege to invite the General Assembly in due course to endorse the draft resolution, which will be submitted to it for consideration. What is truly at stake for Africa is essentially the economy. It will determine to a great extent the preservation of unity, peace and security on our continent. In that regard, the marginalization of Africa in the world economy - as a Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 41 result of the decline of its commodity prices, the reversal of financial resource flows from our countries to the international financial institutions, and the debt burden - has only grown during the past five years. Already experiencing such a restrictive economic environment, how can we in my country welcome the idea of an energy tax and not deplore the threat of a boycott of our forest products by ecological groups in the industrialized countries? As to the forest, the Gabon authorities have always favoured the long-term management of our forests, through a logical policy of reforestation conforming with the recommendations of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. My country stresses the need to maintain every aspect of the Rio spirit aimed at managing world problems in a global manner, and to promote the emergence of a new partnership in international economic and financial relations. Gabon considers this new approach to be a possible avenue for the development of our countries. In this connection, we would like to congratulate the Japanese authorities on their initiative in organizing the International Conference on African Development, scheduled to be held in Tokyo in October. We hope that Conference will serve as the basis for a real and lasting partnership. In this context, the proposal made by the President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session in his opening address that we create an agenda for development should enjoy the full support of our Organization. In conclusion, turning to our country’s development problems, I feel that I must draw the attention of the Assembly to the decisive role to be played by women. Our Organization has adopted resolutions and declarations on this subject. The political commitment has been made, but it must be associated with consistent follow-up measures to implement these provisions. This is a struggle that we must all of us become involved in. Anxious to take into account the role of women in the political, economic, social and cultural fields, the Gabonese Government, through the Ministry responsible for the status of women, is working towards making this commitment a reality. The sessions of the General Assembly are for Member States an excellent opportunity to seek together ways and means of attaining the noble objectives of the Charter. Is not one of its most important goals 'To achieve international cooperation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character'? May I express my gratitude for the honour of representing for the first time, as Head of State, the independent country of Uzbekistan at the United Nations General Assembly. We see the United Nations as a unique institution for the discussion and solution of the most urgent issues facing all States and regions and the world community at large. The United Nations is a great symbol of the good will of nations to live in peace and accord has become a clear sign of mankind’s spiritual progress. At a time of radical historic transformation and growing interdependency in the modern world, the global role and significance of the United Nations is growing correspondingly as a political instrument for the world in the consideration and solution of common human problems. Independent Uzbekistan, recognized by all States, has now become a full-fledged member of the United Nations. Embassies of many countries and offices of various international agencies have been opened in the Republic. I am pleased to acknowledge the fruitful activities of the United Nations Office in Uzbekistan, the opening of which was undertaken on the personal initiative of the Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. I should like to take this opportunity, on behalf of my people and the Government of Uzbekistan, to express sincere gratitude to the United Nations and all its Member States for their recognition and support of my country’s independence. Uzbekistan, with its population of 22 million, constitutes both the geographical and political basis of Central Asia. One of the most ancient world civilizations emerged in the region, and this land was crossed by the Great Silk Road. The history of my people goes back deep into the past, being more than 3,000 years old. Once- prosperous empires and kingdoms in the territory of ancient Turan, Transoxania and Turkistan had a marked impact on the development of world culture. The cities of Tashkent, Samarkand, Bukhara and Khiva have been known far and wide since time immemorial and have had trade links stretching from China to Spain and from Europe to the Indian Ocean. These cities were noted for magnificent architectural structures and attracted outstanding thinkers, scholars and artists from all parts of the world. The great Tamerlane turned Samarkand into a capital city of his empire and was famous as a patron of scholars, philosophers, architects, poets and musicians. Spiritual, intellectual and aesthetic values have had a profound effect in shaping the way of life and traditional culture of our people. We are proud of our history and revere the memory of our great ancestors, the thinkers of the East: Al-Bukhari, Al-Termezi, Ahmad Yassavi, Bahaudin Naqshbandi, Al-Kworazmi, Beruni, Avicenna, Nawai, Ulugh Beg and many others who made an invaluable contribution to world civilization. Having declared its independence, Uzbekistan has now entered an era of spiritual and intellectual renaissance and radical transformation in the economic, political and social spheres. We have embarked on the building of a democratic, lawful and secular society with an open-market economy and a strong system of social welfare. There is consent among the people of Uzbekistan on the need, directions and forms of developing political institutions, and there is now perceptible progress towards democratic transformation. The new Fundamental Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan, adopted last December, has been highly received by independent international experts and meets the essential criteria of a democratic constitution while ensuring all human rights and basic freedoms of citizens. Free and contested general elections have been held for Head of State and the Parliament. There is a clear separation of powers in the country, and the multi-party system is gaining strength. Our people have regained their freedom following more than 100 years of oppression and now have an opportunity to decide their own destiny, develop their culture and bring about their spiritual renaissance. The Republic, inhabited by people of more than 100 nations and nationalities, provides all ethnic groups with broad and equal opportunities for the development of their national cultures, traditions and languages. We are proud that, despite the difficulties of transition, Uzbekistan has been able to preserve political stability, peace and ethnic accord. The Republic of Uzbekistan is a country of great potential, unique natural resources and a promising future. About half of its population is below the age of 18. It is third in the world in cotton production, eighth in gold extraction, tenth in the production of copper and is among the leading nations in deposits of rare metals and strategic raw materials. Uzbekistan possesses huge energy resources and has much more to offer the world market. It has long traditions of craftsmanship, trade, commerce and farming and is a great country for tourism. The Republic has a powerful scientific, intellectual and spiritual potential. Research carried out by our scientists in the fields of mathematics, physics and biology has won renown far beyond the region. But our principal wealth is an open, hard-working, hospitable and proud people noted for its sense of honour and dignity. Free Uzbekistan has chosen its own path to reforming society and has elaborated its own model for transition to a democratic society and a free market economy. At the same time, we are quite aware that the Republic - which earlier served as a raw-materials appendage of the former Soviet Union, exporting cheap raw materials and importing low-quality finished products - with a hypertrophied economy and devastated environment, can hardly be expected to overcome in a short span of time the situation it has inherited. Given the high birth rate, acute problems of employment and considerable material difficulties, economic and spiritual development can be expected to outstrip political transformation. We must work out a solid legal foundation, educate people in living in a law-abiding society, encourage tolerance of diverse views and opinions and, above all, change the mentality of the people, whose outlook was shaped by the command-administrative and totalitarian-distributive system we lived under for the last 74 years. Any other approach, or a thoughtless acceleration of events, may lead to conflicts and civil confrontation in many countries of the former socialist camp. As we have seen, such approaches have led to civil confrontation, inter-ethnic clashes and the further proliferation of problems, rather than to their solution, and may discredit the very idea of a free - market economy and democratic reform. This can be seen quite clearly from the examples of those countries that are now going through a very difficult time in their history. It has become evident today that there are no universal models of social and economic development that are equally acceptable to all countries. There seems to remain no marked difference between the orthodox concepts of capitalism and socialism. The need has emerged to shape new and free thinking without ideological indoctrination, which would reveal the entire diversity of the forms and ways for each country’s transition to an entirely new condition. Taking into consideration the concrete situation, mentality and traditions of the Uzbek people, we have proclaimed five basic principles of our reform. First, we have proclaimed the priority of the economy over politics and the de-ideologization of both domestic and external Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 3 economic relations. Secondly, we consider that the State needs to play the role of main reformer and initiator of democratic transformation in our Republic during the transition period. Thirdly, we proclaim the preservation of law and order and the supremacy of law. Fourthly, we believe it is of exceptional importance to have a strong social policy protecting the interests of all citizens, especially the neediest and those requiring Government support. Finally, we believe the transition to free-market relations will have to be carried out gradually, on an evolutionary basis. A popular saying in our country goes, 'Never destroy the old house before you have built a new one.' Social stability and State security are vital factors in democratic reform. Hardly any other problem can be solved without them. Uzbekistan has steadfastly and consistently supported security and stability in all regions, especially in our own, Central Asia. The specific characteristics of our region and its geopolitical situation are such that negative developments may trigger world-wide instability. Suffice it to say that about 60 million people associated with various - and I stress, various - ethnic and religious groups live in Central Asia. Both nuclear and conventional arms of tremendous destructive force have been accumulated in this region, and any violence may result in disasters of unforeseeable magnitude. In this connection, one cannot avoid discussing the situation in Tajikistan and on the Tajik-Afghan border. One could argue about the political interests of the parties involved; however, there is no doubt that the bloody conflict in Tajikistan has arisen as a result of the unlawful efforts of one of the sides to seize power through the force of arms and intimidation and maintain it on the basis of continued material and ideological interference from the outside. Thus, numerous political forces and different parts of the population have become involved in this armed conflict. It has been internationalized also because financial and logistical support of anti-government fighting units with military equipment, as well as training centres, were located beyond the borders of Tajikistan. The Government of Uzbekistan is concerned at the continued conflict in Tajikistan and on the Tajik-Afghan border, primarily because for centuries the peoples of Central Asia have been linked by close economic, spiritual and cultural relations. At the present time, there are in essence no real borders in the classical sense among the countries of the region. That is why any outbreak of conflict for purely geographical reasons may affect the whole region. We are also concerned at the uncontrolled accumulation of modern arms in huge quantities. Where do they come from, and who is arming the extremists and terrorists? What is the world community doing, and what should it do to prevent the flow of arms into zones of fratricidal conflict? These burning issues, which affect millions of people and entire nations, are awaiting a solution. The problem of Tajik refugees has become extremely serious as their conflict escalates. Tens of thousands of peaceful people have been compelled to leave their homes. Uzbekistan is sending food products, medicine and other vital necessities to Tajikistan and is encouraging the return of the refugees, and through the United Nations office supports the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for the rendering of humanitarian assistance. Uzbekistan resolutely condemns extremism, terrorism, religious fanaticism and fundamentalism in any form. It is in favour of the peaceful resolution of conflicts by political means, of holding negotiations between opposing parties, and of non-interference in the internal affairs of sovereign States, and it is prepared to render further humanitarian assistance to the Tajik people, primarily to refugees returning from Afghanistan. In the early stages of the conflict in Tajikistan, Uzbekistan twice drew the attention of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to the urgent need for thorough consideration of the situation and its settlement within the framework of the United Nations. We are grateful to the United Nations and to the Secretary-General for their prompt response to the concern we expressed and for their efforts to settle the conflict. We believe that the international community will properly appreciate this contribution to peace. A United Nations mission headed by Mr. Kittani, the Secretary-General’s Special Envoy, has been working fruitfully in the region. Data collected by the mission have, in our view, provided an opportunity to draw objective conclusions as to the nature and the driving forces of the conflict at a meeting of the United Nations Security Council. Nevertheless, there is hardly any basis today on which to talk about sufficient attention being paid to the situation on the Tajik-Afghan border in the light of the current situation in Tajikistan as well as in Afghanistan. We have not understood the scale and potential of this conflict and its globally devastating consequences. I should like to take this opportunity to appeal to participants in this session of the General Assembly to express their constructive views on ways of solving this problem. 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Uzbekistan would welcome the convening of a standing United Nations seminar on security, stability and cooperation in Central Asia. Tashkent, a city with peacemaking traditions, steeped in the spirit of international cooperation and ethnic accord, is prepared to be the venue for this seminar. In accordance with Article 52 of the United Nations Charter, the parties involved could discuss, within the framework of the United Nations seminar, the possibilities of setting up an effective system of regional security in Central Asia. Such a system could contemplate measures for the preservation and restoration of peace in case of conflicts and wars, including collective sanctions of a diplomatic, financial, economic and other nature against those who today would venture to violate peace and existing borders, and produce recommendations for the United Nations on the establishment of stability and lasting peace in this region. Uzbekistan supports the idea of a new role for the United Nations as a global institution in safeguarding security on Earth, which was advanced by the Secretary- General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, in his 'An Agenda for Peace' (A/47/277), which he outlined in the Security Council on 31 January 1992. We invite the Secretary-General to pay a visit to the Central Asian region, including the Republic of Uzbekistan. I am sure that the authority of the United Nations and the Secretary-General will make it possible to prevent the negative development of events in the region. In 'An Agenda for Peace', Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali attaches great importance to preventive diplomacy in today’s world, which coincides fully with our own view. From this lofty international rostrum, I wish to call upon the United Nations to strengthen further its peacemaking work, specifically in zones of emerging conflicts. It must unfortunately be admitted that, in many cases, authoritative international agencies react to conflict situations not when - speaking figuratively - they smell smoke, but only afterwards, when the fire has already flared up and is almost impossible to put out. To prevent the escalation of conflicts, the international community should abandon the role of passive observer it so often plays and instead adopt the stance of an active peacemaker. It would be expedient in this regard to establish a special group under the United Nations Security Council to analyse and forecast emerging international conflicts for the purpose of rapidly preparing recommendations for the Security Council, other United Nations agencies and the world community so that the necessary measures can be taken. Current realities in the world today show that the security of one nation cannot be guaranteed at the expense of another State and that regional security can be viewed solely in concert with global security. On this basis, Uzbekistan is in favour of the total abolition of nuclear weapons. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons will have to become a more efficient treaty, unrestricted by any time limits. Our Republic will actively participate in preliminary negotiations for the preparation of a conference on the prolongation of this Treaty. Uzbekistan is a staunch supporter of proclaiming Central Asia a nuclear-free zone. We are firmly determined also to hold negotiations on signing the chemical weapons Convention. Uzbekistan considers that we need international control over the proliferation of chemical and bacteriological weapons in Central Asia. I should like to draw particular attention, among other top-priority problems, to the question of stepping up our common efforts against narcobusiness. We would like to see a large-scale cooperation in the struggle against this scourge, this white death. It is a secret to no one that a large percentage of the narcotics consumed throughout the world are produced in and transported through Central Asia. Concentration of narcobusiness in a single region alone provides sufficient ground for the world community to focus its efforts on the elimination of this horrible business. Uzbekistan is ready to cooperate in this area with all interested countries and organizations. We would welcome the establishment, under the aegis of the United Nations, of a regional commission on Central Asia for the coordination of joint efforts in the fight against narcobusiness. We also favour greater United Nations involvement in controlling the environment and preventing global ecological disasters, and we are ready to facilitate the implementation of that noble mission by all available means. Like so many regions of the planet, Central Asia faces an ecological disaster on an unprecedented scale. First and foremost, there is the tragedy of the Aral Sea. In recent years it has lost two thirds of its volume, its water table has shrunk by half and its shoreline has retreated 80 kilometers, the content of mineral salts has increased fourfold, 2 million hectares of arable land have become desert, and sandstorms range at distances greater than 300 kilometers from it. All this adversely affects the sanitary and health situation in the Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 5 region. In its ecological and socio-economic consequences, the problem of the Aral Sea, according to United Nations experts, is one of the major calamities of the twentieth century. The death of the Aral Sea may have unpredictable affects the whole world. We appeal to the world community to render assistance in saving the Aral Sea and the adjoining zone. In light of the global nature of this disaster, Uzbekistan would appreciate the establishment of a United Nations special commission on the Aral Sea which, in coordination with the region’s Governments, and through United Nations channels, would attract international resources and opportunities for the solution of this ecological tragedy. As a first step, this commission could hold an international conference under United Nations aegis in Nukus, bordering on the Aral Sea. Uzbekistan became independent at the end of the cold war. This new epoch requires a new and sober assessment of all problems facing the United Nations and the world community. We are concerned by the growing suspicion between the advanced countries of the North and the developing countries of the South. We regret that the former ideological intolerance between East and West is now being replaced by ethnic and religious intolerance. We are also concerned about the growing trend towards fundamentalism, extremism and terrorism. In our view, under the circumstances, the United Nations should be the world’s principal tool for the prevention of new hotbeds of confrontation which could jeopardize human progress. We believe that urgent and effective measures are now necessary so that a key organ of the United Nations - the Security Council - can adequately reflect the socio-economic, ethno-cultural, religious and spiritual diversity of today’s world; its currently conservative structure should be reconsidered. The world’s nations are on the threshold of a new millennium. They want to face a bright, promising future and leave behind the cataclysms of past global ideological confrontation. There is growing conviction that there is no alternative to peace, cooperation and universal security. What will the future of mankind be like? What kind of new era is opening? Will it succeed in overcoming the heavy legacy of the past? Will it achieve openness and sincerity in inter-State relations, eliminating mutual suspicion, distrust and diktat, particularly the latter? The future of the community of nations depends on the answers to these questions. Uzbekistan is determined to progress steadily towards the achievement of its national objectives, in harmony with the common interests of the world community and the deep democratic processes that characterize the current level of its development. The Uzbek people are aware that hard times still lie ahead but they are assured of a great future in the single family of mankind. It gives me pleasure to convey to you, Sir, on my own behalf and on behalf of the delegation of Yemen, my most sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I have no doubt that you deserve the trust that has been placed in you by the Member States of this great international Organization. Your personal qualities, long experience, sagacity and tact make you eminently qualified to conduct the deliberations of this session with excellence and effectiveness. Just as your election attests to your high standing at the international level, it bespeaks the esteem in which your country is held by other countries the world over. We wish you every success in the important tasks assigned to you and trust this session will achieve its important goals so as to strengthen the functioning of the United Nations and its organs and enhance their effectiveness. I should also like to take this opportunity to express our thanks and appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Ganev of Bulgaria, for the important role he played in guiding the work and deliberations of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I cannot fail to extend my best wishes to the Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts aimed at strengthening the work of our great Organization, upholding the principles and achieving the goals of its Charter. We should also like to express our appreciation for his annual report (A/48/1) on the work of the United Nations, in which he deals with the most important items on the agenda of this session. We should also like to avail ourselves of this opportunity to welcome those States that have recently joined the United Nations and wish them every success. Their presence here among us attests to the international and universal nature of the Organization and contributes to the attainment of our common goals, in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter. This is the fourth session in which the Republic of Yemen is represented by one delegation, whereas in the past it was represented by two. On 22 May 1990, our country regained its unity after about two centuries of disunity in the course of which a power struggle raged between the occupiers of various parts of the country. This reached its peak on 30 November 1967, when Yemen was divided into two States. Although that miraculous unitary achievement of four years ago seemed impossible, our people and its wise leaders were able to bring it about, and other peoples that are still divided may look upon our example with hope. Our people fought and made many sacrifices over many generations for the attainment of that objective. The unity of our homeland has been characterized by pluralism, multilateralism and democracy. Furthermore, on 27 April of this year the Republic of Yemen crowned its march towards democracy with general parliamentary elections that were free, impartial and honest. Representatives of international organizations that defend democratic ideals participated by following those elections closely and monitoring their proper procedure. Western and Arab monitors welcomed that democratic exercise in Yemen, and The New York Times described the events in our country as 'a true Arab revolution'. In the light of all this, we believe we are justified in feeling a sense of pride as we take part in this session against the backdrop of such achievement by a country that has worked two miracles which no one thought possible only four years ago. Our success in opting for democracy on the basis of pluralism and the multiparty system clearly demonstrates that the seeds of democracy can germinate in any soil once it is planted and is not the preserve of any special soil. No one should marvel, however, at the success of democracy in our country. Yemen, as historians know, was the first cradle of the practice of 'Shura', that is to say parliamentary activity, from as far back as the days of the Kingdom of Sabã 2,800 years ago. This is attested to in the Holy Koran and other earlier books of revelation. Three years have passed since the unfortunate invasion of Kuwait by Iraq and the second Gulf crisis that ensued. My country continues to suffer the terrible consequences of that crisis. One million of our expatriate countrymen had to return to Yemen as a result of that war, and yet we have not received any external assistance from any quarter whatever to lighten the burden of that return. The Republic of Yemen is and has always been against the use of armed force in resolving conflicts. We reject the idea of the acquisition of the territories of others by force. That is why our position on this situation remains unchanged. We consider that Kuwait is a sovereign, independent State and not part of any other State. Since the Republic of Yemen is an Arab country that, geographically, is part of the Arabian Peninsula, we have been deeply chagrined by what happened between the two neighbouring, sister countries of Iraq and Kuwait, and by the resultant deep cracks in the edifice of Arab solidarity. For that reason, the Republic of Yemen has 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session continued to urge the Iraqi leaders to carry out all that is called for in international resolutions. In that context the responsiveness and readiness to cooperate demonstrated until now by the Government of Iraq are cause for optimism and should lead us to review the sanctions that are now in place. Similarly, ensuring the territorial integrity and safeguarding the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Kuwait are an absolute necessity. None the less, this can never be achieved in a lasting and definitive manner unless the two countries reach a mutually acceptable formula of agreement and the Arab countries, in particular, as well as the international community as a whole, guarantee strict adherence to such agreement so that neither of the two countries may breach it. Such agreement should make it possible to reassure the State of Kuwait that the events of 2 August 1990 will not recur and also make it possible to resolve all outstanding issues so as to prevent any future dispute. There is no doubt that our Kuwaiti brethren are well aware of the fact that the sovereignty, independence and security of Kuwait cannot be guaranteed indefinitely by dependence on international protection alone but must have its solid basis in sound and equitable relations between their country and Iraq in the framework of a climate of security and fraternal reconciliation in the region. Given Iraq’s readiness to cooperate in the implementation of Security Council resolutions, we believe that the blockade against Iraq is no longer justified. Indeed, the suffering of the Iraqi people has reached an intolerable level, and we do not believe that the international community is prepared to accept the death of innocent women, children and old people because of lack of medication. At the same time, my country reaffirms the need to preserve the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq, and we ask that there be no further destruction of Iraq’s economic, scientific and social infrastructures. Following the establishment of the Republic of Yemen, my country declared that one of the goals of Yemeni unity is to contribute to the security and stability of our region and to promote cooperation and integration between all its countries. In pursuance of that objective, relations between Oman and Yemen have been strengthened and have become a model to be followed. However, this sound beginning is but a key, albeit an important key, to the doors which, when fully opened, will allow movement on the economic, security and trade tracks towards economic integration and security cooperation between all the region’s countries especially now that between Yemen and Oman there are the initial steps towards easy access for passengers and goods. There is no doubt that Yemeni-Omani relations are of special significance to the future stability and prosperity of the region. They represent a practical and important beginning to the much needed process of putting the Arab house in order both at the regional and the Arab levels. They are also relations that pose no threat to the interests of others as they are open, transparent and well-defined as regards their ends and means. Similarly, Yemen’s relations with other sister countries are based on historic kinship and religious links and on the fact that we all belong to one and the same Nation. That is the reason why Yemen has always stood by its brethren in neighbouring countries and in the Arab world in general and has always endeavoured to raise such relations to the level that would enable it to perform its role vis-à-vis Arab and international issues. As regards the border issues between Yemen and Saudi Arabia, Yemen has been engaged since November 1972 in talks with our brethren in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in a climate of goodwill and with a genuine desire to turn a new leaf. Following initial contacts last year in Geneva, a joint committee of experts was set up to negotiate the border problem that lies at the forefront of the two countries’ bilateral concerns. That committee has held five rounds of negotiations, the most recent of which was held at T’az two months ago. In the meantime, other contacts have been taking place between President Ali Abdullah Saleh and King Fahd, Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, through an exchange of letters, the last of which was the letter I delivered to His Majesty King Fahd. Notwithstanding the complexities of the border problem between the two sister countries, we continue to be optimistic as to the outcome of negotiations, since both countries are desirous of seeing the talks crowned with success and since good intentions exist on both sides. This makes it easier and possible to resolve problems. Everyone is well aware that factors tending to rapprochement between the two countries outweigh the factors of discord. I can say that my last contact with King Fahd, Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, was positive and that I found him to be aware of the need for fraternity and cooperation between our two countries. The deplorable situation in Somalia demands that, in addition to what the international forces are doing to establish peace and security there and in addition to international support, further efforts should be deployed to initiate national reconciliation between the various factions. We urge the international community to redouble its efforts at the humanitarian level and we invite the factions in Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 13 Somalia to rise to the level of their responsibilities and to work on a basis conducive to reconciliation, to reject factionalism and false sensitivities and to see that the country’s interests triumph over narrow, factional ones so that it may be possible to rebuild what has been destroyed by that cruel war and pursue the path of development and progress. Although Yemen previously had the honour of taking part in the efforts deployed to achieve national reconciliation through the Conference held in Djibouti two years ago, and although the national groups in Somalia have not committed themselves to implementing the resolutions of that Conference, we shall spare no effort in working for the desired comprehensive national reconciliation in Somalia. It is only fair to commend here the role performed by our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and the interest he takes in the Somalia tragedy. Let us pray that God the all-powerful will guide the leaders of the various factions in Somalia towards reconciliation so that peace may prevail over all parts of that sister country and enable it to work towards reconstruction and development and to resume its place as an active member of the international community. Any observer who is familiar with the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict in the Middle East region will be certainly aware of the fact that the identity and destiny of Palestine have been at the core of the Arab-Israeli problem from the very outset, and the fuse that detonated the terrible explosion of conflict from as far back as the British mandate. Since then, the Palestinian cause has continued to be the focal point of the conflict, which has lasted for decades and has led to three bloody wars; taken thousands of lives and caused millions to leave their homes; broken apart thousands of families; destroyed property; and caused incalculable losses. Therefore, it is no wonder that the just settlement of the question of Palestine is the key to resolving the conflict and restoring peace. Our country’s prompt support for the agreement between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel in Washington on 13 September stemmed from our commitment to the Rabat Arab Summit Conference resolution which recognized the Palestine Liberation Organization as the sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people as well as our respect for the right of every people to choose its own course and exercise its own will in full freedom. Having said all this, we view the agreement as an important first step towards a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in the region, as was stated by the Council of Ministers of the Arab Nations in Cairo last month. None the less, this step by itself and in itself will not bring about peace unless it is followed by more significant steps at the levels of other Arab-Israeli negotiating tracks. This will depend on Israel’s earnestness with regard to withdrawal from all the Palestinian and Arab territories it has continued to occupy since June 1967. If we tell ourselves that Israel, at long last, has come to the realization that it is unrealistic to hold on to the policy of depending on naked force due to the military superiority it enjoys, as a means of guaranteeing its continued existence, imposing its hegemony over the Arab people in Palestine and the neighbouring Arab States and imposing a peace that would be tantamount to capitulation - I say that if we tell ourselves anything of the sort, we shall be indulging in wishful thinking until such time as Israel demonstrates the truthfulness of its declared intentions and passes the test by adopting sound positions in current and future negotiations with the Syrians, Jordanians and Lebanese and by withdrawing from all the territories it now occupies. It must also accept the establishment of the independent State of Palestine, which would include Gaza and the West Bank, with Jerusalem as its capital, while the Republic of Yemen appreciates the important role played by the two co-sponsors of the Arab-Israeli negotiations and, in particular, the role of the United States of America, it hopes that this role will be such as to prompt Israel to abandon the policy of force and arrogance which it has pursued out of its feelings of military superiority, and because of the international support and protection it has always enjoyed as well as the special treatment extended to it by the Western Powers. It is time the States of the world at large, and in particular the United States, shouldered the responsibility of curbing Israeli arrogance, especially after the crimes, killings, acts of intimidation and terrorization, the bombings, destruction and atrocities it has perpetrated for decades in Palestine and other Arab countries. Those are acts that will shame mankind for a long time to come and that will torture the human conscience. We do hope that the Gaza-Jericho agreement between the PLO and Israel and the agenda between Jordan and Israel will be accompanied by Israeli-Syrian agreements and Israeli-Lebanese agreements in the near future. This should lead to the return of the Golan to Syria and to Israel’s withdrawal from southern Lebanon. We also hope that such agreements will be followed by others that would lead to Israel’s total withdrawal from all the Palestinian territories, including Al-Quds and all the other Arab territories that are still under occupation. It is also our hope that the Israeli authorities will finally desist from the arbitrary measures and acts of criminality against all our brethren in Palestine, in 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Lebanon and in the other occupied territories. If the battle for peace has been joined, it shall not be won unless Israel shows a great deal of courage, abandons its arrogance and realizes that this is the most difficult battle of all. The end of the cold war and the emergence of the beginnings of a new international order that is beginning to take shape to rid the world of wars and conflicts require that lasting, total peace should prevail in the Middle Eastern region on a fair and stable basis so that its peoples may tackle the task of development and improve their standards of living. This requires that all the States and peoples of the world should take a firm stand in opposing any attempt to create obstacles in the path of peace, or to impose peace by force. Our world will not enjoy peace until peace embraces every part of the globe. Like many other countries, Yemen has followed with deep concern the attacks against southern Lebanon and the Bekaa Valley by Israel in the month of July, in full sight of the international community. Yemen, while stressing the importance of respecting Lebanon’s independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty and safeguarding its right to live within recognized international borders, condemns Israel’s continued occupation of southern Lebanon, and demands unconditional Israeli withdrawal from southern Lebanon in implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978). The international community should take a firm stand in order to compel Israel to refrain from these acts of aggression and to compensate the people of Lebanon for the enormous losses they have sustained. It is inadmissible, illegal and immoral for peoples, on the eve of the twenty-first century, to suffer from injustice and to be exposed to physical liquidation for ethnic or religious reasons. The most horrendous example of this is the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The United Nations, since it was created, has never faced a more serious challenge than the one that confronts it now in that peaceful European Muslim country. It is very difficult indeed to understand the stance of the international community with regard to that situation. In practice, all the slogans have turned out to be no more than hot air. Developments in Bosnia and Herzegovina squarely put a heavy burden of guilt on the shoulders of the international community and especially the major Powers, with regard to the collective massacring of Muslims at the hands of the Serb and Croat fascists. As long as we, as an international community, continue to fail to face up to such a situation, and to safeguard the right to life of the unarmed people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, how could we pretend to champion human rights on this planet? In the most restrained terms, we can only say that the world’s stance vis-à-vis what is happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be a stigma, a brand of Cain on the brow of the age and of the human race, for all eternity. Consequently, this blatant defiance calls for practical measures by the international community to deter aggression, to intensify moral support and humanitarian assistance and to strengthen the steadfastness of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a view to ending this tragedy. We in Yemen join the other countries of the world in calling for an end to this aggression that Belgrade supports, and for a halt to the genocidal atrocities perpetrated by the Serb aggressors in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We support the request by the Non-Aligned Movement for the venue of the negotiations to be moved from Geneva to United Nations Headquarters here in New York as those negotiations are now at a critical juncture, and moving them to New York would strengthen the parties’ confidence, especially that of the Bosnia and Herzegovina side, which is the party that has to make the biggest sacrifice. The World Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna in June 1993 has studied the question of human rights, reviewed the fundamental precepts relating to those rights and underscored the need to implement them and to provide humanitarian assistance to the victims of war and natural disasters. Unfortunately, many of the tragic situations which afflict people arise from certain crises and political conflicts that degenerate into armed confrontations. The use of force and economic blockades that ensue result in untold suffering for innocent civilians, especially the most vulnerable, namely, women, children and the elderly, who are always the principal victims of such wars and blockades. The situation in South Africa continues to be cause for concern for most Member States of this Organization. The latest news does not justify too much optimism. Over the past two months, there have been several massacres and killings. That is why the most recent events should prompt us - and the United Nations - to monitor this situation closely so that the goals contained in the 14 December 1989 United Nations Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa may be implemented. The decision to deploy a peace-keeping force in South Africa, a decision that has been welcomed by Inkatha, is a major step in leaving behind the cycle of violence, murder and massacre in the country, and may well make it possible to establish a democratic and non-racial regime. Here we should like to emphasize the importance of having all the Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 15 parties understand the need for peace, especially in view of the forthcoming democratic, non-racial elections scheduled for next year. We hope that the elections will be successful, and that they will mark a positive turning-point. Just a few days ago, we had the honour of hearing Mr. Nelson Mandela address the Special Committee against Apartheid, and we could feel his confidence in the future. We hope that the dialogue that has now begun in South Africa will make it possible to establish a democratic, non- racial regime. The Secretary-General, in his annual report on the activities of the United Nations, declared that political progress and economic development are inseparable. Yemen believes that, to revitalize economic growth in the developing countries and enable those countries to continue their political and economic adjustment programmes, the donor countries and the industrialized countries must provide economic and technical support, and the United Nations must continue to play its role in promoting cooperation between the developing and the industrialized countries in order to achieve the objective of economic integration on an equitable basis. It is also important to lighten the poor countries’ debt burdens, to increase financial flows towards them and to provide them with technical assistance in order to enable them to continue their programmes of adjustment and to achieve economic and social development. As underscored by the meeting of the Ministerial committee for the economic development of the countries of the Non-Aligned Movement held last May in Bali, Indonesia, the economic situation in the developing countries has worsened. World economic growth is suffering from a grave imbalance and the gap between the developing and the developed countries has widened. The economic recession has led to the growth of protectionism and declining development assistance. Furthermore, the increase in indebtedness and the burdens of debt servicing have resulted in capital outflows in the case of the developing countries. This is a situation that threatens the very existence of those countries and not only the prospects of economic and social development. We must refer in this respect to failure by the industrialized countries to honour their commitments in line with the agreements, strategies and international resolutions relating to the inflows of development assistance to the developing countries, especially those included in the international strategy for the eighties which called for the allocation by the industrialized countries of 0.7 per cent of their Gross National Product to development assistance. Instead of implementing those resolutions, the industrialized countries have resisted every attempt to formulate and adopt a new strategy for the 1990s. They have also failed to implement the programme for the 1990s that had been agreed upon at the Paris Conference. This has been a real setback for the economic and social development of the least developed countries. We do say that the principal responsibility for development lies with the developing countries themselves, but national efforts alone are not enough: there must also be a degree of international support and assistance. National efforts must be backed up by appropriate international efforts. We feel that the international economic system must be fair and equitable towards the developing countries. This cannot be the so without political will, wisdom and courage. A great deal of work awaits the United Nations, and this is why this session of the General Assembly is of special importance. The international community must avail itself of this opportunity to develop a concept of cooperation between countries, within the framework of the United Nations, with a view to strengthening international peace and security and economic stability the world over. This should also help to strengthen the Organization, because the Organization is the ideal framework for building that world of peace and stability on the basis of international legality. In this connection, the United Nations must implement the Charter without selectivity or double standards, for the Charter is the ideal framework for coordinating international efforts. As the international community must build a better world within the framework of the United Nations to ensure peace and development, we, the family of nations, must have the foresight and resolve to face up to the problems that arise with the universal character of the United Nations in mind. I should like to extend greetings to the President of the General Assembly, Ambassador Samuel Insanely of Guyana, to the former President, Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, and to Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali. I congratulate them on their active commitment to the principles of peace, justice, human development and international law. I should also like to greet the Heads of State and representatives of Member States who are gathered here in this historic Hall. Despite having the seventh highest rate of hyperinflation in the history of mankind, Bolivia has been a pioneer in the structural reforms that began in 1985 with the advent of democracy and freedom - reforms that were carried out without limiting human rights but by making major sacrifices. I should like to take this opportunity to pay a tribute to the President of our country during that period, Dr. Victor Paz Estenssoro and, on behalf of all Bolivians, to pay a special tribute to his statesmanlike leadership. In retrospect, this may not seem so great a task: Reining in the economic crisis and bringing about peaceful change in conditions of freedom and liberty are activities that are being accomplished in many countries in Latin America and elsewhere in the world. The situation in Russia, for example, reminds us of the difficulty of achieving consensus and legitimacy in governing a society in crisis, a society in which change is necessary. Bolivia’s course has required daring and imagination. We have not shrunk from calling upon our people to make sacrifices and shoulder additional burdens. But we are profoundly alarmed, however, when we see so many countries embarking on the road to democracy and change and attempting to achieve stable growth and development with social justice and when we then note that no corresponding efforts are being made in the developed world. The end of the cold war lit a beacon of hope, but we are surprised that it has not engendered an increase in international cooperation and solidarity. There was greater cooperation during the era of confrontation because of the desire to defend third-world countries against the communist threat and to replace the cold war with relations built on solidarity and development. Today, on the contrary, poor countries are faced with cuts in assistance, the prices of our raw materials continue to plummet, and protectionism is on the rise. Indeed, in real terms the current prices of tin, tungsten, antimony, coffee, rubber and petroleum are even lower than they were in 1930, during the great depression. It is difficult to see on this bleak horizon how we are going to solve our problems: the migration from rural to urban areas, and from cities to the developed world; the increase in drug trafficking and the phenomenon of poor people being virtually forced to destroy nature in order to survive. That creates a vicious circle, with ever-deepening poverty. The paradox of our times is that, in a world that is growing ever richer in overall terms, poverty is on the increase. There is a wider disparity between the 'haves' and the 'have nots'. The precarious stability born of internal social and economic deficiencies must be tackled by all of us. There is also an urgent need for basic changes in how we face the problem of solidarity and the development of the community of nations and human societies. Developed countries must realize that sooner or later the present situation rewards no one and injures everyone. I truly believe that we must have a clear awareness of the fact that population growth, the doubling of the population, the destruction of the environment, the production of illegal drugs and the trafficking in them, the migration from poor countries to rich countries are problems that will affect not only those countries but the world at large. The solution is greater development. We know that when people’s incomes rise, when women are educated and when there is social justice, population growth rates also change. We know that in order to restore balance between the environment and society we need educated people who can put to use their special heritage and knowledge of living in harmony with nature - as is the case in our country. Just as we had to learn that nature can punish us when we harm it, the time has come for all of us, developed and undeveloped, to become aware that it is unacceptable that the rich of the world should become ever more wealthy while the poor are becoming poorer. As we know, the solution is not just to hand out money or aid. But there is no other way to achieve our goal if we do not change old ideas. The motto should be 'Trade, not aid'. Yet it would seem that the fate of the underdeveloped world is 'no trade and no aid', which is absolutely unacceptable to us all if we wish to create a new, more just and peaceful society. With the passing of time solutions will be even more costly and more difficult in human terms and in social and economic terms. What we need, I believe, is greater foresight on the part of those who are guiding the world’s destiny. They must find solutions that are truly effective. I am not saying that we should repeat the past. But in the past there were plans such as the Marshall Plan that helped donors and recipients alike. We need similar approaches. We look forward with great expectation to the free trade agreement among Canada, the United States and Mexico. We congratulate President Clinton on his commitment to struggling against the forces of protectionism in his country and elsewhere in North America to trying to forge ahead. As a small developing country, Bolivia views all this with hope, and as a commitment that we will be able to sell our products to the developing countries rather than only sending them people. We look forward to a speedy and successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round, as we believe that the freedom of Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 3 opportunity to produce is the only hope for our societies. The children of the world ask only that their parents be able to work and bring home their daily bread. But that happens only when a country - a society, a world - stands together and gives everyone equal access and opportunity. We are not asking for special treatment; we are not asking just for help. We are asking to be allowed to work and to export, and not to be obliged just to export the most talented and vigorous people of our societies to the developed world. In Bolivia we are trying to forge ahead with projects using foreign capital and the participation of our people. We are a very poor people. Our country knows that it needs technology and capital, and during the coming years we hope to embark on an ambitious but feasible plan. This plan has three pillars: capitalization, democratization and popular participation. First, we wish to invite foreign capital to come to develop technology and use fresh resources in order to enrich the heritage of our State enterprises. We do not want to sell our heritage, and we do not want only the participation of States. Secondly, 50 per cent of those enterprises and 50 per cent of the stock must be owned by all Bolivians so that these Bolivians can participate in the enterprises and feel included in the process of economic development. Thirdly, many people ask 'How can we give free goods to uneducated people who do not know how to read or write, who have different ethnic and cultural backgrounds?' The truth is that in Bolivia many people do not know how to read but do know how to count. They know what it means to participate. They know what it means to feel they are taking part in the fortunes of the country. With their participation we wish to bring to poor neighbourhoods and communities the health and education the people there need so that they can share in management. The coming millennium will no longer find that representative democracy is enough. It must be participatory democracy. People want to participate and they will do so very well when it comes to matters that directly affect their lives and futures. We believe that with participation of this kind our societies’ meagre resources will yield greater productivity. Demand will grow, which will make it possible for our societies to forge ahead. But in Bolivia participation is not a mere word. For the first time in 500 years, a man has emerged from an indigenous ethnic group to become Acting President of our country. To the Bolivian people Victor Hugo Cárdenas is not only an Aimara Indian, a person from the countryside, but a great professional and outstanding intellectual. He typifies our desire that all of our citizens take part in our society. We want to do away with age-old injustices. We want to bring about change - to bring people in, not keep them out. We want to create unity while respecting the diversity of opinion not only on ecology and the environment but also on cultural, geographical and racial problems. We believe that this determination to include - not exclude -people is helping build a society in which there is change with order, and order with change. And although we are among the poorest countries in Latin America - indeed, in the world - we believe that we stand as an example of the fact that it is possible to live with social peace and to regain stability, growth and social justice within the general framework of a democratic society. In Bolivia, democracy works because people seek consensus; they seek respect; and they are accepting of diversity. This process should allow us to arrive at a situation conducive to dealing with employment, education and health care, and, most importantly, the rural sector, where the greatest degree of poverty prevails and where the people are among the poorest in the world. Dynamic growth would, of course, reduce the need to cultivate coca leaves. We in Bolivia have succeeded in reducing by 50 percent the amount of land used for the cultivation of these leaves. We accomplished this without the guerrilla violence that accompanies narcotrafficking, and without the cartels that are in place in the country. While we are undoubtedly making progress in this area, we are well aware of the fact that the only alternative development activity to this is light industry for export purposes. There is no use telling the Bolivian peasant, as I said earlier, to stop producing drugs and instead plant coffee when the price of coffee has dropped to half its former price, or to produce cacao when no one wants cacao - or rubber. Experience of alternative crops emphasizes the vital importance of enabling countries such as Bolivia - especially Bolivia - to export their products to the developed countries in the form of manufactured goods, rather than having them export the scourge of harmful drugs to the rest of humankind. We will 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session continue, nevertheless, to fight against drug trafficking because we have made a commitment not only to our people but also to humankind. Though we are poor, we are very happy to see that new efforts are being made to reduce demand. What we want to do is reduce supply. We wish to eliminate this business, with all its attendant dangers - social, moral, legal and institutional. Indeed, we have chosen the zero-option. We expect to be successful, with or without help. But we are more likely to be successful if we enjoy the support, cooperation and understanding of the rest of the world, which is, after all, affected by this terrible scourge. Ours is an ambitious project, to be sure, but it is feasible. We recognize that the principal responsibility for this plan rests with Bolivians. We are not just waiting for someone to help us. No, we know what all the peoples of the world know, that hunger cannot wait, that solutions have to be found by oneself. But, in all sincerity, I think it will be very difficult to overcome these problems without international cooperation. There must be some signal from the outside that assistance will not come to an end as barriers to trade mount. Bolivia has made a great commitment to the environment. We have done so because our poverty stems partly from our neglect of this problem. We have allowed poverty increasingly to justify destruction of our natural resources in our daily activities. We do have a great plan - a plan of international significance, not just to resolve our balance-of-payments problems, not just to create an industrial centre that could be the basis of the energy that we need, but to see to it that environmental pollution is reduced. That plan calls for construction, with Brazil, of a pipeline that would bring Bolivian gas to the San Pablo market. With cheap, non-polluting energy, used in industry and in cars, we can contribute to fundamentally reducing pollution in Latin America at its source, for the benefit and development of Bolivia, Brazil and the entire world. Human rights must be the emblem of the new world community, and we must see to it that the right to development within social justice is achievable. It is not just a gift that we are asking for. We are asking for an opportunity. The United Nations is changing. It has to change; the world has changed. After the great confrontation of the cold-war period, we must deal with all the harm this war caused, especially in the Third World. We have to reorient global solidarity, not just in terms of assistance, but we must accept a concept that is truly very simple and logical. Some countries become rich when they do business, when they engage in trade with other rich countries. To believe that a man is rich because everybody else is poor is a holdover from the past. The great lesson of our time is that the only way to generate wealth is to help people break the shackles of poverty. We welcome the agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. It marks the beginning of a new era of peace and of a new spirit of global justice and dialogue between nations facing historic circumstances. The mutual recognition of the inadmissibility of acquiring territory through war is a great stride forward, as is the great and historic lesson that, even in regions where territorial disputes so stubbornly persist, civilized dialogue, common sense and humanity can yield results and can bring people together rather than keeping them apart. Recently, in the heart of Latin America, we reunited two countries - Paraguay and Bolivia - that 61 years ago were split apart by war and have now decided to forge a common destiny. This has had a great impact on us, because, since the handshake - since the agreement between the two countries - in our country the veterans of the Chaco war have marched carrying the flag of Paraguay. If those who fought, whose comrades died, are prepared to forget, how could we not do likewise? These enlightening examples of how the most bitter conflicts can be resolved evoke in us a sincere desire that the same spirit should guide the search for a final solution to Bolivia’s land-locked status, which has lasted 114 long years. Many people say: 'How can you be claiming something that you lost 114 years ago?' I reply that we have a great deal of patience; our people waited 500 years for their lands to be given back to them, for them to win back their country and their right to participate in society. I believe that injustice is not prescribed for us; we shall continue to make our claim, through the use of reason and never by force. We shall continue to claim our right of access to the sea until it is granted, until the sea runs dry. When it does, there will be no further problem and we shall make no further claims, but I believe that it really would be an affront to go on blocking this historic coming together - which two fraternal peoples are demanding - if at the Government level, at the level of leadership, we continue to discuss something to which both countries already want to find a solution. Solutions are possible; miracles do happen, but we have seen that miracles are the result of work and imagination, and in this we are committed, without aggressiveness, coolly and calmly, to doing whatever we can, as creatively as we can manage, to find solutions that will meet the challenge and the expectations of this new Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 5 world in which we are living, and to bring about the change that we require. In these times of change, we must rely on our own creativity. We know the importance of one’s own efforts. But at the same time we want others in this world to stand by us in solidarity, and at least give us the opportunity to show what we can do. And we must move ahead in security along the new paths required by history, and we ask, and shall try to ensure, always and with renewed vigour, that the path chosen is the path of solidarity, well-being, and fraternal relations between peoples and countries. May I at the outset extend to you, Sir, my own and my country’s warmest congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. Your assumption of the presidency is a singular honour for the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). It marks the first occasion on which a person from that region has been elected to preside over the General Assembly. Your presence here in the Chair therefore provides added significance to the honour and privilege attached to the opportunity presented to my country, also a CARICOM State, to address this body. Knowing you as I do, Sir, I am certain that your experience, wisdom and diplomatic skills will guide our deliberations to successful and historic conclusions. Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 17 The end of the cold war and the movement towards democratization within the former Soviet Union and in Eastern Europe, accompanied by the new level of entente between the major Powers in the Security Council, have led to a new paramountcy of this Organization in the conduct of relations between nations. Many of the essential principles of the Charter, too long suppressed in the presence of super- Power rivalries, are now given the opportunity, within this more conducive environment, to assume the importance for which they were designed when first established as a product of the wisdom of the founding fathers of this Organization. The tendency towards globalization in economic, if not in political, terms suggests an era within which consensus and mutuality of approach will be essential for furthering balanced and sustained global advancement. The ideal of universality within the framework of this Organization becomes even more important in this context. Now that the grim obstacles which oppose the concepts of equality and universality are being dismantled in South Africa, we are hopeful that that country will soon be able to take its place around this hearth of the family of nations. It was also in furtherance of the spirit of universality and its all-embracing purpose that Saint Lucia joined 11 other Member States of the United Nations in proposing the inclusion of a supplementary item in the agenda aimed at obtaining General Assembly agreement for the establishment of an ad hoc committee to study the situation of the Republic of China in Taiwan. That study would have focused on the search for an equitable, rational and practical solution that would enable the Republic of China in Taiwan to become a full Member of the United Nations. Unfortunately, this new but overdue initiative suffered a temporary setback in the General Committee. However, I find it difficult to envisage that a country of 21 million people, whose industriousness has contributed to making their country the fourteenth-largest trading nation in the world, can continue to be impeded from becoming a Member of this Organization, where they will be afforded the opportunity to discharge their international obligations more fully. In keeping with its belief in the concept of universality, Saint Lucia gives support to the Government and people of the Republic of China in Taiwan in their aspiration to become full Members of this world Organization. For many years now, the problems associated with the Middle East have been considered intractable. That unforgettable handshake, beamed to us in Saint Lucia live by the wonders of satellite technology, was for us as much a symbol of relief as it was a signal of hope - relief that it perhaps marked the beginning of the end of the bloodshed, suffering and hostility which have so plagued that region, and hope that their end would bring us one step farther along the path towards global cooperation through which the future of humanity may eventually be rescued from a world which has hitherto been seemingly drifting towards self- destruction. My country wishes to convey its congratulations to Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Chairman Yasser Arafat on this bold and courageous step in the cause of peace against odds which, until then, seemed insurmountable. It is Saint Lucia’s wish that this event will ignite the spark which kindles a beacon of peace to light the region along its way to realization of its fullest potential. The heroic efforts of President F.W. de Klerk and African National Congress President Nelson Mandela in South Africa must also be praised. They have remained unintimidated by violence and endemic opposition in single- mindedly spearheading the creation of the Transitional Executive Council, which at long last gives an official say to a majority too long disenfranchised by official oppressive dictate. This progress allows Saint Lucia fully to support the lifting of the remaining sanctions, as called for by Mr. Mandela. With the recent agreement on Walvis Bay and the expectation that free and fair elections will be held in April next year, perhaps we can soon bring to a close this sad chapter of our history. However, Saint Lucia is less sanguine over the situation in some other countries of Africa. The world recession has had an adverse effect on export revenues and therefore on their foreign-exchange earnings and debt-settlement ability. In addition, political strife has tended to exacerbate these difficulties. The success of globalization in its promotion of world economic growth depends on development which is shared. It is important that, in the understandable enthusiasm to do everything possible to assist with the transformation of previously centrally managed economies, Africa not be allowed to become a casualty of the ended cold war. Saint Lucia welcomes the finalization of the demarcation of the boundary between Kuwait and Iraq, which was accomplished by the Iraq-Kuwait Boundary Demarcation Commission on 20 May this year. We also welcome the adoption by the Security Council of resolution 833 (1993), by which it guaranteed the inviolability of the boundary between the two States. This guarantee will serve as a deterrent against future conflict between Kuwait and Iraq. It will also enhance stability and security in the region. We call upon Iraq to respect the terms of Security Council resolution 833 (1993) and other relevant Security Council resolutions. 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The firm resolve which this Organization, particularly the Security Council, has shown in dealing with the problems of the long-suffering people of Haiti is to be commended. Since the adoption of General Assembly resolution 45/2 of 10 October 1990, the United Nations has continued to reflect the international community’s concern and will in its several action-oriented decisions culminating in the adoption of Security Council resolution 867 (1993) on 23 September of this year to deploy both military and paramilitary forces in Haiti. With a return to democracy and the application of the economic recovery programme envisaged by the World Bank and the United Nations Development Programme, it is hoped that Haiti will at last begin to experience the economic development which has for so long eluded it and which is an absolute imperative for alleviating the long suffering of its people. Saint Lucia is happy to have been able to contribute actively to the process of democratization in Haiti. A team of more than 30 Saint Lucians helped with the organization of the electoral process and assisted in monitoring the elections. Some 15 Saint Lucians are today serving as monitors of human-rights abuses in that country. Saint Lucia is therefore deeply anxious that the restructuring and recovery process in Haiti should succeed, and we urge the international community to maintain solidarity with President Jean-Bertrand Aristide as he returns home to resume the mantle of leadership of his country. Saint Lucia is a small Caribbean developing island State. If developing countries in general are in jeopardy, then small Caribbean developing island countries are exposed to double jeopardy. We are all trapped in an international economic system which yields no quarter to the problems and needs that are peculiar to us, and additionally insists upon using a continental measuring rod as a gauge of our development processes. Like castaways set adrift on the world’s oceans, we have for some time been desperately trying to catch the ears of those who happily stand on solid ground. But our voices have somehow failed to carry in the face of the biting winds of global change which have, almost overnight, altered the very environment within which we have been conditioned by history to survive. It is true that the small Caribbean island developing countries have in some cases registered important development gains over the past 10 to 15 years, a period which marks the attainment of sovereignty for these small developing countries. But the gains, where they do exist, have been achieved only by Herculean effort and should not be interpreted as evidence that particular or even special consideration in the granting of economic and technical assistance is not now still needed to promote sustained development. These gains are to be seen, rather, in the context of the maxim: 'One should help those who try to help themselves'. The graduation of the small Caribbean island developing countries from the World Bank’s 'soft window' into net contributor status within the United Nations Development Programme - a graduation determined solely on the basis of an index of per capita income - is in our case tantamount to helping a drowning man onto a raft and then setting him adrift without a paddle. Apart from having average per capita incomes that are only two-thirds that of developing countries in general, the small Caribbean island developing countries are burdened, as a factor of scale of operations, by administrative costs which are proportionately three times as high as that of continental developing countries. With our natural resources limited in quantity as well as diversity, the odds between success and failure become marginal and purely a matter of the quality of administration. Where no resource surpluses exist, little room is left for mistakes. Yet, because of our small national budgets and disproportionately high administrative costs, we often find ourselves unable to afford the diversity and quality of expertise required to broaden the odds. In the case of my country, Saint Lucia, this already precarious economic situation is now compounded by a direct attack on the sole item of domestic exports which virtually keeps us from sinking into the depths of economic despair. As a primary agricultural state, Saint Lucia is the largest producer of bananas in the eastern Caribbean. As used here, however, 'largest' is an extremely relative term. World annual banana production is currently about 10 million tons, of which the small States of the Windward Islands, comprising Dominica, Grenada, Saint Vincent and Saint Lucia, produce less than 300,000, Saint Lucia producing about half of that quantity. Over 50 per cent of the working populations of these islands work in banana- associated enterprises. Both in Dominica and Saint Lucia, more than 50 per cent of export earnings is derived from banana exports. Our agricultural production is completely in the hands of many small private farmers. There is no Government banana-production ownership and there are no latifundia. Because of topographical constraints that adversely affect production costs, our banana industry has been assisted to survive primarily through the umbrella of modest preferential arrangements made available under the various Lomé Conventions. Today, there are forces at work, urged on by multinational business interests, which would seek to wrest from us even the minuscule share - just 2 per cent of the market - which has enabled our economies barely to weather an increasingly hostile economic environment. In order to Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 19 attempt to secure that end, they have also mounted initiatives in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), in the European Court and within various international forums. Apart from the serious social consequences which cannot but follow a demise of the banana industry in these islands, it is also to be recognized that, in order to purchase goods and services from those very sources which advocate measures calculated to bring about that demise, we must first earn the foreign exchange to be able to do this. It can only be hoped that, in the end, sympathetic understanding will prevail over intransigence in the determination of this vital issue. In this post-cold-war era, ideological considerations have given way to political initiatives in the determination of the direction of official-aid flows. The weight given to foreign policy in deciding on foreign-aid flows means that assistance is not always necessarily directed towards areas of greater need, but is directed, rather, to areas with issues which are politically topical. With a modest per capita income which threatens the little remaining access it has to concessionary assistance, with official financial flows directed elsewhere, and with the main export commodity under attack, Saint Lucia is left to wonder whether there is in existence a concerted intention to marginalize small island countries or whether it is merely the accident of present world conditions that bears this responsibility. In any event, the effect remains the same. Political gain cannot be sustained in the absence of complementary economic progress. Where world economic advancement is isolated in its impact, political gain in world terms will continue to prove transitory and incapable of being sustained. It is true that the world has seen an impressive political transformation in a rather brief period of time in terms of a transition to democracy and a new degree of cooperation in the United Nations at the level of the Security Council. But if the price of these political gains is an exacerbated marginalization of the small developing countries, they will undoubtedly soon be dissipated in a sea of economic troubles and the social disruption which experience suggests must follow as a consequence. The urgency of the international debt crisis may have been defused, but developing-country debt, after reaching a brief plateau, is again on the rise, approaching $1.5 trillion. This situation is made more difficult by the drag on world economic output, which is being caused partly by the dislocation of economies of the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. An expansion of world trade, coupled with the recovery of commodity prices, lies at the foundation of a solution to this problem. That is why we in CARICOM are seeking to establish trading and other economic links with our neighbours in the Latin American region and are looking to participate in economic-cooperation initiatives within the Americas and elsewhere. Population growth in the developing countries, too, though it has maintained a relatively steady rate for over a decade, continues to increase in numerical terms, accounting for 93 per cent global population growth, which is now about 93 million annually. The balance between economic and population growth must be stabilized in the interest of human progress. We approach the twenty-first century with world changes which have been as rapid as they have been bewildering. The ensuing challenge which lies before small countries such as ours, daunting as it is because of our slender resources, is to develop the necessary resilience to enable us to adapt to these changes. I am of the view that incorporated within the idea of universality is the concept of common progress and the need to ensure that an environment is created within which world-embracing advancement becomes possible. In this context, the United Nations cannot be expected to micro-manage global change; as the pre-eminent global 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Organization, its resources must be enhanced to allow it to play an even greater role as a fulcrum, both in the traditional spheres of activity and in new areas created by the new order of things. The United Nations is, accordingly, seen as playing an expanded role in the economic welfare of developing countries, including the development and application of further initiatives to address constraints imposed by smallness and island status. We look forward to the Secretary-General’s agenda for development, with the expectation that it will seek to address the new problems and challenges which have arisen even as some of the old issues have been, or are in the process of being, put to bed. Let me assure the Assembly of Saint Lucia’s pledge to continue to cooperate fully within the institutions of the Organization to further its objectives for the betterment of humanity. What we lack in financial resources we can perhaps make up in human resources. The fact that Saint Lucia has produced two Nobel laureates in this generation is indicative, I believe, of our ability to cooperate in the common pursuit of the noble purposes of this esteemed Organization. At the outset, I take pleasure, Sir, in congratulating you sincerely, on behalf of the delegation of the State of Bahrain’s delegation, on your election as President of the Assembly at this session. As you assume your important task, it is my pleasure also to wish you success in carrying out your duties and to assure you of my delegation’s full cooperation with you in making the work of this session a success. I take this opportunity to convey thanks and appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, who conducted the proceedings of the last session with skill and efficiency. It is also my pleasure to mention with great appreciation the continuing efforts of the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to further the objectives of the United Nations and his tireless drive to enhance the Organization’s role in maintaining international peace and security. I should also like to take this opportunity to extend our warmest congratulations to the delegations of the Slovak Republic, the Czech Republic, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Eritrea, the Principality of Monaco and the Principality of Andorra on their accession to the membership of the United Nations. Because of the important issues on our agenda, this session of the General Assembly is a significant one indeed. These issues under consideration demand close attention, if we are to benefit from the object lessons of the past in formulating future parameters, as is required by the ever-accelerating changes in the international arena. As we look at the historical events, that have followed upon one another, we find that the world is in the midst of a qualitative transformation that is virtually unprecedented. If we examine the causes and aspects of that transformation, we shall find that the conflict that raged between the eastern and the western blocs was no mere ideological dispute articulated in academic forums. Rather, it was a violent political type of rivalry that escalated into grave military confrontations that were, at times, direct and at others, indirect, between the super-Powers. The past few years, however, have witnessed the end of that conflict, and this in turn has entailed major changes in the political outlook of various world Powers. It is regrettable indeed that, in the midst of these changes, new problems have surfaced and have thus strengthened our conviction that the ending of the cold war will not make the world a more secure and stable place. For all its conflicts and tensions the cold war, when it ended, contrary to all expectations has brought to the surface the banes of extreme nationalism and such aberrations as 'ethnic cleansing', things which had been dormant in Eastern Europe and Central Asia. This has led, in certain regions, to acts of violence that threaten to change the very nature of relations between States at a time when the path of international politics has become really bumpy as a result of the restructuring of the world order. This is a time of profound change in the lives Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993 5 of States and nations in which people’s aspirations after stability and development merge with the fears generated by the gap between a developed, affluent world and a world that is unable to meet the minimum requirements of decent living. The major transformations that are taking place today, in the areas of politics, technology and information, underscore the fact that our world has become a truly global village and that the scientific revolution is about to bring down the barriers and boundaries between its various countries and regions. It is regrettable indeed, at such a juncture, that while we stand on the threshold of a new century of man’s history, we perceive that the interests of humanity lag behind the advances made by science and technology. It is paradoxical indeed that the increased interdependence dictated by the developments that are taking place at the present time should go hand in hand with political fragmentation and clash of interests as individual States pursue their own narrow interests and ambitions. Such a situation should urge us to look at what is going on around us with a large magnifying glass so that we may be able to fathom the depths of international problems and scrutinize their interlocking strands on the wider screen of the global scene. If we take the measure of the rapid changes in the international arena, we may be able to foresee the enormity of the dangers that the future may bring and the extent of the harm to peoples’ security and stability that may result therefrom. For, in a world whose spaces and distances have shrunk and whose different parts have come closer together more than at any other time before, peace cannot be achieved in one region while the peace of another region is left at the mercy of tensions. It is therefore incumbent upon us all to develop a practical strategy for the future through a new outlook that would be capable of grasping and understanding the nature and drift of the changes and harnessing them in the service of humanity as a whole and for the strengthening of security throughout the world. After this introduction, which reflects the way we see the past and look at the present, my delegation should like to share with you certain thoughts on the building of the post-cold-war world: Firstly: there should be agreement on new concepts concerning the issues of world peace and development that would rid the world of the residues and perceptions of the ideological and strategic thinking that prevailed throughout the cold-war period; Secondly: appropriate criteria should be defined for the achievement of world stability through the common security of all States; Thirdly: existing and traditional boundaries between States should be respected, and all boundary disputes should be resolved by peaceful means that are agreed upon by the parties concerned; and Fourthly: there should be support for the United Nations, as the appropriate international tool for the establishment of a new international order where justice, equality, respect for international resolutions and the abandonment of double standards prevail. War and peace are inseparable opposites. Given this perspective, the most difficult task in international politics is to devise an effective machinery to prevent the causes of war on the one hand, and to preserve, maintain or keep the peace, on the other. It is our conviction that current international developments have created favourable conditions for making use of the United Nations potential to create a political climate that would be favourable for developing the foundations of a collective security system. Here it should be pointed out that one of the most important means suggested for promoting collective security is the use of preventive diplomacy to prevent disputes from arising between parties and to prevent existing disputes from escalating, and the development of preventive deployment of United Nations forces in such a way as to allow those forces to defuse potential tensions in any region of the world. We hope that Member States will reach a consensus on the formation of such forces, and that cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations can be enhanced so that the regional organizations’ experience and their human and material resources in the field of peace-keeping can be tapped. In this context, I applaud the current cooperation between the United Nations and the League of Arab States and emphasize the importance of enhancing and strengthening the existing relations between the two organizations in all fields. The United Nations now approaches its fiftieth anniversary. The peoples of the world, with their hopes and aspirations, continue to look to the Organization to lead the way to the turning of a new leaf in the history of international relations so that they can finally enjoy the security, peace and stability for which they have long yearned. 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The world Organization has managed, since its beginnings, to achieve some of the purposes of the Charter, but has failed to achieve others. It is now at a juncture where new hopes, accompanied by new problems, have arisen. Over the last five decades, the membership of the Organization has risen from 51 States in 1954 to 184 in 1993. This calls for restructuring the Organization’s principal organs, especially the Secretariat and the Security Council. We welcome the Secretary-General’s statement, in his Agenda for Peace, that important steps have been taken to reorganize the Secretariat in order to avoid duplication and overlapping of functions and to enhance its effectiveness. We call for further reforms to be effected, methodically, so that the Secretariat can perform its duties to the optimum. As for the Security Council and its role in the maintenance of international peace and security, the development of this important organ and the review of the provisions relating to its membership have recently been the object of world attention. Consequently, the General Assembly has included in the agenda of its forty-eighth session an item entitled 'Question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council'. The inclusion of this item has taken place in response to the desire of many States to emphasize the importance of adequate and equitable representation in the membership of this important organ in line with the increase in the membership of the Organization and the glaring disparity between the composition of the Council and the membership of the United Nations. From 20 per cent in 1945, the proportion has dropped to 8 per cent now. We support the call for a review of the composition of the Security Council that would ensure equitable geographical representation. I should like, in this connection, to refer to the resolution adopted by the Arab League Council at its regular session, held in Cairo from 19 through 21 September 1993, which calls upon the United Nations to take due consideration of the need for equitable geographical representation and to establish a permanent seat on the Security Council for the Arab Group. We should like to stress that it is vitally important to ensure that in adopting any of the proposed formulas for increasing the membership of the Security Council, care must be taken that this should not lead to impeding the proper functioning by the Council in carrying out its duties, and that the power of veto should not be used as a means of undermining the decision-making process or of diluting the urgent nature of critical issues, especially those which have to do with peace and security. In recent weeks, a ray of hope that augurs well for the future of world peace has appeared on the horizon of the Middle East and the world at large: namely, the accord signed by the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel. We have consistently encouraged any sign of movement towards a peaceful, just and comprehensive settlement of the Palestine question. There is firm hope today that this step will be a precursor to a real opening for peace and stability in the Middle East region. While we welcome this significant and historic step, we view it as a first step on the road to a just, lasting and comprehensive solution to the Palestine question and the Arab-Israeli conflict, based on Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and other resolutions of international legality as well as the land-for-peace principle. We hope that efforts will continue to be made towards the speedy implementation of the provisions of the accord and that the negotiations between other Arab parties and Israel will make progress on the other tracks so that the existing opportunities for peace may be put to good use. We look forward to the day when the Israeli forces will withdraw from the Gaza Strip, the West Bank, including Holy Jerusalem, the occupied Syrian Golan Heights and the occupied Lebanese and Jordanian territories, and to the day when the legitimate national rights of the Palestinian people, including the right of return for the Palestinian refugees, will be guaranteed, in consonance with relevant United Nations resolutions. It should be emphasized that stability in the Middle East is fully dependent on its being freed from chemical, biological and nuclear weapons. Declaring the Middle East a region free of weapons of mass destruction would enable its States to focus their attention on questions of economic, scientific and technological development and would encourage them to cooperate in the field of peaceful uses of nuclear energy and to make a constructive contribution to the maintenance of world peace. Two devastating wars have swept over the Gulf, and their consequences have adversely affected development in the area. It behooves us, therefore, to intensify efforts to keep that important area free of any further tensions, through the settlement of disputes by peaceful means and through respect for the principles of territorial integrity and political independence, the sovereignty of States over their own resources, non-interference in the internal affairs of other Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993 7 States and strict observance of the norms of international legality. We should like to emphasize the need for Iraq to implement Security Council resolutions relevant to its aggression against the State of Kuwait, and in particular the provisions of Security Council resolution 687 (1991) relating, inter alia, to the release of Kuwaiti and other prisoners of war and detainees, and to recognize the international boundaries between Kuwait and Iraq as demarcated and set out in Security Council resolution 833 (1993). We also hope that the dialogue between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran will lead to the settlement of all outstanding questions regarding the three islands of Abu Mousa, Greater Tunb and Lesser Tunb in a manner that would guarantee the rights of the United Arab Emirates as set out in the resolutions of the Gulf States Cooperation Council. The international arena has witnessed some development, this year, in relation to the situation in Somalia. Although that situation continues to irk the conscience of the international community, the United Nations has been able, through the efforts of a large number of its members, to restore peace in most parts of Somalia. Security Council resolution 814 (1993) has had a positive effect in improving the situation after the drawn out suffering experienced by the people of that country. We should like to voice support for United Nations efforts to rebuild the political, economic and social infrastructure of Somalia. We hope that the Somali people will be able to reach comprehensive national reconciliation between the various factions. The world has been following the tragic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Despite all the efforts deployed in an attempt to contain the conflict, we see no glimmer of hope that aggression against that country will cease. The Serbian side rejected the Vance-Owen peace plan, while the Government of Bosnia-Herzegovina accepted it. Massacres and acts of aggression against Bosnian cities continue unabated, and the Serb forces have committed the most atrocious crimes of genocide and 'ethnic cleansing' in open defiance of the international community. Yet the Security Council has not taken any effective measure to suppress the aggression or to enable the legitimate Bosnian Government to defend itself. That, surely, sends the wrong message to all those who do not believe in the system of international collective security and could give rise to a surge of violence and extremism that would have an adverse effect on the United Nations endeavours to contain existing and potential conflicts in the world. The international community is duty-bound to move urgently to stop the aggression against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to safeguard the legitimate rights of its people, to force the aggressors to comply with the principles of international legality, to prevent any demographic change or any territorial gains through the policy of fait accompli pursued by the Serbs and the Croats, and to enable the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina to exercise the right of self-defence by lifting the embargo on arms supplies to it. It is regrettable, at a time when the features of a new world order are beginning to take shape, that Central Asia should be in the grip of a situation of instability that threatens to tear it apart. Internal strife continues without let up in Tajikistan and Georgia and the war between Armenia and Azerbaijan has grown even more vicious. In this connection, my delegation supports Security Council resolutions 822 (1993) and 853 (1993), which reaffirm the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Azerbaijan and of all other States in the region and the inadmissibility of the use of force for the acquisition of territory. We reaffirm our endorsement of the efforts made by the United Nations and regional organizations to restore stability in that region. For years, the Cyprus problem has continued to defy solution. We are encouraged, however, by the efforts of the Secretary-General to bring the two Cypriot parties closer to agreement. Despite the remaining obstacles that obstruct the settlement of this problem, it is our view that the good offices of the Secretary-General should continue until a solution that would be satisfactory to both parties may be reached. With regard to the situation in Cambodia, positive results have been achieved, and the United Nations, through the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC), has been able to restore political stability to that country. We should like on this occasion to extend our sincere congratulations to the people and Government of Cambodia on the outcome of their efforts in pursuit of national reconciliation and peace. We also commend the constructive efforts of UNTAC in carrying out its mandate in Cambodia. South Africa is now going through a significant and crucial phase in its march towards political reform. The main features of this reform are the agreement on the drafting of a new constitution, the formation of a new 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session transitional multi-party Government, and the agreement to hold constitutional elections in April 1994. These developments demonstrate the sincere desire of all parties in South Africa to turn a new leaf in their relations. We support the reforms currently under way in South Africa and welcome Nelson Mandela’s call, in his recent address at the United Nations, for lifting the economic sanctions now in place against South Africa. Although the fires of the cold war have been put out and have become something of the past, we cannot but voice our concern over the numerous difficulties which continue to beset the world economy. The gap is still wide between the average per capita income in developing countries and that in developed countries. In 1992, that figure was over $18,000 in the developed countries, while in the developing countries it did not exceed $800. There are distressing indications that the rate of world economic growth lags behind the rate of world population growth. The continuing social deterioration and lack of economic security which result from continuous political upheavals will undoubtedly impede economic development in the long term. So long as the world economy continues to stagnate, the urgent social problems connected with the economy, in the areas of population, health, housing and environment, will continue to defy solution. Any change in the world economy, whether it be negative or positive, affects every State. The world economy stands in need of the political will that should lead all the States of the world, especially the developed countries, to cooperate in solving those problems that face us all. This makes it incumbent upon us all to strengthen the role of the United Nations, as the Organization that has continued for about half a century, to embrace the countries of the world with the distinctive and varied experiences each and every country has gained in the areas of developmental coordination and cooperation. Over the past decades, the world has been focusing on economic development owing to the immediate and speedy returns it generates for the world economy. Voices have been raised in the United Nations, in recent years, urging that attention should be paid to social development as well. This has led to the adoption by the General Assembly of resolution 47/92, in which it decided to convene a World Summit for Social Development early in 1995. We hope that those in charge of preparations for that conference will reach agreement to further those objectives of the Charter set out in Article 55, relating to the promotion of higher standards of living, conditions of economic and social progress and development as well as to the resolution of international economic and social problems. Our planet faces man-made environmental threats whose consequences are unpredictable. The Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro was an important step towards world partnership in combating those environmental threats. We should like, in this context, to reiterate our support for the efforts to contain the threats to our environment, and we hope that the programmes adopted by the Rio Summit, especially those included in Agenda 21, will be implemented. The attention focused on population problems stems from the tremendous density of population in some countries and the adverse effects that density has on development. We welcome the efforts by the United Nations and particularly by the United Nations Population Fund, to address such issues. We hope that the International Conference on Population and Development scheduled to be held in Cairo next year, pursuant to General Assembly resolution 47/176, will adopt recommendations that may ensure the resolution of urgent population and development problems in the next decade. Several years have passed since the world first witnessed that novel, unique situation in the history of international relations, namely the ending of bipolarity. The result of this is that the world now stands at the crossroads of history, where it faces difficult challenges. This is especially so because certain evil tendencies have caused the eruption of volcanoes of malevolent hatreds and racism, which have destroyed many hopes and shattered the expectations of millions of people to achieve security and prosperity for future generations. It may be appropriate to stop here and wonder whether the United Nations has done all it should to address the problems that have surfaced due to this major transformation in world order? Has the machinery which we and many others have called for been made available to the world Organization to enable it to fulfil its role in a manner that is compatible with the developments of our time? Even if the United Nations has moved as we had hoped, have the Member States made available to it the material and moral resources to enable it to take effective action to address all of the world problems, wherever they may appear? We do not believe anyone in today’s world searches for the Utopia described in Plato’s Republic or Farabi’s Ideal City. Yet everyone would like to see the United Nations made able to achieve practical solutions for world problems. Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993 9 For it is our conviction that any blood shed by a hand prompted by an ethnic bigotry or racial hatred would be a clear indication of our failure to respond to the aspirations of all our peoples. It is in this context that we call for resorting to reason in trying to understand the new phenomena and to deal with political, economic and social problems in a rational and dispassionate manner. The time has come for issues relating to international and regional security and development to be put in their proper realistic perspectives, without any idealistic flights of fancy. Such problems should be dealt with in the light of the objective realities of the world we live in with all its successive developments, so that the solutions devised for them may be applicable in the current atmosphere of inter-State rivalries. We are confident that, with political will, material support and moral encouragement, it will be possible for the United Nations to perform its role in steering the ship of hope towards the shores of security and peace we all seek. I am delighted to be addressing the General Assembly as the people of Guinea commemorate a historic date: 28 September 1958, the day on which Guinea, by a unanimous vote, chose national independence and sovereignty, thus accelerating the process of liberation of the African peoples. It will be easy, then, to understand the pride and pleasure I take on this anniversary in conveying a message of peace and friendship from the people of Guinea and from their President, General Lansana Conté. I join previous speakers in congratulating Ambassador Insanally on his dazzling election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I wish also to assure him of my delegation’s complete support as he carries out his responsible tasks. His personal qualities, his wealth of experience and the valuable assistance of his fellow-officers - whom I also congratulate - bode well for the success of our work. I wish also to convey to the President of the Assembly at its forty-seventh session, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, my great appreciation for the skill and dedication with which he guided the work of that session. Finally, my delegation highly appreciates the praiseworthy efforts made by the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has worked tirelessly to build and maintain peace in the face of all the obstacles in his way. The independence of the sister republic of Eritrea and its admission to membership of the Organization were a source of great relief for its people and of genuine satisfaction for the international community. I welcome Eritrea and wish it great success in its difficult task of national reconstruction. I welcome the admission of Eritrea, and that of the Czech Republic, Slovakia and the Principalities of Monaco and Andorra; this confirms the increasingly universal character of our Organization. The end of the cold war radically changed world geopolitics through a rapid series of often unforeseeable events. While it is possible to believe that the threat of a global conflagration has been lifted, we note with dismay the proliferation and exacerbation of armed conflicts that are causing immense loss of life, great destruction of infrastructure and property, and severe suffering among civilians suffering the agony of exile, famine and sickness. What a paradox! On the one hand, the international community is making intense efforts to prevent or contain armed conflicts, and on the other hand international action is not being provided with the resources it needs to eliminate the causes and the manifestations of those conflicts. That is a salient feature of today’s international relations. Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 33 In short, more resources are needed to restore world peace. None the less, it is reassuring that recent history has favoured the renaissance of the United Nations; thanks to changed attitudes and perceptions, the Organization has truly become the guarantor of peace at a difficult moment in international relations. The positive trends that we have seen here and there in finding solutions to political problems ought to have promoted an improvement in the economic and social situation in many countries. However, in most developing countries, that situation has instead deteriorated seriously. The increase in the number of international forums debating development programmes has unfortunately not made it possible to reverse the trend towards the imbalances that I have mentioned. Today, world savings are under severe pressure. What is happening is that the supply of capital for development is inadequate relative to the ever-increasing demand from the African countries, especially if we take into account the new needs of the Eastern countries, which are in the throes of transition. The world economic crisis is still going on; it is aggravating the disparities and the already precarious conditions for development being experience by the third world countries. For Africa, this crisis has been heightened by drought and desertification, by the stagnation - for which, read reduction - in official development assistance, by the deterioration in terms of trade and its corollary, the marked drop in export earnings, by the counter-productive effects of structural adjustment programmes and by the external debt burden. Allow me to place a particular emphasis on this last issue. Members will recall that the seriousness of the indebtedness problem led the African Heads of State or Government to propose holding a special summit on African debt. This problem is today still as widespread and as acute as it was before, despite the relief measures undertaken by some creditors. The international community must be persuaded of the fact that so long as the question of indebtedness is not studied in a global, concerted manner, the socio-economic development programmes of the third world will be put in jeopardy as a result. The lack of resources for development has as its corollary the mass exodus from the countries of the South to the countries of the North; indeed, the only viable solution to this migratory phenomenon lies in economic recovery in the countries of the South. Environmental problems - the relationship between man and his environment - have in recent years quite rightly been a major concern of the international community. Do I need to stress the fact that man, through his nature-destroying activities, has heightened the progressive degradation of our world to the point where the alarm bells we hear today are sounding? In the past, man was essentially a passive spectator of the natural wear and tear on the ecological system. Today he has become the main player in the destruction of the natural environment through the combined effects of the inappropriate design and implementation of a number of programmes, through the improper use of science and technology and as a result of runaway population growth. In contrast, real development must also embrace protection of the environment and the ecological balance. This is precisely why my delegation is emphasizing the need for follow-up to the decisions in the Rio Declaration and Agenda 21. Environmental protection is a common responsibility; all nations must contribute to it. Environmental damage, whether man-made or from natural causes, spares no region on Earth. My country, which used to enjoy good rainfall and was called the watershed of Western Africa, is concerned to see its rainfall and the rate of flow of its natural watercourses diminish. This is why my Government is interested - in more than one sense - in the negotiations that are taking place within the high-level Commission on Sustainable Development on drafting an international convention to combat desertification and drought in the countries that are being seriously affected. The persistence of a number of political crises, including those in southern Africa, Somalia, Liberia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and elsewhere, is a threat to the peace and security of mankind. Fortunately, there is positive progress in South Africa, where a clear awareness appears to have taken hold concerning the vital need to build a democratic and multi- racial society. The establishment of a Transitional Executive Council, as well as the demonstrations for peace by civilian society and a certain degree of political awareness, are cause for optimism, despite some reluctance. 34 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session This remarkable improvement in the political climate, which has been achieved, inter alia, as a result of the spirit of compromise shown by the various political players, makes it possible, in my delegation’s opinion, for the economic sanctions against South Africa to be lifted, as president Nelson Mandela of the African National Congress himself has requested. That being the case, there is reason for great satisfaction in the activities of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) which, through its observer missions and its Ad Hoc Committee on Southern Africa, has contributed greatly, in collaboration with the United Nations, to the peaceful change that has taken place in South Africa. In Angola, after lighting a glimmer of hope, the process of national reconciliation seems to be blocked by the increased fighting resulting from UNITA’s intransigence. But only observance by the parties of the Bicesse Accords and of the election results will allow the Angolan people to regain peace and security. The Security Council’s decision on 15 September 1993 recommending the application of sanctions against UNITA must be strengthened and implemented strictly, because only constant firmness with UNITA and its leader will make it possible to put an end to this painful civil war that is sowing death and destruction. With regard to the Western Sahara, the parties concerned must cooperate with the Secretary-General and with all willing parties in order to implement the peace plan, which is vital for there to be a happy ending to this crisis. For almost four years now, Liberia has been the theatre for one of the bloodiest civil wars on our continent. The refusal by some of the parties to the conflict to compromise has caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people and considerable material destruction, not to mention the massive outpouring of refugees and displaced persons, in particular into neighbouring countries, including my own, which is at present harbouring some 600,000. However, it is a source of comfort to note that the negotiations held in July 1993 in Geneva, under the joint auspices of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the United Nations, with the support of OAU, have made it possible to involve the various parties to the conflict in constructive dialogue, the only way of finding a lasting solution to this dreadful crisis. The signing by the parties concerned of the Geneva Accord under the auspices of ECOWAS on 25 July 1993 at Cotonou means, I hope, that conditions have now been created for a definitive return of peace and stability to this country and to the subregion. But let there be no mistake: to achieve lasting peace, the expansion of the ECOWAS Monitoring Group to include African troops from outside ECOWAS, strengthened by the presence of international observers, is one of the guarantees to bring about the process of assembling troops, disarming the belligerents and holding democratic elections in order to achieve a return to normal constitutional life. The Somali conflict is becoming ever more tragic. The international community must undertake joint, effective action. In order to achieve a rapid political solution, it is essential to halt the sudden escalations that are complicating the situation in Somalia. The United Nations must resume its peaceful calling in the face of the many acts of violence that are trying both the Blue Helmets and the Somali population. The Security Council must decide on a new strategy if the last obstacles in the way of pacification are to be overcome and if the mission entrusted to the United Nations Operation in Somalia is to succeed. My Government calls on all parties to the conflict in Somalia to make their contribution to the success of the political process now under way towards the restoration of peace and security in fraternal Somalia. In the Middle East, after a period of hatred, turbulence and hesitation, the parties to the conflict are moving progressively towards lasting peace. The signing on 13 September in Washington of the agreement on autonomy for Jericho and Gaza, marking the mutual recognition of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel, resulted from the courage and political realism of the two parties. Guinea, as a member of the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, welcomes this happy turn of events. For my country peaceful coexistence between the State of Israel and the Palestinian State, under the leadership of the PLO, must be a constant. After Jericho and Gaza, the liberation of all the other territories would then promote the consolidation of relations between the two communities. The march towards global peace in this very sensitive region is to be encouraged and supported by assistance from the international community, with a view to the socio- economic development of the Palestinian State. Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 35 In the Gulf, in order to prevent a new confrontation the international community must ensure that Kuwait and Iraq respect the conclusions of the Boundary Demarcation Commission, which by Security Council resolution 833 (1993) laid down definitively secure and inviolable borders between these two countries. The relaxation of tension in Cambodia resulting from the success of the elections is putting an end to the long years of martyrdom endured by the Cambodian people. There is reason to be happy over the positive results of the efforts by the international community in this area. Respect for the Paris Agreements will be the guarantee of lasting peace and will facilitate the work of national reconstruction in that country. With regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina, the scale of organized killings for irrational reasons, such as 'ethnic cleansing' and religion, and the prolongation of the conflict highlight the divisions in this nation - which until recently was strong and united - caused by the end of the cold war. After many efforts, the three communities involved in the conflict have still not achieved a stable peace. Unfortunately, the law of the jungle continues to prevail in the face of the impotence of some and the indifference of others. There will be true security and lasting peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina only after serious negotiations guaranteed by the international community in general and by the States of the subregion in particular. With regard to the Korean peninsula, the international community must support the peaceful reunification of the two States there. Africa, like other parts of the world, is at an important moment in its history, a time of the democratization of its society and its institutions. The success of this process of qualitative change requires, none the less, taking into account the historic, social and cultural realities of States in order to generate harmonious and lasting development. The Republic of Guinea has taken important steps along this road. Its achievements include ratification of the majority of the African and international Conventions on human rights and humanitarian law; the adoption of the basic law in our country which calls for a presidential regime, separation of powers, the primacy of law, political pluralism and decentralization; the establishment of a Supreme Court to ensure, among other matters, that there are no irregularities in balloting; the entry into operation of the National Communication Council, whose job it is to ensure the freedom of the press and free and equal access by all political parties to State communications media; and the determination of the Government to organize just and open elections. The presidential balloting will take place on 5 December next, to be followed by elections to the legislature. In our view, these efforts at democratization in Guinea, as in most other African countries, should have increased support from development partners to guarantee their success. The convening of a series of international conferences in 1994 and 1995, particularly those regarding population, women and social development, confirm the interest of the international community in improving the economic and social situation of the most vulnerable sectors of our populations. The same is true of their participation in development. The year 1993 has seen the international community take a more active interest in the emergence of an era of peace and universal respect for human rights. Two conferences testify to that. Last June in Vienna, and more recently in Geneva, we gathered together to think, to evaluate what has been done, to consider prospects for the future, in order to eliminate the causes of suffering, and to reaffirm our faith in the dignity of the human being. None the less, the absence of international machinery for the prevention and punishment of serious violations of human rights makes any protection measures ineffective. My Government therefore considers that the creation of a permanent international court with penal powers would be an important step in the protection and promotion of human rights. Such a jurisdiction, by making inevitable the punishment of the perpetrators of such violations, would make existing international law more effective. However, we must eliminate from international affairs any tendency to be selective with regard to human rights, in the form of discrimination over which cases should be denounced or over the sanctions that should be applied. Moreover, the existing link between human rights and other aspects of social development requires the elaboration of national programmes capable of promoting: protection of the family, which is considered to be the basic unit of 36 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session society; the integration of women into development and their participation in the management of public affairs; the protection of vulnerable categories of people - children, the aged and the handicapped - by establishing conditions favourable to the development of their personalities; and efforts to combat the production, consumption and illicit trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances through international cooperation, harmonization of national legislation and ratification of existing international Conventions. Along with these measures, effective strategies must be evolved to combat the pandemic of AIDS, which, because of its ravages, is a great scourge and a threat to mankind’s survival. The progress achieved in disarmament must be pursued in the hope that the resources thus released will contribute to the recovery of the world economy. In his report on the work of the United Nations and in various communications the Secretary-General has described the Organization’s financial situation as being a matter of great concern. The situation is paradoxical. At a time when the United Nations is entrusted with new tasks to be carried out in the service of peace and development the vital resources needed for those tasks are diminishing. We pay tribute to the Secretary-General and to encourage him in applying austerity measures and in restructuring to increase the effectiveness of the United Nations system. My delegation strongly urges Member States to honour their financial obligations by paying regularly and on time their assessed contributions in order to ensure the functioning of the United Nations and allow it to play its role effectively. I hope that the message I have just delivered is one of persistence and hope. This message, based on the realities of the changes in the post-cold-war world and the divisions those changes have caused in some parts of the world, urges the Organization to implement new and dynamic strategies with a view to establishing a new world order based on equality, justice, peace, cooperation and respect for democratic values. This persistence demands sustained efforts to democratize international relations. The mode of operation and structure of some bodies in the United Nations system must be revised; the decision-making bodies must be streamlined and have an equitable representation of States and regions. This persistence is the basis of our hope, a hope of mastering our collective future on the threshold of the twenty-first century, a hope that all people will move together towards peace, the development of nations and the promotion of human rights. Our collective survival depends on our solidarity and the effectiveness of our actions to transform that hope into a reality in international relations. It is with pleasure that, on behalf of the Ghana delegation, I convey to Mr. Insanally of Guyana our congratulations on his election, by acclamation, as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. He assumes this high office at a momentous time in the history of mankind, as we endeavour to establish a new world order based on freedom and justice. The skills and experience that he brings to his office assure us of success during his tenure. The cordial relations that happily exist between the President’s country and mine increase our satisfaction, hopes and expectations. We pledge to him and to the Bureau our full cooperation and support. Let me place on record also our appreciation of the effective leadership that the President’s predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, gave to our Organization during his stewardship. His ability to navigate the General Assembly through the turbulence of a contradictory context in international relations was admirable. Once again, the Secretary-General has shown, through a display of his remarkable skills as a thinker, an administrator and an accomplished diplomat, that he is on top of his job. The credit is no doubt shared by the staff, whose dedication and commitment have been maintained. The universality of the General Assembly, which makes it the most representative organ of the Organization, has again been reaffirmed with the admission of five new Member States since August 1992. We take this opportunity to welcome them and to extend to them the cooperation of the Ghana delegation. The search for enduring peace is still the greatest challenge of the Organization, in spite of the end of the cold war. The collapse of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the accession to independence of its constituent parts, the freedom and independence of the Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 21 countries of Eastern Europe, German reunification, and the cold-war relics of trouble spots have brought to the fore 'Simmering disputes, violent conflicts, aggression and foreign occupation, interference in the internal affairs of States, policies of hegemony and domination, ethnic strife, religious intolerance, new forms of racism and narrowly conceived nationalism', (A/47/675, annex, para. 3) as the Jakarta Message of 1992 of the Non-Aligned Movement so aptly stated. At the same time, our world is faced with an economic and a social situation similar to that which preceded the two world wars. All these developments, aggravated by global recession, threaten to undermine the purposes of the United Nations. We must continue to pursue the goal of total disarmament. We should like the proposed United Nations Register of Conventional Arms to include nations’ production of arms and all other weapons of mass destruction. The goal of complete and total disarmament would obviously be easier to pursue in an environment of peace based on mutual confidence. It is in this context that we welcome the efforts of the United Nations to shoulder the increasing burden of peace-keeping and peacemaking. In Cambodia, Mozambique, Angola, South Africa, the former Yugoslavia, Somalia, the Middle East, Cyprus, and elsewhere, the efforts of the United Nations have served as a positive check on the threat to international peace and security. There are, however, lessons to be drawn for current and future operations. The holding of elections in Angola and in Cambodia without the fulfilment of certain conditions, such as the disarming and cantonment of troops, was tactically unhelpful, in spite of the circumstances that led to the elections - a mistake which, thankfully, the United Nations does not intend to repeat in Mozambique. We should also remind ourselves that peacemaking may be a slow and painful process. The need to retain the confidence of all parties and their support for, and participation in, the process is fundamental and crucial to the success of such operations. We are disappointed at the instability that continues to engulf the former Yugoslavia. Whilst we still regret the initial reaction of the international community - in particular, the regional institutions - to developments there, we wish to reiterate that unrestrained nationalism that seeks justification in the much-cherished principle of self- determination is unacceptable. Furthermore, the expression of such nationalism in 'ethnic cleansing' is as barbaric and revolting as it is reprehensible and totally at variance with civilized behaviour. The readiness of the United Nations to act decisively in Somalia contrasts sharply with the timidity and hesitation that have marked our presence in the former Yugoslavia and threaten to erode the credibility of the Organization. It is for these reasons that we welcome Security Council resolution 859 (1993), in which the Council, acting under Chapter VII of the Charter, calls for the immediate cease-fire and cessation of hostilities throughout the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are essential if a just and equitable political solution to the conflict is to be achieved through peaceful negotiations. We expect the Security Council to monitor the implementation of the resolution. My Government warmly welcomes the historic agreements on limited autonomy for Palestine and on mutual recognition between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. These accords are a tribute to the courage, foresight, determination and outstanding statesmanship of Chairman Yasser Arafat and of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. They usher in the beginning of the end of decades of war, mistrust, violence, destruction and wanton killing and suffering that the Arab-Israeli conflict has brought to the people of the Middle East. They lay a solid foundation for a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East. We therefore urge the entire international community to support them. From the new dawn of relations in the Middle East emerges a powerful, compelling and inspiring truth - that there is no conflict that is not capable of solution. That is why we consider that the 'no war, no peace' situation in Cyprus should not be permitted to lure this Organization into complacency. The search for a settlement should be accelerated. To this end, the recent decision to maintain the United Nations presence in Cyprus should encourage all the parties involved. The situation in Sudan, equally, cries out for a peaceful solution and for greater United Nations involvement as a contribution to the search for an enduring settlement to an essentially political problem that has brought such suffering to the people and has created an unbearable refugee problem for neighbouring States. Our Organization has recorded laudable success in its implementation of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) on the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to 22 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Colonial Countries and Peoples. The independence of Namibia is the latest of the success stories of decolonization. However, the Territories and peoples that remain under colonial rule demand our active and sustained attention and render premature any conclusion that the decolonization process has been completed. We welcome the progress that has been made in the negotiations in South Africa. However, the international community needs to remind itself that apartheid is far from being completely eradicated. The process of democratization in that country must be completed so that all its citizens may be enabled to exercise their voting rights. The world community has a responsibility to maintain its vigilance regarding South Africa until the election on 27 April 1994, which will put in place an acceptable constitutional programme for a transitional Government based, for the first time in the history of that country, on universal adult suffrage. Of equal concern is the impasse over Western Sahara. The United Nations peace plan must be allowed to work, and the timetable set for the holding of elections must be respected by all. In the light of the call for a more prudent use of the resources available to the United Nations, it is imperative that the task of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) be completed rapidly, to the full satisfaction of all concerned, particularly the Sahraoui people. The new impetus for peacemaking and peace-keeping represents a major advance in our collective engagement in the task of seeking and creating a peaceful and safe world. In this Assembly it has been suggested that the United Nations should limit its commitments, that it should not take on every conflict. But which conflicts must it address, and which ones should it decline to get involved in? That is the crucial question. The unity of the purposes of the Charter and the universality of our Organization compel us to recognize that a threat to peace anywhere is a threat to peace everywhere. But even if the suggestions have merit, either on the grounds of lack of funds, constraints in logistics or the United Nations inability to heal all the world’s wounds, my delegation wants to stress the need for the United Nations to see all the peace-keeping assignments it is engaged in through to their logical conclusion. The United Nations cannot, at this juncture, turn its back on South Africa, Liberia, Rwanda, Angola, Mozambique, Haiti, Somalia or the former Yugoslavia. It would be a sad day indeed if all these laudable initiatives were abandoned on the grounds of well-reasoned arguments pleading lack of funds or of the will to help these nations enjoy the peace that has eluded them for years. In recognition of the fact that the United Nations cannot undertake too many initiatives, it should devise mechanisms for shoring up regional efforts at conflict resolution, such as in Liberia. We also wish to stress that the internal parties to the various conflicts which the United Nations is striving so hard to resolve have a moral responsibility to play their part in accelerating the process towards peace. Human decency and the sanctity of human life impose this duty on them. In this respect, we must encourage the Inkatha Freedom Party and other right-wing groups to join the process of negotiations in South Africa, and we should condemn in no uncertain terms the treachery of UNITA and the attitude of some of the Somali warlords. Whatever mistakes the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM) may have made, it is grotesque for any Somali leader to seek to be a hero by engaging the United Nations in combat. Such a show of ingratitude may have long-term damaging consequences in terms of the willingness of Member States to undertake humanitarian missions. And what would be the consequences for the Somali people should the United Nations decide to abort UNOSOM? Any leader who has the interest of his people at heart needs to reflect on that. It is noteworthy that many of the conflicts plaguing us are in the developing countries. We hope the call for limiting the peace-keeping role of the United Nations is not an attempt to shirk the burden of engaging in solving the political problems in these countries in the same way as the fundamental economic concerns of these countries have been marginalized. As we concern ourselves with the resolution of these sometimes malignant conflicts, let us not forget to address the fundamental factors that generate many of them. We know that a great proportion of these problems can be traced to economic deprivation and underdevelopment. My delegation has stressed time and again in this Assembly and elsewhere that underdevelopment and conflicts have a link. It is often the poorest countries or countries where economic decline has been steep that relapse into savage violence. We have also said that the source of the condition of underdevelopment can be largely traced to a global economic system that has been inimical to the interests of developing and poor countries. Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 23 It is time the United Nations, in its effort to construct peace and keep the peace, addressed some of the fundamental economic issues that hamper all efforts to eradicate global poverty. In this connection, the perennial problems that plague the economies of the South must now be fully tackled as part of the energetic search for world peace. We have said in almost all United Nations forums, including the Assembly, that the debt burden cripples our economies. We have spoken regularly about the unacceptable levels of resource flow from the poor nations to the rich. We have drawn regular attention to the unequal terms of trade, protectionist barriers and a disastrous global pricing system that does not pay us adequately for the fruits of our labour, whether we produce coffee, cocoa or copper. It is time the United Nations placed development and the crucial need for restructuring the world economy on its priority list side-by-side with, if not above, its peace-keeping and peacemaking agenda. The United Nations must defend each nation’s right to earn its way by being an equal participant in the global market place. Many of us have undertaken structural adjustments. Yet the returns of the great sacrifices we have made remain low. So many of us cannot provide adequate social services in the form of schools, clinics or clean water for our people. In many instances, bowing to the conditions set for the loans we contract to expand our export base, we have to lay off workers and thus consign thousands or even millions of families to indigence as the small pay check that puts a meal on the table, buys medicine when the child is sick, or provides the uniform for the new school-goer in the family, is no longer forthcoming. The United Nations has been advised, correctly in our view, to run efficient peace-keeping operations, to refurbish itself administratively and to upgrade its skills in all the spheres of its endeavours. We wish to add that the United Nations must now also place upon its active agenda the question of development and tackle it with the seriousness it deserves. We have striven in this Organization to link the environment, human rights, democracy and humanitarian relief with development. It is time we realized that peace-keeping and peacemaking can be carried out efficiently, and the problems that generate conflicts can be resolved, only if we promote the issue of development with vigour. And this can be done if the United Nations insists on a more just, equitable and transparent world economic system that will confer the means for development on all nations. The task of eradicating global poverty must receive the same attention, concentration and energetic action as are given to peace-keeping and peacemaking. The democratization process, which is part of the effort to promote and uphold human rights, should not be limited to the national level. The full implementation of the principles of democracy within the family of nations should also be one of our central concerns. It is in this context that we seek the revitalization of the General Assembly, where the sovereign equality of Member States finds full expression. We look forward to the General Assembly’s playing its full role in the maintenance of international peace and security as required by the Charter. We also welcome the initiative of the Security Council to make its work, including its decision-making process, more transparent. Such transparency will obviously enhance the legitimacy of its decisions and, equally importantly, reflect the fact that it is the Members of the Organization which, under Article 24, confer on the Security Council primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, and that in discharging its functions the Security Council acts on their behalf. My delegation sees no need to go over the case, which has already been well established, for the reform of the Security Council. Suffice it to say that, whatever the final form of a restructured Security Council, it is clear that its reform should be based on the principle of the sovereign equality of Member States and the clear 24 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session recognition that the Security Council acts on behalf of the Members of the Organization and should reflect the universality of our Organization. The Ghana delegation is ready to participate in the search for a more legitimate and effective Security Council. We welcome the commitment made by President Clinton to ensure the payment of contributions due from the United States in respect of peace-keeping operations. It is to be hoped that in the years to come the United States, which pays a substantial portion of the United Nations budget, regular and peace-keeping, will continue to abide by this commitment and also address the question of outstanding contributions to the regular budget. It is the hope of Ghana that this session will mark the beginning of the renaissance of the United Nations, ready to collectively commit itself to the pursuit of the objectives of our Organization as reflected in the principles and purposes of the Charter. I too would like to extend to Ambassador Insanally the congratulations of Seychelles on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly. We wish him every possible success in carrying out his duties. Allow me also to pay a well-deserved tribute to the Secretary-General for his tireless efforts in seeking solutions to the many problems facing the international community. Our session is opening on a note of hope, because it is taking place only a few days after a historic event of exceptional importance. I am referring, of course, to the signing of the peace agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. May that negotiation provide a lesson in those areas where misunderstanding, hatred and conflicts of interest are still bringing suffering to so many. The dramatic events and the human tragedy that are taking place in hotbeds of tension throughout the world are a credit to no one. However, we must take note of the fact that while reaction has been passive and hesitant in some cases, it has been quick and resolute in others. The quest for peace is nevertheless at the centre of our concerns. The considerable financial resources our Organization devotes to peace-keeping missions or missions to restore peace demonstrate this. This is undoubtedly proof of our own determination to bring to a halt these conflicts, which result in so many victims and destroy all the achievements of development. Indeed, any lasting development necessarily implies efforts to thwart the threat of certain situations turning into open conflict. 42 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session For us island States, the seas are a source of life. Our future depends mainly on them. And for our development to be truly lasting, we must have peace on the seas. While it is indisputable that old rivalries have subsided in the seas and oceans of the world, it nevertheless remains true that the Indian Ocean has always been coveted by all. And that is why we reiterate our request that the Indian Ocean become truly a zone of peace and cooperation to the benefit of coastal States. The concept of the Colombo Conference is perhaps something from a bygone era, but its objectives remain relevant today. Members will find it easy to understand, therefore, why we attach such great importance to the implementation of resolution 47/59 of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly calling for the organization by the Ad Hoc Committee of a meeting that would propose new alternative approaches leading to the achievement of the goals contained in the initial Declaration, taking into account the changing international situation. It is in this spirit that I should like to make an appeal to the countries which have not yet done so to ratify the Convention on the Law of the Sea so that we can get the necessary 60 ratifications for its entry into force. How are we to understand that such an important Convention has been endorsed by only 56 countries since 1982? Of course, we do appreciate the importance of what is at stake, but international solidarity must be our guide. The International Olympic Committee would like to revive the ancient tradition of the Olympic truce and declare 1994 the International Year of Sports and of the Olympic Spirit, and we should support that proposal. Let us not underestimate the values of the Olympic spirit. They are rich in potential applications for managing international relations. But no peace can be lasting while the causes of conflicts remain. These causes are selfishness, intolerance, xenophobia, discrimination and dictatorship, but also - and especially - poverty, poor management and excessive indebtedness. These are ills that generally lead to the emergence of new conflicts. Should we not attack the root cause rather than the effect? A few years ago, financial backers made democratization one of the prerequisites for assistance to developing countries, and as a bonus to democracy, certain countries benefited from the generosity of the international community because they had pioneered that approach. Today, most of our countries have embarked on the process of democratization - with varied results, admittedly - but the desire to fit into the new order was the underlying reason for all. Nevertheless, this new process, and I would take the case of the Republic of Seychelles, which has met this challenge calmly and successfully, inevitably entailed extrabudgetary expenditures in all areas, both economic and social. While it is true that the transition to democracy is something which is very valuable in and of itself, the establishment of new structures and the implementation of new rules have nevertheless been a source of additional costs which have placed a heavy burden on national budgets that were already fairly shaky. And almost everywhere, the implementation of this democratization process required the support of the international community. Is this not an objective reason to think about setting up a United Nations special fund to provide financial and logistical support for these reforms? To be viable, this democratic undertaking must seek to meet all the challenges of a country. If it is to ensure the continuation of these new institutions, it must pave the way for sustainable development commensurate with the aspirations of peoples. Thus, with the advent of the Third Republic, our country is today in a new stage of its history. For more than 18 months, within the context of a constituent commission, reforms have been undertaken that will produce a new Constitution and lead to free and democratic elections. In other words, for a year and a half national activity has been slowed, and even brought to a halt in some cases, while the fundamental economic problems remain. The Seychelles has been the scene of another momentous event, the Fourth Indian Ocean Games, which took place last August in conditions that were judged exceptional. Reverting to what I was saying, I would note that the cost of the infrastructure for those Games made serious inroads into the national budget. One might wonder how a small island country was able to engage in such a programme of reforms for 18 months in such circumstances. We are proud of having succeeded, but the economy must be restimulated immediately if we do not wish to lose all the social and political benefits that were achieved. Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 43 I should like now to take up the problem of the small island States, of whose fragility everyone here is aware. We are countries whose reduced size is the source of innumerable constraints on economic and social development, such as chronic deficits in trade balances and balances of payment, the high cost of social infrastructures in relation to their utilization and, especially, the excessive indebtedness caused by a lack of funds to finance investment programmes. The convergence of those factors has only exacerbated the fragility of our economies, which, generally speaking, are based on one or two sectors such as tourism and fishing. That is the daily lot of the Seychelles and other small island States, which, with courage, perseverance and intelligence, are nevertheless attempting to find solutions that will enable them to promote the economic and social well- being of their peoples. Thus we believe that it is quite fitting to draw the international community’s attention once again to the need to establish specific programmes and mechanisms that would make it possible for our island countries to move towards sustainable development. We ask that the same facilities that are made available to the least developed, landlocked countries be made available to us. In any event, per capita income, always put forward as a criterion for level of development, cannot be relevant for small island States because it is distorted by the small size of their populations. Has any thought been given to the per capita cost of infrastructures or the per capita debt? We believe that such an analysis would result in the reconsideration of many decisions. Of course, it is up to us, first of all, to take every measure to ensure the sustainability of our development by preserving, in so far as possible, our environment, which lies at the basis of all our export products. Despite all these constraints, we have been able - thanks to the judiciousness of our choices and our economic decisions - to achieve tangible results. But the international community’s support, which we had been promised in Rio, did not materialize. Today, all of the developing countries are in a precarious situation. They are confronted with many challenges: the poverty of millions of human beings, high rates of infant mortality, famine, the destruction of the environment and fratricidal wars. But these challenges are not insurmountable. What is required is courage and international solidarity. It is more than ever the duty of the United Nations once again to draw the attention of the developed countries to the effects which the continuation of such a situation might have on our economies and our cultures - in a word, on our future, but also on theirs. We would like concrete action, because we do not wish to have to deplore again the inertia of speeches or declarations of intent. While new conflicts arise, the old ones persist almost everywhere and the scope of the disasters is tremendous. Hence, we must react quickly, because many peoples have suffered far too much from the horrors of war. Above all, the major Powers, the guarantors of the security and regulation of the world economic situation, must give the United Nations the means to carry out its policies. Finally, we sincerely hope that the current session will generate the necessary impetus to resolve all our concerns, so that peace, at last restored, can create a climate conducive to development. On behalf of the people and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, I warmly congratulate Ambassador Samuel Insanally on his election as President of what promises to be a historic session of the General Assembly. I would also like to express my country’s profound appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, Foreign Minister of Bulgaria, for his superior guidance during a time of unprecedented change. We are gathered here at a crucial juncture in human history when numerous changes are becoming apparent. Few of us ever imagined that we would witness in our lifetimes the dismantling of the Berlin Wall, a handshake between the leaders of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, the peaceful separation of Eritrea from Ethiopia after decades of war, or the transition to a Government in South Africa that is truly representative of its people. In the current international climate we can be optimistic about the peaceful resolution of the difficult problems of our time. However, at the same time our world witnesses these triumphs of the human spirit, it also faces grave new problems, such as the tragedies that are unfolding in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Somalia. The new order will require fundamental changes in the attitudes and thinking of nations and all mankind. Gone are the clearly defined divisions of super-Power conflict. In their place are a myriad of problems, suppressed during the cold war, that are now resurfacing. The confrontation between East and West has given way to more intricate problems, without readily apparent solutions. There are no easy answers for bringing restraint to the extremes of ethnic and religious nationalism, or promoting human rights and sustainable development. Yet the past few months have shown the real progress that can be made on even the most intractable problems. Rather than wringing our hands, we must draw upon the diversity of views represented in this grand Hall and upon the examples of those who dedicated their lives to the struggle to bring peace to the world. The world’s billions are increasingly looking to the United Nations for solutions. However, as currently structured and financed, the United Nations by itself cannot accommodate the breadth and gravity of the many problems it faces. It is our view that the Organization must be carefully re-evaluated to ensure its effectiveness in a situation of new realities. We support the creation of an Office of Inspector General and will continue to study the various proposals for expansion of the Security Council membership. As proud Members of this body, we cheer our Organization’s successes and are troubled by its few setbacks. The Marshallese people mourn the loss of members of United Nations peace-keeping missions, which are bravely endeavouring to maintain peace and provide assistance to those in danger. Allow me, for a moment, to address the special situation of the island nations. The physical limitations of islands and their lack of natural resources, which larger nations might regard as insurmountable barriers, we, by necessity, view as challenges to overcome. Throughout history, islanders have displayed a remarkable degree of innovation and adaptation, which has allowed us to survive numerous natural and man-made disasters. Our people and way of life were not deterred by the horrors of modern weaponry from which the Marshallese people suffered during the nuclear testing. Despite the end of the super- Power arms race, the world must still confront the grave dangers of nuclear testing, nuclear proliferation, and the production, transit and disposal of nuclear material. The Marshall Islands will forever have a special interest in the dismantling of nuclear weapons because many Marshallese people are still prevented from returning to their ancestors’ homeland. As survivors of that legacy, we very much welcomed the nuclear-testing moratorium. We are greatly distressed that this moratorium has now been broken by one of the nuclear Powers, and we would appeal to the others not to follow this path. I should like to lend my Government’s voice to the voices of others that have called for negotiations on a lasting and effective comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty that will enjoy universal adherence. It is the wish of the people of the Marshall Islands that no one else should have to endure the same hardships and physical harm that we did. We pray for a world free from nuclear testing and intend to participate actively in the steps leading to such a treaty. We were proud to be one of the first signatories of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction earlier this year in Paris. We will do our part to contribute to the goal of the abolition of that immoral class of weapons and commend the many officials who worked on the Convention for their tireless efforts. Perhaps the most effective way to avoid the grave consequences of nuclear weapons is to address the problem at its source by prohibiting the production of weapons-grade plutonium. We therefore look forward to working on a treaty to this effect, and we commend the United States and others for taking the lead in this regard. The islands of the Pacific are especially vulnerable to the dangers posed by transport of nuclear material. We hope that such shipments will cease. If they are to continue, the States responsible must take every precaution to ensure that the safety of States along the sea lanes and the high seas is ensured. All of humanity is shocked by the brutality of nationalist and ethnic conflicts raging throughout the world today. The possibility of introducing nuclear weapons in these disputes threatens global peace and security and raises the spectre of death and suffering on a magnitude never before witnessed. My Government will continue to support all efforts to limit the spread of nuclear weapons. The efforts of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in the area of nuclear safeguards merit special praise. I am very pleased to report that last week the Marshall Islands was accepted as a member of the IAEA, and we look forward to contributing to the work of the Agency. We are confident that the Agency’s vast expertise in the area of protection from radiation can shed light on the matter and at the same time come up with remedial treatment for the many Marshallese victims afflicted by numerous cancerous diseases resulting from nuclear testing. My Government warmly applauds the increased attention by the world community to human rights and democratic institutions. Although it fell short of some of our expectations, this year’s World Conference on Human Rights was an important milestone in the efforts to protect the rights of individuals and vulnerable sectors of society. Perhaps more important, the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action clearly demonstrated that respect for basic human rights and fundamental freedoms can exist in a context of cultural diversity. As important as the Vienna Declaration is, it is meaningless without the means to enforce its provisions. We will therefore continue strongly to support efforts aimed at creating a post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and a Special Rapporteur for Women’s Rights, and we will continue to study proposals for an international court with jurisdiction to consider cases of human-rights violations. Tomorrow’s leaders are today’s children. With this in mind, we must ensure that our children are well prepared to accept the mantle that will be passed on to them. For decades, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has advanced this objective with determination, and we are especially appreciative of its assistance to the Marshallese children. We are proud to have recently ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and we encourage others to do the same so that the world may attain UNICEF’s goal of universal adherence by the year 2000. The Marshall Islands are endowed with natural beauty and a rich cultural heritage. The development potential of Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993 3 our islands resides in the preservation of their fragile environment. Because our land area is so limited, we treat it with the greatest respect and conserve it as best we can. Given the small land area of our atolls, we face constraints to agricultural and industrial development. As the pressure from a growing population increases in my country, additional demands are made on our resources. Regrettably, we have become increasingly dependent on imports to meet basic human needs. The long distances from markets of many islands result in especially high transport costs. In our case, we are almost 2,000 miles from the nearest major market for our goods. Consequently, transport costs raise the cost of goods to levels that are often not competitive. Even with competitive products, restrictive trade barriers further limit our access to markets. We are hopeful that the negotiations of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) will produce a trade agreement that is equitable and fair to all nations. The Marshall Islands welcomes with gratitude the recently approved country programme of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). It would be especially welcome if this plan of action could assist my country significantly along the road to sustainable development. The spirit of cooperation that was exhibited at the first round- table meeting in 1991 is evident in this programme. It is hoped that this will be the first step in a long and fruitful partnership and that the UNDP will become more responsive to the special needs of the Marshall Islands. Like many of the island States in the region, the Marshall Islands is not a traditional recipient of overseas development aid, and we have few bilateral partners. Given its regional expertise, we are pleased that UNDP is becoming a major focal point for our development assistance. UNDP understands the complexities of the Pacific region and the development challenge for the island States. We hope that the UNDP budget for the region will not be cut back any further. The Pacific is a vast area, and the logistical challenges faced by the field office in Suva, Fiji, are daunting. Sustainable development is a primary objective of Government planning. We are increasingly aware of the limits that constrain our development potential. We want to prosper on the resources that we have, but we do not want to repeat mistakes that others have made on their road to development. I commend our neighbour, Papua New Guinea, for the important work it has initiated to integrate sustainable development into the framework of international relations. The Marshall Islands is a small nation, and we increasingly feel the strain caused by our expenditures on the United Nations. We are, of course, very grateful and proud to be a part of this body, but we are becoming worried at the scale of new contributions, particularly for peace-keeping operations. The burden of membership is not shared equally by every citizen of the world, and we would like to see this inequity in contributions addressed in some way. If one looks at the cost of United Nations membership on a per capita basis, one sees that the island States are among the very top contributors. The vulnerability of small islands to natural disasters and to fluctuations in the world economy make it difficult to quantify the well-being of our people. Calculations of per - capita gross domestic product and other traditional economic indices do not accurately represent the standard of living in the islands. Perhaps other criteria could be devised to reflect the complexities of our situation. The Marshall Islands was one of the first countries to ratify the Conventions adopted at the Rio Conference on the environment. Developments subsequent to the Rio summit have been closely observed by the Marshall Islands Government. It is our sincere hope that the process initiated at Rio de Janeiro will succeed, so that our islands can be saved from possible destruction by global climate change. The Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States will increase world-wide understanding of the vulnerability of our islands. The Government of Barbados is to be thanked for generously offering to host that Conference next year. We are, however, a little disturbed by the response by some donor countries to the Conference. It must be reiterated that the Conference has its mandate from Rio and from the forty- seventh session of the General Assembly, and that it should be considered as a test case for sustainable development. It will be an attempt to address issues that are specific to small island States in their quest for sustainable development. The will of the global community to live up to the promises made in Rio will face its first test, and the implications of the outcome of the Conference will be significant to all. Throughout history the sea has united my people and has been vital to our lives. It provides our nourishment; it is a source of income; and our culture and traditions have in large part been shaped by the ocean. The majority of our population derives its livelihood from ocean-based activities, and our territorial waters abound with fish that can feed people around the world. Clearly, our fate is tied to the ocean. Today, however, our way of life is threatened by a rise in the level of the very ocean that has given us life for 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session thousands of years. We are greatly appreciative of the efforts and attention given to the problem by the world community, most notably in the Framework Convention on Climate Change, signed at the Rio Earth Summit, which my Government is proud to have ratified. However, for a low-lying atoll like the Marshall Islands the Framework Convention may have come too late. We are eager that funds from all sectors of the United Nations system, especially the Global Environment Facility, be made available for the purpose of adaptation to a rise in the sea level. We also realize fully that changes required of residents of industrialized countries will entail considerable sacrifice, at least initially. However, countless studies have shown that steps to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions would greatly benefit those countries in the future. The threat to the Marshall Islands is imminent. Our way of life is threatened. My country is threatened with a loss of identity and culture. We are powerless in the hands of others and my country may cease to exist as a result. I would like everyone in this Hall to visit our corner of the world before it disappears. I hope that 30 years from today our islands will not have been swamped by the sea and that we will be able to invite you again, rather than referring you to a page in a history book. For many, the Marshall Islands may be little more than specks on the map. The peoples of the Pacific hold a very different view of the world: that the world would be greatly diminished by the loss of even one of the diverse cultures that have been crafted by mankind. Let us strive during the coming months to work in tandem and to endeavour to fulfil the grand aspirations and lofty goals that this Organization represents. As we do this, allow me to offer a Marshallese proverb to guide our work: 'Jouj eo mour eo, lej eo mij eo' - 'Alone we cannot survive, but together we are strong'. It gives me great pleasure on behalf of the delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic to congratulate Ambassador Insanally on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I take this opportunity also to commend the role of his friendly country in the Non-Aligned Movement and the positive contribution to the United Nations made by the friendly countries of Latin America. I should also like on this occasion to voice our esteem to the President of the Assembly at its forty-seventh session, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the success he achieved during that session. We extend to him and to the friendly country of Bulgaria all best wishes for progress and prosperity. I wish also to welcome the new Member States that have joined our international Organization. It is our hope that they will make a contribution to the work of the United Nations with their active input. The end of the cold war has faced the international community with immense challenges and substantive questions most of which have remained without satisfactory answers while others have been left to the judgement of history and to the vagaries of time. It has become clear to many people in various parts of the world that facing up to these new challenges has not been an easy task for any individual country, regardless of its power or wisdom. The international climate has been rendered yet more complex and difficult by the reactions of those who have considered themselves to be the victors of the cold war. Their reactions have reflected their narrow short-term interests rather than the elements of the new reality which would have served better both their long-term interests and those of other countries - or which, in the very least, would not have done harm to those interests. This is one of the basic reasons which, to date, have prevented the emergence of a new world order. It was not reasonable to expect the countries and peoples of the world to support a system in which they have no say and from which they have no tangible expectations. This might explain why from one day to the next and year after year there has been less talk and lower expectations of the emergence of a new world order on the ruins of the old order. On today’s international scene we see little construction and few new breakthroughs; we see many ruins, much chaos and numerous unanswered questions. Has the world of today become more secure and stable? Have the causes of social tension and the many forms of regional conflict receded? Has the number of refugees and displaced persons decreased? And has the life of ordinary people in the South, and even in the North, grown more prosperous or comfortable? These are legitimate questions, but detailing the answers before this Assembly will not be a source of joy or comfort to many of us, especially in view of conflagrations in various parts of the world which warn of increased human suffering, ranging from killing and deportation to 'ethnic cleansing', and real hunger. Of such things, world public opinion knows but very little. Suffice it to say that the number of conflicts which figure on the agenda of the United Nations is far smaller than those which are queuing up in the wings. When we say this, however, we do not wish to give the impression, by such a graphic objective description of the new international situation, that the past was better than the present. Far from it. For such is not the logic of my country, Syria. Nor is it the logic of life, itself which, we believe, tends to move towards the better, inevitably and as a matter of necessity, even if it sometimes stumbles here and there or appears to be static at certain times. Our real aim in describing the post-cold-war international situation is to attempt a serious assessment that, we truly believe, we share with many other countries which aspire to correct the course of international relations in both the political and the economic spheres, in order to make them more democratic and equitable. In this context, we find no better framework than the United Nations to promote international dialogue and cooperation. In order for such dialogue to have positive and fruitful results in the interest of all concerned, it is necessary to introduce democratic reforms that would restructure the decision-making process in the Organization so that it may reflect the views of the majority. It is not reasonable, for instance, to allow the United Nations machinery to be manipulated, sometimes, in order to intervene in the internal 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session affairs of countries under one pretext or another, before the Member States themselves are given the chance to introduce the necessary reforms that would restructure the United Nations in such a way as to guarantee equitable representation in its main organs and prevent the use of selectivity and double standards in addressing the issues that are of vital importance to Member States. But how can the majority of Member States expect that such needed reforms of the structure of the United Nations would be introduced at a time when some countries that pride in ending the cold war resort to launching covert and overt cold wars against countries which would preserve their independence and stand up for their national sovereignty? We feel it is our duty to draw attention to the fact that failure to introduce the required reforms will render the United Nations incapable of addressing the regional conflicts that multiply daily. It is to be feared is that the important role of this international Organization might change in the course of time to one of dealing with the problems of tens of thousands of United Nations soldiers entrusted with the mission of preserving a lost peace. This would drain the Organization’s resources and distract it from the many tasks with which it is entrusted. The multifarious feelings of concern prevailing among most peoples in the world, particularly in developing countries, are deeper than might at first be apparent. We, as Arabs and Muslims, might well have become more sensitive than others recently regarding what seems to be designed to undermine our interests and distort our history, which, during its most glorious phase, was never racial or aggressive towards other peoples and religions. Rather, it was humane and civilized, as all objective Western historians attest. We have the right to wonder about the reasons behind the ongoing unjust campaign against the Arabs and Muslims, who are slandered merely because some individuals have allegedly committed a terrorist act against Western targets, while not a word is uttered against those who are truly responsible for terroristic acts against thousands of Arab victims both in the occupied territories and southern Lebanon. The time has indeed come for an awakening of the Western conscience and for addressing objectively the sensitive issues which affect the dignity of peoples and the sovereignty of States. The objectivity of the strong cannot possibly be interpreted or understood, by any ethical standard, as a concession offered to the other party. Rather it often promotes the strong’s status and prestige. It is well known to everyone in the world that the Arab-Israeli conflict is one of the oldest, most complex and most dangerous conflicts in the world. That is why the United Nations has been seized of it since it first started. It is also no secret to anyone who follows developments in the region that Syria, under the leadership of President Hafez al Assad, maintained for 20 years its deeply rooted belief in the necessity of establishing a just and comprehensive peace in the region on the basis of United Nations resolutions and international legality. Although many peace initiatives were put forward during the 1970s and 1980s in an attempt to address the Arab-Israeli conflict, Syria objected to those initiatives only because the solutions they proposed lacked comprehensiveness and because they ignored participation by the Palestinians and lacked the guarantees that would safeguard their national rights. Once it received American guarantees for the participation of the Palestinians and a comprehensive solution on all fronts in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978) and the land-for-peace formula, Syria has played a positive and fundamental role in the long and arduous negotiations with the United States over the convening of a peace Conference in Madrid. By responding positively to the American initiative, Syria, as the whole world has acknowledged, made the convening of a peace Conference possible. In so doing, Syria acted on the basic of its deep conviction that, or order for peace to be acceptable to our peoples, it has to be a just, comprehensive peace that would result in returning return all the Arab occupied territories and ensuring stability and security for the whole region. Without such elements, peace can neither survive nor become a true and stable peace in which and with which the people of the region can coexist. For any peace to receive broad and continued popular support, it must be honourable for us as well as for the others. The sons and mothers of our martyrs must feel that their dear ones who fell in the battlefields also contributed to establishing this peace on the basis of right and justice, and that with their sacrifices and blood they saved the nation from being forced to capitulate. Syria, which consistently believed in a just and comprehensive peace and demonstrated its earnestness and determination to reach such peace through the Washington talks and the constant coordination with the Arab parties and co-sponsors, is, in fact, more serious and keen in its efforts to achieve peace than those who deviated from the path of Arab coordination and through their unilateral signing opened the doors of the region to all kinds of options. Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993 19 Unless serious and urgent efforts are made to achieve substantive and tangible progress on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks, peace might be the weakest of those options. We in Syria do not exaggerate the value of this Palestinian-Israeli agreement because each and every one of its provisions needs new negotiations. At the same time, we do not underestimate its probable repercussions, especially on the Palestinian arena, where it has created sharp divisions. Regardless of all this, however, we think that the most serious threat the peace process faces lies in Israel’s attempts to give the impression that the signing of this agreement has achieved peace in the region, and that the international community, and particularly Arab countries, must behave accordingly. The judgement of history on the Palestinian-Israeli agreement since the secret Oslo talks has become the responsibility of the Palestinian people and their institutions. No one should think that Syria is going to obstruct this agreement, nor does Syria need to do so. But at the same time, no one should expect that Syria is going to prevent the Palestinians from criticizing the agreement, while the Israeli Prime Minister has not been able to prevent Israeli opposition from doing so despite his repeated assurances that he has made no concession to the Palestinians. Yet in spite of all this, Israel still claims that it needs enough time to digest the Israeli-Palestinian agreement in a blatant attempt to evade the serious follow-up of the peace process launched in Madrid two years ago. In the meantime, the international community, the United States at the fore, has seen the necessity of capitalizing on the momentum generated by this agreement to continue the peace process on other tracks, particularly on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks. The Arab States have also stressed, in the communiqué issued at the meeting of their Foreign Ministers in Cairo on 20 September 1993, that this first step: 'must be completed by urgent steps on all tracks and must guarantee the withdrawal of Israel from all the occupied Syrian Golan and from the Lebanese lands ... for the Arab League Council believes that, for peace in the Middle East to be lasting, it has to be just and comprehensive and must be based on Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978) and on international legality.' Peace cannot be built on lands under occupation, nor can it be achieved through the usurpation of the rights of others. Those who are trying to make people believe that the Middle East has suddenly been transformed into an oasis of peace and prosperity know better than anyone that peace, stability and prosperity cannot possibly coexist with occupation, arrogance and the denial of the rights of others. It is about time Israel stopped misleading world opinion and portraying itself as a victim. Is it reasonable that a country should continue to claim that it is the victim while it continues to produce and stockpile the most sophisticated of weapons, including all kinds of weapons of mass-destruction, and continues to occupy the lands of others by force, in defiance of United Nations resolutions? My country, Syria, which declares its positions candidly and clearly to the whole world without fear of blame, will not give up an inch of its occupied territories. It is committed to continuing the peace process in earnest and is also committed to doing all that is required of it in compliance with Security Council resolutions 242 (167) and 338 (1973), as well as the 'land for peace' formula. Syria will also continue to work with the co-sponsors of the peace process with a view to achieving a genuine, just and comprehensive peace so that the Middle East may indeed become an oasis of peace, stability and prosperity. Mr. President, it is with great pleasure that I congratulate you on your election as President of the General Assembly. This is not merely a recognition of your long experience and your outstanding ability and diplomatic skill, but also a reflection of the esteem in which your country, Guyana, is held in the United Nations. We are certain that, under your able guidance, the work of this session of the General Assembly will be a landmark in the new international scene and in facing the new challenges for peace, democracy and progress. I should like also to pay a warm tribute to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the determined leadership that he has demonstrated on vital international issues and for his excellent report on the work of the Organization, which provides much food for thought and indicates various areas of important activities that are the object of soul-searching consideration in this debate. May I remind Members that, from the beginning of its existence as an independent State after many years of colonial rule until its admission to the United Nations in 1960, Cyprus has consciously made the principles of the United Nations Charter central to its foreign policy, and, within its limited possibilities, has endeavoured in every possible way to be supportive of the Organization. Frankly, I have to admit that we followed this approach in our foreign policy both as a matter of principle and as a matter of self-interest. We have always believed that the United Nations was mankind’s best hope for a system of international order, despite the fact that we were aware of the possibilities of non-adherence to it and of the limitations to the effectiveness of the world Organization resulting from the existence of military blocs. Our self-interest as a small and militarily weak country made us feel the need for the protection of the world Organization, and, as a developing country, we stood to benefit from multilateral technical assistance and know-how. The Secretary-General’s excellent report testifies to the fact that, in today’s post-cold-war era, the United Nations is at a crossroads. Some years ago, in the context of the East-West divide and the continuing build-up of nuclear arsenals, we were agonizing in international forums over the future of our civilization. The cold war is finally over, opening up new prospects for positive change in international policies. New prospects are also opening up for concerted action and a global approach to the problems we face. In some parts of the world, the old regimes have collapsed and a move to pluralistic societies and the free market economy is being made. However, the newly acquired freedom has revived old enmities. This is not a strange phenomenon because, as the eminent, late Prime Minister of India, Mr. Nehru, said, the walk to freedom is not an easy one. World developments indicate, and clearly demonstrate, that unless the international community adopts a more unified approach in its understanding of the challenges it faces and promotes the necessary solutions, human rights abuses, increasing insecurity and hunger and suffering will create an explosive situation that will spare no one; we are, though, gradually becoming aware of the complexity and scope that even minor issues acquire in an interdependent world. The world is full of challenges and opportunities. Our common responsibility is to strengthen the world Organization in order best to respond to these challenges and increase mankind’s expectations of peace, prosperity and democracy. These expectations can be met only by making the United Nations more effective, through the implementation of its own resolutions and the mandatory provisions of the Charter. The General Assembly, based on the principle of sovereign equality, has much to offer and must continue to play its important role under the Charter. Nowadays, however, the Security Council has a substantially enlarged agenda. As the Charter envisages, it is able to decide and act. At present it is able to act in a more effective manner in the crucial areas of international peace and security. It is evident that the Security Council can now play a much more important role than ever before. This is a welcome development, and within the context of this expanded role a review of its membership to reflect the realities of today’s world is highly appropriate. However, the effectiveness of the Security Council, the highest organ of the United Nations, can be achieved only if it applies the practice of acting with determination. Experience has demonstrated that in those cases where the international community has shown determination to uphold the principles of international instruments and fully apply their provisions, progress can be made. In those cases where unity of purpose has not been shown or interests of nations have been placed above universal principles and rule of law, the problems remain, and peace is elusive. I wish to point out with emphasis that gaps in international law and practice - failure to uphold international law and human rights, or upholding them in one situation and closing our eyes to their violation in others - must no longer be acceptable behaviour, particularly in the new world order to which we all aspire. In today’s world, where economics plays an increasingly important role, the United Nations, through the Secretariat, the United Nations Development Programme and the various specialized agencies, carries out multi-purpose activities for the betterment and economic well-being of people throughout the world. These activities are outlined in the Secretary-General’s report, and in the interest of saving time I do not intend to comment on them other than to declare that we fully recognize their importance and support them. We look forward to receiving later in this session the Secretary-General’s integrated approach to development issues in his forthcoming agenda for development, which will no doubt appropriately complement his groundbreaking 'An Agenda for Peace' in matters of peace and security. In the light of our overall philosophy, as I indicated earlier, we attach much importance to the effective functioning of the principal judicial organ of the United Nations, the International Court of Justice. The increase of its jurisdiction in contentious cases is encouraging, and we also attach importance to the possibility of clarifying legal points in political disputes through advisory opinions. The International Court of Justice is indeed an integral part of United Nations peace efforts and we support the Secretary-General’s proposal that he be authorized to seek advisory opinions from the Court as an important component of the United Nations peacemaking apparatus as a whole. The Secretariat’s role in an improved and more effective United Nations is indisputable, and we pay tribute to the many men and women in the international civil service whose competence and dedication enable the Organization to respond to the ever-increasing demands made of it in today’s world conditions. The Secretary-General has already done much in the direction of rationalizing and streamlining the Secretariat, as well as in putting in place effective machinery for inspections and investigations whenever necessary, and he certainly has our support in the additional measures needed to carry out this Herculean task. We join in recognizing the undoubted need for an adequate financial basis for the Organization and for assessed contributions to be paid early and in full by Member States, in terms of both the regular budget and the costs of peace-keeping. Voluntary contributions are also to be encouraged in order to carry out the tasks at hand, and I might recall that Cyprus, besides endeavouring to play its Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 3 modest role in as many such cases as its means allow, has also undertaken to make, on a continuous basis, a major contribution towards the financing of the United Nations Peace-keeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP). Past and recent experience in every region of the world has demonstrated that the protection and promotion of human rights is an indispensable ingredient of a stable world order. Over the years the United Nations has played its full part in affirming human equality, which is, indeed, the heart of all rights, and in building bridges across the divides of race, ethnicity, culture, socio-economic disparities and political philosophies. Democracy and human rights are two of the United Nations Charter’s most cherished principles, and they have always figured prominently in United Nations conferences. Democracy is the only system of government that can safeguard the liberty of the people, respect for human rights and quality of life. We have a duty to remain vigilant and continue to look for ways in which these new opportunities presented by world developments may be used for the promotion of international peace, the advancement of the rule of law and the protection of human rights. The world community must clearly oppose chauvinistic nationalism, take a clear-cut stand against policies of 'ethnic cleansing' and unequivocally continue making all efforts until we achieve the complete dismantlement of the unjust and inhumane social systems based on ethnic political segregation and the development and consolidation of a non-racial, democratic South Africa. The effective promotion of human rights cannot be separated from the global trend towards democratization. Cyprus is in the forefront of States that have become party to treaties for the protection of human rights, both at the global level, within the United Nations, and at the regional level, primarily through the Council of Europe. We are especially sensitive on this subject, since one large component of the Cyprus problem in its present dimensions is the massive violation of the human rights of the displaced persons who have been evicted by force from their homes by the Turkish forces of occupation. Their homes and properties have been usurped by illegal settlers imported from Turkey to Cyprus in an effort by the aggressor to change the demographic composition of the population of Cyprus. All these flagrant violations of human rights have been committed by Turkey, a Member of the United Nations, despite General Assembly and Security Council resolutions calling on all United Nations Members to respect the independence and territorial integrity of the Republic, avoid any actions which could change the demographic composition of the population of Cyprus, withdraw all foreign forces from the territory of the Republic and allow the return of the refugees to their homes under conditions of safety. Cyprus is a case in point of the complete defiance of General Assembly and Security Council resolutions by one of its members. In reality, the intransigence of the Turkish side, which has rendered every effort to find a solution impossible, accounts for the hesitation of the Security Council to adopt measures for compliance with its resolutions. If a viable and lasting solution of the Cyprus problem is to be arrived at without further delay and a federally united State is to be established without occupation troops and settlers, concerted action is required by the international community as a whole. It is not only in the solution of the Cyprus problem that Turkey shows intransigence. The Turkish intransigence extends to purely humanitarian issues, such as cooperation in ascertaining the fate of missing persons and in implementing the third Vienna agreement regarding persons enclaved in occupied areas. I wish to express appreciation for the support extended to Cyprus by the General Assembly, the Secretary-General and the Security Council. We consider a good omen of further determined action the declaration of the Secretary-General in his most recent report to the Security Council on Cyprus, and the Council’s positive response to it, that unless progress is made on the Cyprus problem he will request the Security Council to consider alternative ways of securing compliance with the many resolutions of the United Nations on Cyprus. We have had occasion in the past to express our support for the constructive suggestions of the Secretary-General for improving the potential of United Nations peace-keeping operations in today’s increasing demand for them, including the training of personnel, the strengthening of the Department of Peace-keeping Operations and the earmarking of appropriate equipment and personnel for use by the United Nations. We are encouraged that progress has been made in all these areas and in the setting up of a peace-keeping Reserve Fund, but, in view of the ever-increasing demands and the worsening of financial problems associated with these operations, complacency is not justified and we should all continue to do our best to 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session assist in discharging this major responsibility thrust on our Organization. With regard to peace-keeping, it has been said - not without justification - that the United Nations should avoid open-ended involvement in peace-keeping operations. Cyprus has been pointed out as an example of over-long United Nations peace-keeping involvement. The broader lesson to be drawn from the experience of United Nations involvement in peace-keeping and peacemaking in Cyprus is that, so long as one of the parties concerned is not willing to comply with the dictates of the international community as spelt out in unanimously adopted and binding resolutions of the Security Council; and so long as the members of the international community, and more particularly the permanent members of the Security Council, are not willing or able to act effectively in order to implement resolutions for which they voted, peacemaking will lag behind peace- keeping, resulting in the indefinite perpetuation of the problem and of the peace-keeping operation concerned. This is, obviously, an unsatisfactory situation - unsatisfactory to the Government and the country directly concerned; unsatisfactory to the countries contributing to the cost of the peace-keeping operation; and of course, unsatisfactory to the United Nations. I submit that the answer lies not in abandoning the peace-keeping effort and thereby abdicating responsibility, leaving the weak at the mercy of the strong and striking a blow against longstanding efforts to solve the problem, but in pressing on with effective peacemaking through the implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions by all available means, so as to reach a solution consistent with the Charter and the United Nations resolutions. Cyprus is indeed a test-case, not, however, with regard to peace-keeping, but with regard to the effectiveness of the United Nations in peacemaking. If I set out at some length our views on 'An Agenda for Peace', I did so not only because it is very important, but also because Cyprus is itself a case-study of most of the problems it raises. I shall refrain from commenting on the long litany listed in this year’s report of international problems in which the Organization is actively engaged and which extend to all five continents. Each presents its own complications and special characteristics. They provide a measure of the enormous expectations placed upon the United Nations, the awesome burden of the Secretary- General’s responsibilities, and the respect and admiration he deserves in carrying out these responsibilities. As he rightly points out: 'The United Nations, by undertaking a range of problems as wide as the globe itself, must be expected to achieve successes but also to experience failure.' (A/48/1, para. 512) While in the past few years the world has witnessed the creation of new areas of tension and conflict through the unleashing of destructive and centrifugal forces of excessive nationalism and ethnic strife, there have also been some notable successes through the solution of several regional issues and the withdrawal of foreign forces following the end of cold-war antagonism. We have witnessed in many parts of the world the triumph of democracy and the emergence of free-market economies. More concretely, there has been the collapse of the Berlin Wall and the historic reunification of Germany; major progress towards ending the odious practice of apartheid in South Africa has been achieved; and, as recently as last month, the historic accord between Israel and the PLO was signed at the White House, marking a new era in the Middle East. All three situations had appeared to present the insurmountable problems of unending and seemingly irreconcilable conflicts. And yet, with vision and imagination, the political will for solutions was found. In contrast, the problem with which my own country has been confronted for too long has remained intractable, despite the existence of unanimously adopted United Nations resolutions and despite the mutually acceptable procedure of the good offices of the United Nations Secretary-General. In our view, the problem is solvable and must be solved, yet the efforts of many years have come to no result owing to Turkish intransigence backed by Turkish military might. We remain committed to reaching a peaceful solution on the basis of the United Nations resolutions and the high- level agreements. As clearly emerges from successive reports of the Secretary-General, we have cooperated with him in all sincerity in the exercise of his good offices for an overall solution, and we have responded positively to his proposals for the adoption, as a first step, of the confidence- building measures and in particular the placing of Famagusta and the opening of the Nicosia airport under United Nations administration. In 1945, the founding fathers signed the Charter in San Francisco, in the aftermath of a devastating war, with the vision of establishing the foundations of a better and more peaceful world. As it nears its fiftieth anniversary, a watershed in its history, the United Nations is again facing a major challenge in a rapidly changing international climate. Peoples and nations all over the world place growing expectations in the Organization’s response to the new summons for a universal alliance for peace and justice, for Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 5 democracy, development and international legal order. At the same time, the ominous phenomena of ethnic strife, destructive nationalism, widespread poverty and social injustice are undermining the vital role of the United Nations in opposing aggression and maintaining international peace, and are thus posing new challenges. As the Organization is restructuring itself in order to meet these challenges more effectively, it is clear that, by and large, the Charter has stood the test of time. As we approach the milestone of the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization, let us agree to spare no effort to make it more effective, and let us look upon the Charter not merely as a code of international behaviour that is difficult to live up to and comply with, but as a reasonable and practical model for everyday international behaviour and political ethics. The delegation of Belize takes immense pride, Sir, in your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. This is the first time in the history of the Organization that a Commonwealth Caribbean national has been chosen to superintend the deliberations of the General Assembly. Your election is, thus, not only the highest tribute that could have been paid you, but is also the accomplishment of your country, Guyana, and of the wider Commonwealth Caribbean. As a part of the latter, Belize may be forgiven for any note of self-congratulation that creeps into the encomiums we heap upon you today. In that regard - and we say this only slightly with tongue in cheek - we note that almost your first act of wisdom upon assuming office was the selection of a very excellent Belizean as presidential spokesperson. Let me at this time also record my delegation’s appreciation of the most able manner in which the outgoing President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, conducted the work of the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session. 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session In addition, may I take the opportunity to welcome formally to the United Nations family the six countries - the Czech Republic, Eritrea, Monaco, the Slovak Republic, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Andorra - which have joined the Organization this year. Allow me also to offer, on behalf of the people and the Government of Belize, our deep sympathy to the people and the Government of India for the heavy death toll and considerable material loss caused by the devastating earthquake on 30 September. Over the five years since I last appeared in this Hall, many things have changed in the world. In Belize we, too, have experienced change. On 30 June 1993 the people of Belize voted, through peaceful elections, for a new government. Once more we have demonstrated the stability of our democratic institutions and the maturity of our polity. In an age when the so-called global trend towards democratization seems at times to be a process that moves one step forward and two steps back, we in Belize are justly proud of our record. In these five years, some of the changes occurring in the global prospect have been favourable, and many of these are attributable to this Organization, which, under its distinguished Secretary-General, has been striving to fulfil the mandate of its Charter and find ways and means to cope with problems not necessarily envisaged by the framers of that Charter. In the brief tour d’horizon of the international scene which I shall undertake today, the first matter I wish to address is peace and security. We are very gratified by the positive developments that have occurred in several places. Uppermost in our minds is our own subregion of Central America. There we have been heartened by the movement of several of our neighbours towards reconciliation and social justice. In particular, we note with satisfaction that the brief hiccup of the events in the Republic of Guatemala in May and June does not appear to have seriously flawed that country’s efforts at permanent redemocratization. We are happy that the new government there has publicly confirmed Guatemala’s recognition of sovereign and independent Belize. Diplomatic relations between our two countries can once again proceed apace; and we shall continue the work for the preservation of bilateral and regional security and the search for a lasting solution to the issues that still bedevil us. In accordance with the principles enunciated by this Organization, such a solution must be on the basis of mutual respect for peace, for the rights of both countries to self-determination and for the integrity of each other’s land and sea territory. In the Caribbean we have hopes that the long-suffering people of Haiti will be rewarded by the return of its legitimate government. Recent developments in South Africa are clearly very encouraging, and we are confident of the success of the transition to majority rule, which will be heralded by the non-racial elections scheduled for April 1994. Then, in the midst of continued strife in the Middle East, we believe we see positive signs of the way forward with the dramatic opening between the people of Palestine and the State of Israel. At long last there seems a real possibility of the Palestinian people’s right to self- determination coexisting with the State of Israel’s right to safe and secure borders. We welcome the finalization of the demarcation of the boundary between Kuwait and Iraq, which was accomplished by the Iraq-Kuwait Boundary Demarcation Commission on 20 May 1993. We also welcome the adoption by the Security Council of resolution 833 (1993), in which it guaranteed the inviolability of the boundary between the two States. Encouraging, too, has been the consolidation of the broad consultative mechanisms for confidence-building, security, human rights and cooperation originally established for Europe in the Helsinki Conference and now substantially expanded. Such structures have considerable value, and we understand that our colleagues in the countries members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) are in the process of developing a similar mechanism with a distinct ASEAN character. Above all, we commend the Secretary-General for his vision in 'An Agenda for Peace'. Despite all these promising developments, however, the overall outlook for world security remains bleak. In far too many places the peace is disrupted by fratricidal struggle. Everywhere the crushing burden of armaments - to employ a famous expression used by President Roosevelt and Winston Churchill in 1941 - bids to drive our planet off its established course. The Second World War was partly fought, and this great Organization was largely established, to eradicate programmes of ethnic genocide. Now, nearly 50 years after the birth of the United Nations, we are experiencing several such programmes on a massive scale. Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993 15 I urge that during this session we take the first major step to right these imbalances, which affect global peace and security. Just as the Helsinki model is one way forward, we hope that another is the International Tribunal on war crimes, the judges of which this Assembly recently elected. Among other steps which might be taken are the following: Governments must forswear profiteering from the sale or sponsorship of the sale of armaments. There must be an expansion of regional and subregional systems of cooperation and coordination in the cognate areas of security, narcotics interdiction and counter-terrorism. This body must make firm recommendations for the development and rigid enforcement of domestic neutrality laws everywhere. Likewise, the international law relating to neutrality must be thoroughly modernized to proscribe and severely punish trafficking in arms. This must be not only in situations of belligerency, but also in cases of insurgency, rebellion and other armed conflict, both internal and international. The recent salutary reinvigoration of this Organization’s peace-keeping mechanisms must be furthered. This is a time when the United Nations is increasingly being called upon to act as a peacemaker in troubled and turbulent regions of the world. It is to the Organization’s credit that it has risen to the occasion by undertaking complex and challenqinq assignments around the globe. There was a time when United Nations peace-keeping forces could successfully be composed of contingents from the so-called third world countries. But recent experience has now shown that large and difficult operations of the Bosnia and Somalia type stand little chance of success without the active participation of major Powers. In this context, we welcome President Clinton’s speech in this session of the Assembly, offering to commit United States troops to the United Nations Bosnia operation under certain conditions. Yet there is still a role for small States. And we in Belize would be prepared to offer training facilities to the Organization as a contribution to increasing the efficiency of peace-keeping forces. This would be in accordance with Article 43 of the Charter, which calls for member Governments to make available to the Security Council 'assistance and facilities ... necessary for the purpose of maintaining international peace and security'. Needless to say, we would be happy to make our contribution in concert with other countries in our area. Either pre-existing regional security mechanisms and/or new bilateral and multilateral arrangements might serve as the vehicle for small country efforts at cooperation. As a backdrop to all this, the provisions of the Charter relative to peacemaking must be strengthened. In particular, a standing United Nations force under unified United Nations command should be considered and the Military Staff Committee must be made fully operational. In keeping with the Secretary-General’s quest to improve efficiencies, strict military discipline of United Nations forces must be established and there must be improved coordination at Headquarters and in the field. The most important of the steps which my Government believes should be taken is reform of the Security Council. It is self-evident that in these times of turmoil and increased United Nations activity the agenda item of equitable representation on, and increase in membership of, the Council looms large. Belize has recently submitted a paper to the Secretary-General, detailing our ideas on this all-important topic. I wish to turn next to international cooperation. I believe that there exists an international legal obligation to cooperate in good faith. It is anticipated in the Articles on principles and purposes and other provisions of the United Nations Charter, and is reiterated in such Declarations as the friendly relations Declaration of 1970 and the 1974 Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States. I will address the question of economic cooperation at a later stage in my remarks. At this point, I wish to train the spotlight on cooperation in the area of ecospheric concerns. As regards the ecosphere, Belize considers that the early and universal ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea is of paramount importance. It will be recalled that the Convention imposes myriad duties of cooperation. In that way, the weak, and not only the strong and mighty, will inherit the Earth and its waters. We have seen two recent examples of successful efforts at cooperation in the ecosphere. The first involves the ozone layer. In that connection, intensive cooperation by Governments and by private industry, pursuant to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, as amended, has led to a significant decline in the rate of expansion of the hole in the ozone layer. My other example is the cooperation of foreign and domestic agencies with the Governments of my country, Belize and Costa Rica, which has contributed to substantial 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session success in our conservation efforts. Cognizant of these successes, we appeal for intensive cooperation in all aspects of the ecosphere, including the termination of ocean and terrestrial dumping, the halt of desertification and the reduction of the causes of global warming. We also hope for a concrete programme of action at next April’s Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States to be held in Barbados. One area in which we must redouble our efforts at cooperation is the moral environment. In numerous Member countries the people have clamoured for cessation of corrupt practices in government and business, both national and international. Now, we are extremely happy to observe that the Secretary-General has established the new post of Assistant Secretary-General for Inspections and Investigations. In so doing, he has made it clear that the moral environment of our organization must be sanitized. We must support him in this endeavour. At the same time, we lend our voice to those who call for the accountability of all inter-governmental organizations to independent auditors and inspectors. My Government attaches the greatest importance to integrity and decency in public life. We applaud such international efforts as the forthcoming anti-corruption conference to be held in Mexico later this year to plan national strategies for fighting corruption. And we in Belize have recently taken our own action to strengthen the legal infrastructure necessary to banish the scourge of political corruption. In just three months since taking office, we have introduced four major pieces of legislation in our Parliament. They are the Prevention of Corruption in Public Life Bill, the Ombudsman Bill, the Contractor General Bill and the Freedom of Information Bill. This last, as far as we can determine, is the only one of its kind in the entire Commonwealth Carribean. These measures bear testimony to my Government’s determination to wage a total war on corruption and to make Belize the model of a just, honest and democratic society. I turn next to issues relating to international development and economic relations. For over 30 years, the Organization has painstakingly sought to spell out that the right to development and the duty of the privileged to assist the underprivileged are firmly based in international law and public policies. This right and duty were part of the 'freedom from want' principle, one of the founding principles of the 1942 wartime coalition that was the first to be called the 'United Nations'. Freedom from want had nothing to do with ideology and great-Power rivalry. Nevertheless, there have been dramatic ideological, geopolitical and economic changes during the late 1980s. As these changes have occurred, needs have increased but resources have not. Yet we have heard rumours that various initiatives to bring economic justice to this planet are no longer necessary. I respectfully suggest that nothing could be further from the truth. In fact, such controversial movements as the one to establish a new international economic order were merely, as we have intimated, the reiteration of an established principle. That is, those initiatives were the renewal of an order, not a new order. Furthermore, in the original Somalia intervention, we see strong confirmation of the continuing vitality of the principle of 'freedom from want' - for all of us will remember that the avowed objective of the current exercises in that beleaguered country was to bring food, comfort and succour to its suffering people. Thus, I believe, we are seeing the reaffirmation of freedom from want as a human right. At the same time, I would urge the Assembly to take firm steps to ensure that food no longer be used as a weapon by parties to civil and international conflicts. In all this we are acutely aware of the shift in world trading patterns brought on by the formation of new trading blocs. The most recent and prominent of these are of course the North American Free Trade Agreement among Mexico, the United States of America and Canada, and the Single European Market. And so, in some areas at least, the march towards wider trade liberalization and true market economy moves inexorably forward. But we in the South also see that our economies and life as we know them are threatened by these developments; our preferential access to markets steadily erodes and our terms of trade consistently worsen. What we are in fact concerned about here is the pressure to open up our borders prematurely to the free flow of agricultural and other products from the more developed countries. It is a bitter pill to swallow, even as we watch the protectionist squabbling among developed countries that has prevented the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round of Multilateral trade negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Of course, it would also result in massive economic dislocation followed inevitably by social and political unrest in our countries. Nevertheless, we acknowledge that we must in the long run identify alternative commodities that we can produce efficiently and with comparative advantage. I must stress, however, that we are hard pressed to find the resources required for comprehensive research, development and Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993 17 promotion programmes for new products. We must be afforded an adequate transition period to adjust our economic and production activities. I would wish, therefore, to take this opportunity to call on the countries members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to identify and dedicate significant financial and technical resources to assist small countries in developing alternative products. Of course, current trends in official and private financial flows to the developing world suggest that this is a cry that will fall largely on deaf ears. On a more positive note, permit me at this juncture to applaud the apparent resolve of the United Nations organs for development assistance to improve their efforts at coordination. In this connection, I single out for special mention the Secretary- General’s ongoing formulation of an agenda for development and the determined spirit of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to strengthen its mission and revamp its machinery. This, however, is but a beginning of what must be a crusade for development. The last set of issues I shall address are social, political, cultural and humanitarian. First, we must do much more to ensure that women are accorded their proper rights in the domestic and international orders. No longer should we merely echo the litany that women’s development is indispensable for economic development. We must ensure that women are accorded equal rights in all spheres. Furthermore, they must urgently be given equal representation in our political, social, cultural and other institutions. Again, I take note of the recent efforts of this Organization to improve the position of women in the upper echelons of the United Nations Secretariat. As regards refugees, it would be disingenuous to call for their enhanced protection without acknowledging the severe problems which host countries increasingly face. For instance, we in Belize do the best we can, but overcrowding a slender raft - even in a relative haven of calm - can bring dire consequences to all its occupants. Nevertheless, I am happy to report to this Assembly that Belize’s record of human rights is good and worthy of emulation. Our Constitution is founded on the principles of justice and respect for the fundamental freedoms of all our people, and our laws and practices fully conform to the mandate of our Constitution. The international scourge of narcotics continues unabated. Again, we add our voices to those who urge that at least the same degree of attention be given to curbing demand and improving public health, as to addressing supply. Narcotics, terrorism and urban violence are all gross manifestations of an awful cancer seeking to engulf our planet. One clear contributor to this is the mass and universal culture, or what passes for culture, purveyed by the moguls of television. While we welcome the utility of the new global news channels, we lament the other, baneful, influences to which our people are subjected by some aspects of worldwide programming. It is high time that this Organization tackle this problem. Finally, as regards human riqhts and humanitarian law, even over the brief period of five years since I last addressed this body, we have witnessed significant expansion in the activities of the Commission on Human Rights and the bodies established under the various United Nations instruments for the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. We have seen this Organization, on invitation, participate in monitoring and conducting elections and, in the unprecedented case of Cambodia, actually administer a country prior to the holding of democratic elections. Yet the basic rights of human beings in numerous places are still seriously impaired. Many of those who should protect, in fact violate. And conferences, tribunals and conventions bring scarce relief. In the realm of humanitarian law, we are hopeful that the International Tribunal on war crimes will set a healthy precedent. Nevertheless, we view with increasing concern the flouting of the Geneva regime, especially the 1977 Protocols applicable to various forms of civil strife. That regime is the other side of the coin of human rights. Whichever side comes up when that coin is tossed, it comes up tarnished. Clearly, despite a somewhat mixed record, the United Nations is no moribund organization. Nevertheless, as it nears its golden jubilee, it does require additional impetus, a more focused consensus for reform and revitalization. Let all of us, then, as we go about the business of this forty- eighth session, bear well in mind the words of the Preamble to the Charter and accordingly pledge our rededication to the task of saving succeeding generations from the scourge of war, reaffirming faith in fundamental human rights and equality, and creating the moral climate in which justice and international law will finally prevail. Allow me first to congratulate Mr. Samuel Insanally on his election to his responsible post, and to wish him every success in his work. Allow me also to express gratitude to the President of our last session, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for his able guidance of our work, and to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary- General, for his dynamic, tireless work to restructure the Organization and enhance its effectiveness, given the qualitative changes occurring in the system of international relations. I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the new members of the United Nations: the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Eritrea, Monaco and Andorra. The forty-eighth session of the General Assembly is taking place at a momentous time. The twentieth century, which has experienced two of the most destructive wars in the history of mankind, as well as the cold war and the arms race, which have depleted natural and financial resources, the intellectual and moral potential of civilization, is nevertheless ending on an optimistic note. Totalitarian regimes have fallen, scores of countries have gained independence and universal values of democracy and the market economy are now finding new advocates throughout the world. We are proud that our small country, which straddles Europe and Asia, a country with an ancient culture and a proud history, has not been left behind in the truly universal historical process of the triumph of democracy and national and economic revival. Azerbaijan regained its independence less than two years ago. The path travelled by our country over these 22 months has not been without difficulties and has been marked by contradictions and tragic events. Nevertheless, we are convinced that the young State of Azerbaijan is following the only true path leading to genuine independence. This has been borne out by the results of the recent presidential elections held at the beginning of October, when the overwhelming majority of the people of Azerbaijan voted for Mr. Heydar Aliyev, an experienced politician and recognized leader of our country, who is firmly committed to the idea of building a democratic, secular society with a market economy. Unfortunately, the natural historical process of the fall of empires and the acquisition of independence and statehood by their peoples is often accompanied by excesses of extreme nationalism. Many attempt to exploit the democratization of the social and political life of young independent States to undermine their internal stability. 22 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Nationalist separatist movements are often used as a way to achieve these ends. Unfortunately, Azerbaijan has fallen victim to such acts of provocation. For six years now the Republic of Armenia has been waging an undeclared war against Azerbaijan to fulfil its territorial claims. The sad facts of Armenia’s aggression are as follows: 20 per cent of the territory of Azerbaijan is now occupied by Armenian troops, and 1 million of our country’s civilians have no homes or means of survival. The economic infrastructure of the Azerbaijani Republic’s occupied region has been destroyed. Unique historical and cultural sites of Azerbaijan have been destroyed. And all this is occurring under the cover of an ongoing propaganda campaign and alleged non-involvement by the Republic of Armenia in the aggression. Azerbaijan has often proclaimed, and continues to proclaim, its commitment to the principle of the peaceful settlement of disputes. We welcome and commend the efforts of the international community, the United Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) as well as the efforts made by individual States - Russia, the United States, Turkey, Iran and Kazakhstan - in recent years to achieve a peaceful settlement of the Armenia/Azerbaijan conflict. Azerbaijan welcomed the Security Council’s adoption of resolutions 822 (1993) and 853 (1993) calling for the immediate, complete and unconditional withdrawal of the occupying forces from Azerbaijan territory that had been seized. Azerbaijan also welcomed the initial timetable - worked out within the framework of the Minsk Group of the CSCE - of urgent steps to implement Security Council resolutions 822 (1993) and 853 (1993), several revised drafts of which, however, were aborted because of the Armenian side. Azerbaijan stresses its commitment to the initial approach of the CSCE - that is, that the Minsk Conference should be preceded by the complete liberation of Azerbaijan’s occupied territories. This was stressed in particular by the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan, G. A. Aliyev, yesterday during the reception for CSCE representatives who are now visiting the region. We are confident that, despite certain difficulties - sometimes substantive - in the approach to the terms of the peaceful settlement of the conflict, the political realism and the sense of responsibility for the fate of our people shown by the Azerbaijan side will be appreciated by our negotiating partners. Azerbaijan, which is richly endowed with a variety of natural resources and which has a fairly well-developed industrial potential, has all the conditions necessary to overcome our objective difficulties in this transitional period towards a market economy.However, since one out of every six inhabitants of our country has been forced to leave his home and now has no means of survival, as a result of the hostilities and occupation of one fifth of our territory, the humanitarian assistance provided by various international organizations that have enormous experience in this area is assuming great importance for our country. In this difficult period for my country, Azerbaijan - and primarily the people of Azerbaijan, who have suffered most - has been given all round support and assistance by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the World Health Organization and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. On behalf of my people and Government, I take this opportunity to express profound gratitude to all international organizations, humanitarian institutions and specialized agencies and the peoples and Governments of many States that have responded to the suffering of the Azerbaijan people who have fallen victim to aggression. The Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan also expresses profound gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for having established a United Nations - United Nations Development Programme Interim Office in Azerbaijan. We are deeply convinced that the activities of this Office will help to strengthen and expand the comprehensive relations between our Republic and the United Nations system. We are convinced, also, that this cooperation will be mutually advantageous in view of the initial results of interaction between the Republic of Azerbaijan and the system of specialized agencies of the United Nations, the majority of which our country joined in 1992 and 1993. We attach overriding importance to international cooperation in the field of the environment and sustainable development and also to the comprehensive expansion of world trade and the elimination of all barriers that restrict that process. Azerbaijan welcomed the decision to convene a World Summit for Social Development and is prepared to take an active part in preparing for that Summit, the successful convening of which we believe will lay the basis for an Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 23 effective global development strategy for the twenty-first century. Our country is taking an active part in the preparations for the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), which will take place in 1996 in Istanbul. Thus despite the objective and subjective difficulties encountered by my country, Azerbaijan, during the past year has been taking decisive action to integrate itself fully into the world community. We are convinced that integration into the world’s political, economic and humanitarian process is possible only by increasing cooperation between States at the bilateral and multilateral levels. Our country shares the general conviction regarding the need to reduce the threat of the use of weapons of mass destruction and subsequently to destroy them, has acceded to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and is taking an active part in the preparatory work for the Review Conference that will take place in 1995. Azerbaijan supports the indefinite extension of that Treaty and believes that it should be made universal. We are convinced that the non-proliferation Treaty is an instrument that strengthens all international efforts and regional initiatives that seek to prevent any proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and to eliminate obstacles that threaten international and regional peace and security. In this connection we welcome the positive steps taken recently in the area of disarmament, including the adoption of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, which was signed by Azerbaijan and the majority of countries of the world. One outstanding example of our progress towards building a democratic, lawful State was Azerbaijan’s accession to the basic instruments of international law in the area of human rights, such as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees (1951) and the 1967 Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees, and some others. Our country is very interested in the various initiatives being taken in the area of protecting human rights. The idea of establishing, within the United Nations system, a new post of high commissioner for human rights, reflects an intention to enhance international cooperation in this area. We are prepared actively to participate in the discussions on this question. Another pressing issue, one that requires urgent and constant attention, is that of refugees and displaced persons. It is time for the international community to draw up proper rules and standards to govern massive, forced migrations which could help overcome their main causes and consequences. Desirous of making a worthy contribution to the various areas of the activities of the United Nations, Azerbaijan submitted its candidacy for, and was elected to, the Commission on Human Settlements and the Intergovernmental Committee on Science and Technology for Development. We are convinced that the great scientific potential and practical experience of our specialists will help these commissions to do effective work. In 1995 the United Nations will celebrate its fiftieth anniversary. In the almost five decades that have elapsed since the United Nations was created, its historic meaning and universality have become strikingly clear. Today it is time for serious, meaningful changes, changes commensurate with the needs of our rapidly changing world. We believe that, given the new context of international relations, the restructuring of the United Nations, and particularly of the Security Council, must meet the great expectations of Member States. Expansion of the membership of the Security Council, the need for which is the subject of serious discussion, should help the Council continue effectively to discharge its primary task, that of the maintenance of international peace and security.Of course the role and responsibility of the Secretary-General will shift towards enhanced peacemaking and diplomatic activity. In conclusion, we look to the future with optimism, to a future where peace and cooperation will prosper. We call upon States Members of the United Nations to make every effort to promote the establishment of a safe, secure, common home. We are sure that constructive discussions and debates at this session will make an important contribution to the building of a better world in the coming century. On behalf of my delegation, may I condole through the delegation of India, with the Government and people of India over the natural calamity which has befallen that great people. Allow me, at the outset, to congratulate you sincerely on your election to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly. I should also like to express my country’s appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for his constructive efforts. We hope that in continuing to play a constructive role in the new international environment the General Assembly will benefit from your diplomatic skills and broad experience. May I also take this opportunity to express our appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dedication to the United Nations and for his efforts aimed at reforming the Organization at this critical juncture. I should like also to welcome the new countries that have joined the United Nations. We are confident that their membership will enhance the role of the Organization and further universal acceptance of its principles and purposes, which aim at establishing and strengthening international peace and security and ensuring that justice is done. Today, the people of the Jamahiriya celebrate the anniversary of the departure of the last remnants of Fascism from Libyan soil, thus putting an end to a period in its history that was characterized by the domination of settler- colonialism, a period during which injustice and persecution prevailed. As our people celebrate this anniversary today, they reaffirm that relations between Libya and the State from which those settlers came are now relations of good- neighbourliness, based on understanding and cooperation in every field. During the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, there were numerous developments in the international situation. However, before I speak of my country’s position on those developments, allow me to start with a question which is of great importance to us and which is not unrelated to those recent international developments. Rather, it is one of their by-products. It has to do with the tendency of certain countries to impose solutions to their differences with other countries in a manner that is not consonant with the Charter of the United Nations or with international norms and conventions. In so doing, those countries tend to deliberately apply double standards, especially when the dispute is with a country that pursues independent policies and adopts unsubmissive positions. This is the case with regard to the dispute that arose between the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and France, Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 5 Britain and the United States of America, when the three countries declared that they suspected the involvement of Libyan nationals in the Pan American and UTA plane incidents and demanded that two Libyan citizens be handed over to stand trial in Scotland or the United States of America. Notwithstanding the fact that the Libyan authorities, once notified, took the appropriate legal steps, the other parties refused to cooperate with the Libyan authorities or to await the results of their ongoing investigations. Instead, they resorted to the Security Council and directed it to deal with this matter under Chapter VII of the Charter, which has nothing to do with the issue in question. Libya has not threatened anyone, nor has it endangered international peace and security. The whole thing is a question of suspicions and allegations that have to be investigated through judicial channels. Although my country realizes that this matter has been addressed, intentionally, within a framework that is totally incompatible with its legal character, it has continued to investigate the whole issue, as it has done since it was notified of the matter, because it is determined to uncover the circumstances and facts surrounding the case. Libya has also declared its readiness to cooperate by responding to the requirements of Security Council resolution 731 (1992), which include cooperation with the Secretary-General of the United Nations to ensure the success of the mission entrusted to him by that resolution. In this respect, my country has reiterated its condemnation of international terrorism in every shape and form. It has severed relations with all organizations and entities suspected of being involved in terrorist acts and has affirmed that it will not allow its territory, institutions or citizens to be used, directly or indirectly, for the carrying out of such acts. It has declared its readiness to punish severely those proven guilty of involvement in terrorist activities. My country has also declared that there are no terrorist training camps on its soil and has invited the Security Council, or any other international body the Council may choose, to investigate and verify this. In addition, my country has cooperated with the Government of the United Kingdom in trying to find individuals whom the British Government has accused of involvement in terrorist acts. More than one meeting has been held in this respect, and British officials have confirmed the Jamahiriya’s positive cooperation with them in this matter. Moreover, in order to determine the responsibility for the bombing of the French UTA plane, more than one meeting has been held between the Libyan investigative judge and his French counterpart. Contacts are ongoing with the French authorities to arrange the French judge’s visit, and his mission will be facilitated, provided he arrives in a peaceful and civilized manner and not in the manner of sixteenth-century gunboat diplomacy. I have spoken briefly of the measures taken by Libya in response to the stipulations of Security Council resolution 731 (1992). As regards the determination of responsibility for these terrorist acts to which the American and French planes were subjected, my country took legal and investigative measures and has called on the British and American authorities to cooperate in completing the investigation. It has also called on neutral bodies and international and humanitarian organizations to verify the fairness of the investigations. Concerning its contribution to the eradication of international terrorism, the aforementioned practical measures prove my country’s seriousness in stamping out this phenomenon. Libya’s eagerness to eliminate international terrorism was embodied in our call for the convening of a special session of the General Assembly to study the causes and dimensions of the problem. The matter that has not yet been resolved is that relating to the request by the British and American authorities to turn over the two suspects to stand trial in the courts of one of those countries. My country has spared no effort in seeking to resolve this problem in accordance with the conventions of legality. We offered to go to the International Court of Justice and we proposed surrendering the two suspects to the United Nations office in Libya for investigation. We also proposed that the Secretary-General of the United Nations establish a legal fact-finding committee to examine the verisimilitude of the accusations and carry out a comprehensive investigation. The competent authorities in my country put this problem before the Basic People’s Congresses - the legislative authority - in Libya, which adopted a decision wherein they stated they would not object to the suspects being tried before an unbiased and fair court agreed upon by all concerned. On this basis, my country announced its readiness to enter into negotiations with the countries concerned, under the auspices of the Secretary-General, on a venue for the trial that could be agreed upon by all parties to the dispute and that would guarantee an environment conducive to revealing the truth. To our minds, this is the substance of Security Council resolution 731 (1992). The Secretary-General was notified of this step in December 1992 and again last July, when he was informed that Libya 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session was prepared to discuss the proceedings and arrangements relating to the trial. The position taken by the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya concerning these disputes met with widespread approval from various States and regional organizations, including the Non-Aligned Movement, which is made up of some 110 States (see the Jakarta Message, A/47/675); the Organization of the Islamic Conference, with its 54 members (resolutions 6/20 and 21/14); the League of Arab States, which has 22 members (resolutions 5156, 5158, 5161, 5224 and 5281); and, last but not least, the Organization of African Unity (OAU), which consists of more than 50 States. The OAU, in resolution 1457, expressed appreciation for Libya’s initiatives towards the resolution of this dispute and commended Libya’s readiness to cooperate with the legal and judicial authorities and called upon the Security Council to review resolution 748 (1992) with a view to lifting the embargo imposed on Libya. The positions taken by these organizations show that they see the justice of the Libyan viewpoint, and also highlight their interest in playing their roles in resolving the dispute by peaceful means according to Chapter VIII of the Charter. It was hoped that the three States concerned would take these positions into consideration and respond to the Libyan initiatives, but our efforts have been rejected. Moreover, the States concerned have discredited both the flexibility and responsiveness of the Libyan position and have insisted, in contravention of international laws and practices, on the extradition of the suspects to the United States or Britain to stand trial before the courts of one of those countries. Libya has not, in principle, rejected the trial of the suspects, as it has confirmed from the very start. All Libya has asked for, and is still determined to obtain, is a legitimate and unbiased trial with all the legal and psychological guarantees that go with it. Intensive consultations and contacts in this regard were recently conducted, and their results were communicated to the Secretary-General on 24 September 1993. Libya considers the content of the Secretary-General’s reply sufficient and acceptable, and, therefore, the only step left in the resolution of this problem is that of convincing the suspects to submit themselves to the Scottish judiciary. The Libyan Arab Jamahiriya is encouraging them to do so. This was communicated to the Secretary-General in two letters contained in document S/26523, dated 1 October 1993. The Libyan Arab Jamahiriya has responded pragmatically to the stipulations of Security Council resolution 731 (1992). Now it becomes necessary not only to abandon the efforts aimed at tightening the sanctions imposed by resolution 748 (1992), but to lift those sanctions immediately. This is why we appeal to this Assembly, which represents the conscience of the world, to support the measures that have been called for by the international and regional organizations I have mentioned. The sanctions have caused the Libyan people much misery and have cost them billions of dollars in material losses, to which must be added the deaths of hundreds of children, women and elderly people. I do not want to go into detail, for we have elaborated on this in 14 documents, the latest of which is document S/26139. However, in brief, let me say that the embargo has prevented about 8,525 patients with severe illnesses from travelling abroad for treatment. It has prevented college professors from travelling to Libya and has led to the suspension of contracts with hundreds of physicians. The embargo has caused the number of fatal road accidents to double because of the difficulty in transporting the injured to specialized hospitals in neighbouring countries. Also, the death rate among cattle has been high because of lack of immunization and a shortage of preventive medications. It has cut the revenue from economic activities by more than $2,400,000,000. Furthermore, there is a severe lack of spare parts for aircraft, which has led to a plane crash with 157 fatalities among passengers of various nationalities. The easing of tensions in international relations has enabled the international community to achieve progress in the areas of disarmament and the protection of human rights. It has also enhanced international efforts aimed at solving disputes which, until recently, have been a source of great concern. This has included the reconciliation in Cambodia and the maintenance of stability in Central America. There are also positive signs regarding the attainment of lasting peace in Mozambique. Important steps have been taken towards full national reconciliation in Liberia, and the dispute in Rwanda is on its way to a final solution. However, these hopeful developments should not mask the fact that the world now is in the grip of unprecedented tensions and conflicts, which necessitate further efforts by the United Nations and regional organizations not only to resolve them but also to prevent certain countries from monopolizing the resolution of such conflicts. The problem of Cyprus remains unsolved. The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Balkans in general has deteriorated and continues to cause much human misery. Afghanistan has not achieved total stability yet, and fighting in Angola has intensified. The national peace accords there have not been genuinely observed, regardless of the international and Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 7 regional efforts deployed. The situation in South Africa has witnessed some positive developments, but an immediate stop must be put to the acts of violence which negatively affect the transformation of South Africa into a unified, democratic and non-racial State. For more than four decades, the United Nations has continued to adopt numerous resolutions on the question of Palestine. Regardless, the Israelis have refused to comply with any of those resolutions, all of which recognize the inalienable and legitimate right of the Palestinian people to self-determination and their right to return to their homeland. The provisions of General Assembly resolution 194 (III) on the right of return for refugees, of resolution 478 (1980) on Jerusalem, of resolution 3375 (XXX) on the right to self- determination and of resolution 799 (1992) on deportees are only a few dead letter examples. Despite the recent developments concerning the question of Palestine, the position of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya regarding this issue and the conflict in the Middle East remains as we have previously explained it, and let me now reiterate it: all occupied Arab territories should be liberated, and the Palestinian people should be supported until they have regained all their rights - the foremost of which being their right to self-determination, their right to return to their land and their right to establish in Palestine their own State, where both Arabs and Jews can live on an equal footing. In another part of the Arab homeland, namely Somalia, the situation is still a source of grave concern. Although earlier efforts were successful in creating a safe environment for the distribution of humanitarian relief assistance to those suffering from the widespread famine, the recent events, which indicate that the circumstances have changed, show how sensitive the situation is in that region. My country, which has closely followed the developments in Somalia, remains convinced that solutions to problems cannot be imposed by force regardless of the enforcer. Solutions can be found only through dialogue and understanding. First and foremost, the Somalis themselves should abandon their differences and work together to implement the agreements they have reached so that Somalia and its people may regain peace, security and stability. Given our conviction that peace and security in the Mediterranean region is closely related, not only to security and cooperation with Africa and Europe, but also to world peace and security, the strengthening of security and cooperation in the region is a high priority for the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. That is the reason why my country welcomed General Assembly resolutions in this regard as well as the resolutions adopted on the subject by other organizations, such as the Non-Aligned Movement. Once again, we declare that we welcome any and all initiatives aimed at removing the causes of tension, enhancing stability and expanding cooperation in the region. My country is fully cognizant of the fact that the strengthening of security and cooperation in the Mediterranean region is a multidimensional issue. However, we continue to believe that withdrawal of foreign fleets and the closing down of foreign bases in this region constitute the essential elements. Such a step would enhance confidence-building in the area and channel resources towards economic and social development. At the same time, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya believes that the use of dialogue and understanding - on the basis of mutual respect for sovereignty and in accordance with international norms and conventions - to settle differences would also constitute a basic element in restoring security and stability to the Mediterranean region. Moreover, intensified collaboration and coordination of efforts in areas of common interest would further enhance cooperation. For this reason, the Jamahiriya welcomes the steps taken within regional groupings such as the Arab Maghreb Union and the Western Mediterranean Grouping (5 + 5), as such steps constitute an important breakthrough towards the realization of peoples’ aspirations after peace, security and cooperation. Concrete progress has been made over the past few years in the area of disarmament, especially with regard to the reduction of nuclear-weapon stockpiles and accession by more countries to the Non-Proliferation Treaty. While it welcomes those developments, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya does not consider them to be sufficient and believes that the danger of nuclear proliferation requires further international efforts that would lead to the complete elimination of all weapons of mass destruction in the case of every State that possesses, produces or stockpiles them. Consequently, my country supports all initiatives aimed at achieving this end, including the enhancement of the United Nations disarmament mechanisms and especially the Conference on Disarmament, whose work has been crowned by the Chemical Weapons Convention. This is an ambitious document on the road to general and complete disarmament. However, my country has so far abstained from signing this Convention because of the existence in the region we live in of weapons of mass destruction that are not subject to international safeguards and inspection. Under such circumstances, it is difficult to consider the Chemical Weapons Convention without considering other weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East, mainly nuclear weapons. 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session My country has supported the call for the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones, including the proposal by the Arab Republic of Egypt which calls for making the Middle East an area free of weapons of mass destruction. Based on my country’s eagerness to stamp out the dangers of such weapons and in order to get rid of them, it has called on the United Nations to adopt the necessary measures to destroy nuclear, bacteriological, chemical and other weapons of mass destruction, such as ballistic missiles, and to prohibit and criminalize the development, possession and use of all such weapons. The international family’s current efforts to establish security and stability in the world, mainly through the redoubling of efforts to contain political crises and end regional disputes, should be expanded to embrace economic problems as well. The impact of economic problems on international peace and security is not less dangerous than that of armed conflicts. According to the 1993 World Economic Survey, the world economy continues to stagnate. Its revitalization requires urgent international measures which would give special attention to the developing countries, which suffer from economic difficulties that arise from trade protectionism, large external debts, restrictions on the transfer of technology, the reverse flow of resources and low commodity prices. In the context of the international community’s efforts to promote economic and social development, my country wishes to draw attention to the danger of the coercive measures of various forms, to which some developing countries, including mine, are being subjected. Such measures constitute one of the main obstacles to development and run counter to the Charter, the rules of international law and to all relevant General Assembly resolutions. Support for development efforts also requires the international community to honour its commitments to certain development programmes, such as the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. Africa attaches great hope to this programme because it would help promote developmental efforts that began with the establishment of Africa’s economic community and have been enhanced by the establishment of a number of subregional groupings such as the Arab Maghreb Union, which has taken important steps towards improving the use of the region’s resources and towards strengthening the regional ties that would enhance the adoption of common policies by its member countries in the political, economic and social spheres. Last year’s Earth Summit yielded important results. We are satisfied with the measures adopted towards the realization of the Conference’s objectives, especially the beginnings of a convention to combat drought and desertification. This is an extremely important issue for my country and for the whole North Africa region, which suffers from a shortage of water and is threatened by drought and creeping desertification. Furthermore, we believe that true determination to protect the environment lies in international cooperation and in honouring the commitments made at the Rio Conference. Protection of the environment is one of my country’s top priorities. Our first step in combating drought and desertification is the great man-made river. Our national plans include the reclamation of thousands of hectares of desert for the purpose of agriculture and settlement. In this respect, I must inform the Assembly that our efforts to expand environmental protection and maintenance are being hampered by the widespread presence of remnants of war, and of mines that were laid in Libya’s soil during World War II. International and regional organizations have adopted numerous resolutions in this connection, and the General Assembly has also adopted similar resolutions, the latest of which was resolution 40/197. All those resolutions have called upon the countries responsible to provide the information and technical assistance required for the removal of those mines and other remnants of war, and to pay compensation for the damage caused. Today, we call once again upon those countries to shoulder their responsibility and to respond to the calls of the international community and the United Nations resolutions on the remnants and debris of war. The adoption of international policies and programmes aimed at ensuring mankind’s well-being and attaining the best possible standard of living is one of our objectives. On this basis, my country welcomes the convening of the International Conference on Population and Development next year, and of the World Conference on Women and the World Summit for Social Development in 1995. To our mind, these conferences will give a strong political impetus to international efforts and activities aimed at stamping out underdevelopment, poverty and hunger. In welcoming these conferences, we are encouraged by the important results from the International Conference on Human Rights. They are a great achievement in the promotion of respect for human rights and basic freedoms. My country which belongs to one of the great cultures of the world, namely the Arab-Islamic culture that has contributed greatly to the promotion of human rights, is determined to continue to support the international Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 9 community’s efforts, deployed through the United Nations and its organs, in the area of human rights, so that we may realize the goals of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action. Given its interest in human rights which it considers to be the basis for development and prosperity, my country has worked to achieve and strengthen equality for all its citizens and to guarantee their rights. This has been stressed in the great green document on human rights and basic freedoms. The freedom enhancement act was promulgated in 1991, and a large number of international agreements in the area of human rights have also been ratified. In addition, the International Committee on the Qaddafi Award for Human Rights has been established. The restructuring and reform of the United Nations and the democratization of the composition of its organs have become a necessity if the United Nations is to be enabled to meet international demands, become more responsive to the needs of Member States and more effective in its work, in consonance with the goals of the Charter. My country has been following with interest the current attempts at reforming the United Nations in the economic and social fields. We welcome the decision on the revitalization of the General Assembly and the streamlining of its agenda. We hope that the ad hoc working group established for this purpose will reach a conclusion that strikes a balance between, and safeguards the interests of, all Member States. The Secretary-General’s proposals in his report entitled 'An Agenda for Peace' are a valuable contribution towards enhancing the Organization’s ability to meet the challenges of the coming period. My country welcomed those proposals, and has taken note of the two resolutions adopted by the General Assembly in this respect. In carrying out the recommendations of the Agenda for Peace, the United Nations should be guided by the principles of the Charter and especially by its respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of States, as stipulated in resolution 47/120, and confirmed by resolution 47/233 adopted by the General Assembly just last month. The strengthening of the General Assembly so that it may perform the role entrusted to it by the Charter should be one of the main objectives in reforming the United Nations. The Security Council, which Member States have entrusted with the maintenance of international peace and security on their behalf, should carry out its duties in a manner that fully conforms with the principles and purposes of the Charter and with international laws and norms. The Council should also improve its methods of work and adopt an objective course of action. It should not apply double standards when dealing with issues of world peace and security. The present facts on the ground necessitate an enlargement of the membership of the Security Council not through partial measures but through radical solutions that reflect the increase in the membership of the United Nations and take into consideration equal geographical distribution in accordance with the provisions of Article 23 of the Charter and the objectives of General Assembly resolution 47/62. Within the context of the reform process, it is highly important to review some of the provisions of the Charter that are no longer in keeping with the great changes that have taken place in the international arena. The world situation in 1945 and the situation now are different. This requires the adoption of bold measures in relation to certain provisions of the Charter whose continued existence constitutes a major impediment to the most important role of the United Nations, namely, the maintenance of international peace and security. Here, we refer to the veto power in the United Nations Security Council, which is held by a very few countries. The abolition of this privilege is something that has long been called for; calls for abolition have grown over the last few years. The position expressed by many countries, including my country, during the last session of the General Assembly and in other forums, confirms the widespread desire to abolish this privilege and highlights the fact that any collective security system that is subject to the veto power of some countries cannot be depended upon to maintain international peace and security. In conclusion, as we prepare to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, and as we look forward 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session to the next 50 years, we are duty bound, both as States and as peoples, to lay down a strong and just foundation for the world of tomorrow. The world we aspire to is a world free from conflicts, disputes and wars; a world where the means of annihilation and destruction do not exist and where the manifestations of poverty and suffering have long disappeared; a world of security and stability built by people on the basis of virtue, justice and equality, where democracy and human rights are reinforced by the absence of violence, injustice and arbitrary acts; a world where all people have a genuine opportunity to look to the future with optimism and to enjoy peace, security and happiness by truly applying the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. In contributing to the achievement of these goals, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya put forward a proposal designed to deal with and solve many of the problems and issues with which mankind is preoccupied. That proposal was circulated in document A/46/840 which I shall not address but which is available to representatives as an addendum to this statement. I congratulate Ambassador Insanally on his election. I have no doubt that he will conduct our work in a wise and balanced manner, in the same way as his predecessor, the then Minister for Foreign Affairs of Bulgaria, Mr. Ganev. Once again, we welcome the new Member States, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Monaco, Eritrea and Andorra. We also reiterate our gratitude to and support for the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali, who with clear objectives and diplomatic efficiency has undertaken the new tasks of the United Nations in an international climate that is problematic but promising. Serious conflicts, such as that in the former Yugoslavia and the sensitive situation in Somalia, still remain, and are the object of the work and efforts of the United Nations. There are long-standing regional confrontations and frictions resulting from certain national, cultural or religious identities; ignored for long periods, they are now demanding their rights, and not always in a peaceful manner. Moreover, there are still sharp economic imbalances between nations and regions, as well as the serious risk that the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) negotiations will fail because some Governments insist on maintaining anachronistic protectionist policies that adversely affect the trade opportunities of countries such as Argentina. Above and beyond these problems, this is also a time of hope and optimism; we are heartened by the expansion of democracy, the globalization of the concept of human rights, and the economic openness and reform in regions where state control once prevailed and where today the basis for freedom and the continual quest for peace is growing. Perhaps there is no better symbol of this hope and optimism than the historic agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. The Arab-Israeli conflict has until now been one of the more disturbing issues in contemporary history and one of the greatest obstacles to peace and stability. The consequences of this prolonged and painful confrontation have been felt everywhere; hence all humankind rejoices at the agreements that have been reached. Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 25 These agreements undoubtedly reflect the tenacious and intelligent diplomacy of the parties, the special contribution of Governments such as those of the United States, the Russian Federation and Norway and the support of the members of the Security Council; but, above all, they attest to the courage, intelligence and maturity of the peoples and leaders of Israel and Palestine. Today we wish to pay a tribute to all of them. Since its origin, the conflict in the Middle East has been of particular concern to Argentina, inter alia, because the Arab and Jewish communities in our country have always coexisted peacefully. That is why we have always hoped for peace and respected the need to avoid confrontation and achieve a just and lasting solution taking account of the interests of both parties. The agreements reached can be considered as a breakthrough in that direction. They open the door to a global settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict, and that is why we rejoice at their attainment and firmly support them. We call upon all States, particularly those which have interests or influence in the Middle East, to join resolutely in the support that the circumstances require. The Republic of Argentina considers the maintenance of international peace and security as essential. Hence, my Government considers that the efficient functioning of the Security Council must be a priority for the Organization. Argentina has therefore clearly defined its position on an eventual restructuring of the Security Council. In our opinion, that body has recovered the role assigned to it by the Charter. Any changes in its structure should therefore be made solely on the basis of consensus, always respecting the principle of the sovereign equality of States, and taking care not to endanger its ability to fulfil effectively the responsibilities assigned to it by the Charter. Hence we must act with the utmost prudence, and on the basis of the aforementioned principle, in making changes that would introduce structural modifications, creating, for example, new categories of privilege. In any case, it would be counter- productive to ignore the position of those countries that have actively demonstrated their firm and continued support for the Council’s important work. Mr. Bull (Liberia), Vice-President, took the Chair. Argentina, for example, resolutely and actively supports the system of collective security provided for in the Charter and the decisions of the Security Council. That support has been repeatedly demonstrated through concrete action in accordance with Council decisions, and in particular through our active presence in peace-keeping operations. At present, Argentina is participating in nine peace-keeping operations; in the last few months alone, we have pledged to send three new groups of our armed forces to Mozambique, Kuwait and Cyprus: a field hospital, a unit of engineers and an infantry battalion respectively. Argentina has the firm political determination to support United Nations peace-keeping operations, within its means. At the same time, I am obliged to mention some issues that currently affect the normal development of the operations and that somehow limit the ability of Member States to participate to the extent they would desire. We consider it a priority to do as much as possible in order to guarantee the safety of the men and women who participate in peace-keeping operations. The arrears in the payment by Member States of their contributions and the subsequent delays in reimbursements to troop-contributing Governments have created very serious financial problems for those Governments. For that reason - and also because of their own domestic budget limitations - these countries find it ever more difficult to increase their contributions of troops and equipment. A mechanism should be established at once to find a solution. In this context, we welcome the efforts of the office of the Secretary-General, as well as the initiative with respect to creating stand-by forces. The priority goal of peace also imposes on us a firm commitment to each State in the struggle against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. This commitment is one of the main focuses of Argentine foreign policy. Hence, we have brought total transparency to the Argentine nuclear programme. With that aim in view, we and Brazil have signed an agreement on full-scope safeguards with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA); we have already ratified it. In the same spirit, we have discontinued the missile project CONDOR II. In addition, together with Brazil and Chile, we have promoted amendments to the Treaty of Tlatelolco that would strengthen that major agreement and make it effective; we hope that these will soon be approved by the Argentine Parliament. At the same time, Argentina has been admitted to the Missile Technology Control Regime, whose guidelines we have included in our domestic legislation, and is a member 26 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session of the so-called Australian Group. We are among the original signatories of the Convention on Chemical Weapons, and we participated actively in its drafting; we will soon start the proceedings for its legislative approval. We firmly support the negotiation, in the framework of the Conference on Disarmament, of a treaty to ban all nuclear tests. The moratorium respected in practice by the nuclear Powers points to the existence of favourable conditions for the total ban of such tests. In the field of armaments, we support the United Nations Register of conventional weapons, to which we have recently supplied all the relevant information and data. We are particularly interested in the functioning of the Register in our own region; last March, in Buenos Aires, we organized, jointly with the United Nations, a very successful regional seminar on this very important subject. Latin America is now going through a promising stage. The climate of cooperation and harmony prevailing in the region contributes to political stability and economic development. The expansion and consolidation of democracy and economic and social growth have also been stimulated as a result of the strong impetus given to the process of regional integration. As regards the Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR), Argentina expresses the firm political will and determination to contribute to its strengthening. In this context we must acknowledge the positive role of the Rio Group, which has been consolidated as an increasingly useful and trustworthy mechanism for dialogue, cooperation and consultation. The Group’s information and internal communication systems have been enhanced, which enables it to take unified positions on common problems. This has increased its influence in the United Nations and the Organization of American States (OAS), where it has played a constructive and effective role, for example in relation to the crisis in Haiti. Indeed, Haiti is a case in which we note the opening of a path towards democracy - albeit with certain difficulties. Argentina welcomes the agreement reached under the auspices of the United Nations and the OAS for the restoration of democracy in that nation, through the successful mediation of Mr. Dante Caputo, whose performance is a source of legitimate pride for my country. Provided that the Haiti agreements are respected in their entirely, effective 30 October the Argentine Republic will contribute, in the framework of relevant Security Council resolutions, a field hospital to be used in the operation the United Nations and the OAS will conduct together to support the consolidation of democracy in that country. As regards El Salvador, we note with satisfaction the substantive progress represented by the peace agreements recently signed. We trust that the elections to be held next March will mark a decisive stage in efforts to consolidate democracy. We also express our support for the re-establishment of constitutional order in Guatemala and we encourage its people and Government to continue their efforts to strengthen democracy and the rule of law. There has been remarkable progress in the consolidation of a climate of peace and détente in Latin America as a whole, thanks to the restoration of democracy and to economic reforms. There is still one case about which we are concerned and about which we have repeatedly expressed our hope for profound change. The best option is to move forward in the same direction as the rest of the continent. Delays will only bring about more suffering for its people and more concern on the part of their Latin American brothers. The strengthening of a climate of harmony in Latin America requires new ideas leading to the development of a structure of regional security adapted to the present times and based on cooperation, balance and transparency. We believe that cooperative security is a realistic and feasible proposal for Latin America, and we urge the countries of the region to give it special consideration. Latin America must enter fully into the new international context. In accordance with the Secretary- General’s ideas on the role of regional organizations as stated in his 'Agenda for Peace', it should strengthen the contribution of the Organization of American States to the maintenance of international peace and security. Argentina shares with the rest of the international community the constant anguish caused by the conflict unfolding in the former Yugoslavia and supports efforts aimed at an urgent solution. We are contributing significantly to the work of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR), a force that has helped save thousands of lives and has worked to prevent the intensification of conflict in the areas where it is deployed. Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 27 We support the resolutions of the Security Council on this subject, and strongly condemn the practice of 'ethnic cleansing' and other war crimes. Consequently, we support the establishment of an international tribunal to try those allegedly responsible for violating international humanitarian law. We particularly condemn the inhuman attacks on the civilian population in Bosnia and Herzegovina and reaffirm the need to reach an agreement acceptable to all parties involved, based on the principles of the London Conference. We are deeply concerned particularly about the serious consequences that civil and international armed conflicts have on children. We urge the international community as a whole to devote the utmost attention to this serious problem and to initiate with the greatest urgency appropriate assistance plans to alleviate the suffering of children, especially in situations like the one in Somalia or the former Yugoslavia. This question - like those concerning the family - should be given the greatest attention by organizations such as the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). With respect to Cyprus, I reiterate our support for a prompt solution to the conflict, and we urge the parties to accept the plan developed by the Secretary-General’s mission of good offices. I also reaffirm our express support for United Nations resolutions aimed at guaranteeing the territorial integrity of Kuwait and peace and security in the region. We will continue to support the recently adopted Security Council decisions that, in connection with this specific case, demand respect for the inviolability of the international border - that have already been defined - and the right of navigational access. As regards South Africa, we welcome, together with the rest of the international community, the recently adopted legislative measures aimed at guaranteeing free and fair elections next April and establishing the Transitional Executive Council. We continue to support the multiparty negotiating process towards a democratic, united and non- racial South Africa. This is another of those world events that are on the point of crystallizing in the next few months, and whose importance is really much greater than we could have imagined even just a few months ago. I must mention once again the question of the Malvinas islands, just as we did a few weeks ago before the Special Committee on decolonization. I reaffirm Argentina’s well-founded and unequivocal sovereign rights over those territories and over the South Georgia and South Sandwich islands. The peaceful and negotiated recovery of the islands is a central and permanent issue in our foreign policy. The United Nations Special Committee on decolonization, at its recent session, adopted, for the first time without a vote, a resolution on this question, in which the parties are once again urged to start negotiations. We therefore stand ready to do so. As I informed the Special Committee, our relations with the United Kingdom would be excellent but for the conflict in the South Atlantic, where apart from the central dispute there are problems in specific areas. However, within this overall picture, there has also been progress in some of those areas. We have made progress in reducing the security restrictions inherited from the 1982 conflict and we have reached a provisional understanding on fishing for 1993. We now have to negotiate a new agreement - which is being made difficult because of certain recent unilateral British jurisdictional decisions over the South Georgia and South Sandwich islands - that must necessarily reflect Argentina’s legitimate decision now to relate its own catch to the actual potential of the area. As regards oil, there is still an impasse, both because of the rejection of a specific proposal for cooperation put forward by Argentina and because of the United Kingdom’s preference for acting unilaterally. We are still convinced that there is no realistic alternative to cooperation. We are sure that potential investors will also see it that way, because their situation would be highly uncertain and unstable in any other context. Argentina’s relationship with the islanders is an area in which there have been important developments in the last few months. Since the last session of the General Assembly, there have been communications between the inhabitants of the islands and Argentina. I personally have been in touch several times with some of them. My Government reiterates its conviction that it is in everybody’s interest to establish normal relations between the islands and the continent. We reaffirm that Argentina and the United Kingdom are the only parties to the dispute, but we underline also our willingness to conduct a dialogue with the inhabitants of the territory because they deserve our consideration and respect. We are also aware of the weight their opinion carries in London. 28 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The dialogue with the islanders has wide support in my country, and is a natural development in the civilized search for a solution to the conflict. It is important that the islanders themselves also understand that this is an inevitable step, because the only realistic alternative is to march forward together. The recent World Conference in Vienna ratified the universal and binding nature of respect for human rights. Today it is no longer possible to claim, as despotic governments have in the past, that the treatment States afford their citizens is exclusively an internal affair. It is a fact that the principle of absolute sovereignty has become relative and that the international community, acting within the framework of the United Nations, has laid the legal foundations for denouncing violations of human rights wherever they occur and for implementing specific measures to ensure that human rights can be exercised to the full. We therefore support the establishment of the post of High Commissioner for Human Rights. Furthermore, in the opinion of the Argentine Government, there must be universal and complete freedom of the press, because this is a fundamental guarantee of respect for other essential human rights. Whatever excesses there may be in the exercise of press freedom are nothing compared with the awful drawbacks of policies that restrict that freedom. Argentina supports the restructuring of the United Nations economic and social system in order to increase its effectiveness and global credibility in that area. In the field of the environment and development, we continue to give high priority to the implementation of Agenda 21 and the Conventions on climatic change and biodiversity and to the use of the global environment facility as a financial mechanism for implementing environmental projects in the those and the related areas of marine pollution and the ozone layer. Argentina will participate actively in the International Conference on Population and Development to be held in 1994. We support the negotiating process now under way and we agree with the conceptual framework agreed upon for the programme of action in that field. We shall also participate actively in the World Summit for Social Development, and we stress the great importance of the negotiating process and of what is included in the Summit’s agenda. I should like to refer to the deterioration in the Organization’s financial situation, which is so seriously affecting its regular activities and is endangering the normal functioning of peace-keeping operations. Reality tells us that the only way to solve the problem is the timely payment in full of the financial obligations of Member States. Such payment is a fundamental factor in restoring the financial soundness of the United Nations, but it is undoubtedly not the only one. We consider that it is indispensable for immediate steps to be taken to make the allocation and use of the Organization’s scarce resources more efficient, thus avoiding administrative disorder and possible irregularities or substandard management practices. A proper balance between budgetary control and the implementation of activities will enable us to achieve the financial consolidation needed to fulfil the goals set out in the Charter. In conclusion, we wish to reiterate our firm conviction that, despite the serious problems that still obtain, we are witnessing an encouraging development in the principles that in their time guided the founding fathers of the United Nations. Those ideals of universal peace today seem more within our grasp and in that context the Argentine Republic, a democratic and peace-loving nation, is genuinely willing to contribute to strengthening an international system based on law and justice, and guaranteed by the United Nations. Please allow me first of all to extend to Ambassador Insanally of Guyana on behalf of the Mauritanian delegation its most sincere congratulations on his unanimous election to the presidency of this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I am convinced that his experience and his comprehensive knowledge of the workings of the Organization, together with his personal qualities, will be the best possible guarantee for the success of this session and the completion of its work with the results we all hope for. It is also a pleasure for me to congratulate his predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bulgaria, on the exemplary manner in which he conducted the work of the preceding session. It is also a pleasure for me to reiterate to my brother, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, our confidence and great respect for the efforts he has constantly deployed since he assumed the duties of Secretary-General of the United Nations, to consolidate the universal reputation of the Organization and to strengthen its credibility and capacity to act. I should also like to take this opportunity to welcome the States which have recently acceded to the membership of the Organization and to extend to them the congratulations of the Mauritanian delegation. We are convinced that their presence in our midst will consolidate the Organization’s effectiveness in the interest of all its members. The past year has not witnessed any tangible improvement in the international economic situation. A combination of negative factors such as natural disasters and the deterioration of commodity prices continues to widen the gap between developing countries and the industrialized countries, hence the failure of efforts made by the former to emerge from the sphere of underdevelopment and poverty. This situation has continued to deteriorate because of the crisis provoked by the growing increase of the debt burden, which is a threat not only to the economic and social development of developing countries but also to their very survival. It is now an acknowledged fact that Africa is the continent which suffers most from the deteriorating international economic situation, in particular because of its tremendous debt burden. How could one really believe that countries which have barely enough resources to meet their own daily needs and the needs of their people might be able to cope with such obligations? Is it not time for the international community, and the industrialized countries in particular, to give thought to the gravity of such a situation and to consider the possibility of participating more actively in the quest for realistic and effective solutions to this very complex and important problem? In this context, I use the terms 'realistic' and 'effective' advisedly, because it is these two attributes which have been lacking in all the attempts made in this field to date. As for the economic and development situation in general, for all the conventions, strategies and agreements aimed at promoting development, that situation has remained static and in many countries it has actually deteriorated. Tangible progress could have been achieved in terms of real development for these countries in general and for the African countries in particular if the industrialized countries had honoured the commitments they made in certain documents - commitments such as the allocation of 0.7 per cent of their national income to official development assistance and if those countries had implemented the programme adopted at the Paris 1990 Conference. In this struggle for the development of Africa, Mauritania remains convinced that the more the sources of external aid dry up, the greater the need will be for self- reliance and the mobilization by every country of its own resources. That is the reason why, despite the adverse international situation and the unfavourable climatic conditions, we have been able to meet our basic commitments to our partners in development, whether they be States or institutions. In 1992, our country achieved a 2.5 per cent rate of growth. It financed from its own resources 20 per cent of its investment budget, which amounted to 17.5 billion ouguiyas. Here I should like to express, in the most solemn possible way and in the name of the Government and people of Mauritania, our thanks and our gratitude to fraternal and friendly States and organizations for the considerable assistance they gave us. It is clear that there is an organic link between development, on the one hand, and democracy and respect for human rights, on the other. Indeed, what value could be attached to prosperity and economic progress if we do not uphold human rights and safeguard freedoms? What objective for any responsible Government could be more 26 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session noble than having its people participate in an effective way in the management of their own affairs and the mastering of their own destiny? In contrast to the situation we have just seen which prevails in the economic sphere, the past year has seen a tangible improvement and an increased interest in the field of upholding and respecting human rights. That improvement and that heightened interest were made evident in the holding of the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna, at which our country was represented by a large high-level delegation headed by our Prime Minister. That high-level representation reflected the great importance our Government attaches to the question of human rights and demonstrated its unshakable faith in the need to formulate a universal concept of human rights applicable to all without any discrimination. There can be no doubt that the implementation of the important results of this Conference will strengthen the progress of peoples towards prosperity and stability. The importance Mauritania attaches to the events on the international scene regarding human rights bespeaks the commitment of our Government to bring our country out of the emergency rule situation that used to prevail in Mauritania as well as in many other countries. To that end, our Government set for itself, as a priority, the guaranteeing of fundamental civil rights and the effective involvement of its people in the management of their affairs and in the economic and social development policies of the country. In that respect, I am proud to be able to declare here that there is not a single political prisoner in our country. The democratic process started with the organization of municipal elections, which were a sort of school for democracy within the context of which citizens exercised their freedom of expression, freedom of speech, the virtue of tolerance and freedom of choice. These stages resulted in the adoption on 12 July 1991 of a constitution which guaranteed all fundamental freedoms set forth in the universal declarations and conventions on human rights. The constitution guarantees a clear separation of the executive, legislative and judicial powers. These various institutions were set up and are currently operating in their respective spheres of competence within the context of political pluralism and the freedom of speech envisaged in the constitution - for the first time in the history of our country. Seventeen political parties have been set up, and more than 100 newspapers and magazines have been authorized to be published in complete freedom. Given our awareness of the need to consolidate this genuine democracy and to ensure respect for freedoms and rights of all social groups, a law guaranteeing trade union pluralism that protects, in a clear-cut manner, all the rights of Mauritanian workers was enacted in order to protect the rights of citizens in the face of administrative red tape, and an independent ombudsman, with the rank of Minister has been appointed to investigate complaints relating to administrative and social problems. To deal with administrative problems and to complete the election of institutions as set forth in the constitution, the President of the Republic issued a decree which brought forward the date of municipal elections. In the field of social affairs, the Government, which has always attached special importance to literacy and to the promotion of the status of women as well as to women’s involvement in national development policies, created a department for each of these sectors. His Excellency the President of the Republic has shown on more than one occasion the interest he attaches to youth and children as an essential asset whose role is absolutely indispensable for the present and future of our nation. In the health sector, the choice we have opted for, namely health for all has been based on three essential points: first, a continuation of the hygienic efforts and preventive care in their various aspects; secondly, development of specialized medical services; and thirdly, making available to citizens essential medicines at reasonable prices. The satisfaction we feel at the progress achieved in the field of consolidating democracy and respect for human rights in our country and for our people is equalled only by our feeling of concern at the violations to which those same rights are subjected in other countries and against the interests of the peoples in other regions of the world. This situation is a threat to peace and harmony in the entire world. Does it stand to reason that the lives, property and holy place of religions of peoples could continue to be trampled and desecrated at the very heart of a continent such as Europe with its age-old traditions of democracy and respect for human rights? The atrocities of torture, mass murders and ethnic liquidation are all crimes which the Serbs in particular have been perpetrating daily in full view of and with the full knowledge of the entire world, against the Muslims of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This naked defiance of the entire international community, requires that the community as a whole should assume its full responsibilities and act accordingly. In view of this situation, we call once again for pressure to be brought to bear by all legal means on the Serbs and Croats so that they may comply with the will of the international community. Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 27 Mauritania has always set as a priority the question of Palestine. It reiterates its constant support for the fraternal Palestinian people under the leadership of its sole and legitimate representative, the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). It is in that spirit that Mauritania welcomed the agreement concluded between the PLO and Israel, because we believe it is an important step which will lead, we hope, to a comprehensive solution to the Middle East problem that would enable the Palestinian people to regain all their legitimate rights, including the right to self- determination, and guarantee the withdrawal of Israel from all the occupied Arab territories, including the Holy City of Al Quds. It should also make it possible for all resolutions adopted by the Security Council relating to this problem to be implemented, and it should create conditions conducive to peaceful coexistence between all peoples of the region. My country, which has the honour of presiding over the present session of the League of Arab States, would like to reaffirm here that Arabs have never been warmongers. To the contrary, they have always been a nation oriented towards peace, and working for peace. Now today, the Arabs, and the Palestinians in particular, have demonstrated that for peace they are capable of going beyond hatred, the pain, the wounds of the past and the many, many sufferings to which they were subjected during the Middle East conflict. Could they have made such sacrifices for peace if that were not the foundation, the very foundation of their civilization, and one of their primordial values? Could they have done so if peace were not a way of life and an end in itself in their traditions? Does not 'peace' in their language mean life? Those whose salutation means 'peace' and whose prayer ends with peace; those who, when they are transgressed against, react by calling for peace; a people bearing such values surely deserves the support of the Organization in bringing about a just and comprehensive peace after which they aspire. It is the duty of the international community as a whole to respond positively to this just aspiration for the recovery of legitimate rights. In this part of the world, the Middle East, the consequences of the Gulf war are still there to see in every country of the region. Mauritania, which has always affirmed and continues to affirm its commitment to international legality and which expressed total rejection of any violation of the independence of the sister country, Kuwait and the safety of its citizens, rejects any violation of the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq. We appeal to the international community to alleviate the suffering of the children and women of Iraq. Because of the moderation, the sagacity and the objectivity which have always characterized the postures of the United Arab Emirates, and also because of the legitimate position of this country with respect to Abu Musa, Greater Tunb and Lesser Tunb Islands which belong to it, Mauritania supports the position of the United Arab Emirates. We hope that Iran, the sister Muslim country and neighbour, will respond favourably to the legitimate claims of the State of the United Arab Emirates. The Middle East is not the only Arab region which suffers from tension. In the Arab Maghreb, despite sustained efforts which have been made for almost five years now, aimed at laying the foundations of a promising regrouping which would promise prosperity for the peoples of the region, as we have seen in the practical and important results reached at the summit of Nouakchott held in November 1992, two problems continue to be of concern to our leaders and our people. The first problem is the question of Western Sahara. In that respect, the United Nations continues to make efforts to smooth out the difficulties, which have heretofore made it impossible to reach a solution. While expressing our hope that these difficulties will soon be ironed out, we will continue our efforts together with the United Nations and the parties involved to reach a just and lasting solution. That solution would, no doubt, be an important stage towards the building of an Arab Maghreb, and a factor of stability and development in the region. The second problem is the blockade imposed on the fraternal people of Libya, which is detrimental to the other Maghreb peoples as well. In view of the willingness expressed by the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya to cooperate with the United Nations and the parties concerned, we should like to express our hope that the resolution on the blockade will soon be revised, and that this question will be dealt with through dialogue and understanding. As for the southern part of the African continent, we should like to record our satisfaction at the new signs of the disappearance of the last bastion of racial segregation, and this is a good occasion to pay tribute to the wisdom and farsightedness of President Nelson Mandela for the path he has followed in dealing with this question. We express here our hope that the measures adopted will be fully implemented so that a democratic non-racial regime could be set up so that it may guarantee the rights of all citizens of this sister African country. In Somalia, a brother people continues to suffer the ill effects of internal divisions, war and famine. If operation 28 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session 'Restore hope', begun last December, resulted in a certain amount of progress in humanitarian terms, unfortunately, its political outcome has not been satisfactory to all concerned. We hope that the international community will step up its efforts to achieve the objective initially defined for that operation. We also appeal to our Somali brethren to overcome their factional differences and quarrels so that the Somali nation may survive. Turning to the question of Angola, we hope that our Angolan people will listen to the voice of reason and cooperate with the United Nations Representative with a view to ending this fratricidal war, which serves the interests of none of the parties. With regard to Liberia, we note with satisfaction the peace agreement that was signed on 25 July 1993, under the auspices of the Economic Community of West African States. We have every hope that the opposing sides will implement that agreement and put an end to this destructive war, which has been devastating the country for several years. In Rwanda, there are new prospects for peace and stability as a result of the signing, in Arusha, on 4 August 1993, of a peace agreement between the parties to the conflict. We can only applaud this positive step while expressing the hope that it will mark the beginning of a new era for the people of Rwanda. It is encouraging that Mozambique has returned to a state of normalcy following the signing, on 4 October 1992, of an agreement that made possible the initiation of United Nations operations there. At the political level, President Joaquim Chissano and the leader of RENAMO met on 23 August 1993, thus confirming their determination to put an end to the instability that their country has been experiencing for several decades. In Asia, the Cambodian people has achieved a major victory with the holding of the recent elections. All Cambodians, under the leadership of His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk, must now consolidate that achievement so that harmony may prevail and national reconstruction begin. There is no doubt that the United Nations and the international community will stand by the Cambodians, as they have done in the past. The United Nations, which has an indispensable role to perform in the maintenance of international peace and security, deserves our full support and help. The Organization’s universal character, which is today given expression in the membership of 184 independent States, requires, more than ever, a revision of its structures and its methods of operation - in particular, through enlargement of the Security Council. In that context, we should like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General for his report 'An Agenda for Peace', the study and implementation of certain aspects of which has already begun. In this respect, I am very pleased to underscore the fact that at its last meeting, which was held in Cairo, the Council of the League of Arab States recommended the strengthening of cooperation and coordination between the United Nations and the League. In two years’ time the United Nations will celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of its founding. My country has the honour of being involved in the bureau of the Preparatory Committee for that event, which, we feel, will be a real and important watershed in the life of the Organization, as well as an opportunity for its Members to assess the progress that the international community has made towards achieving the noble objectives that were set for the Organization when it was established in 1945. Let us ensure that that assessment will be positive. Let us do so by redoubling our efforts to establish justice and peace and to promote the cause of man - the means and the end of all social- and economic- development operations. For its part, the Islamic Republic of Mauritania will continue to move forward in this direction, in accordance with its unfailing determination to achieve development - development for man and by man. On behalf of the people and Government of the Republic of Fiji, I congratulate Ambassador Insanally very warmly on his election as President of the Assembly. I am confident that his extensive knowledge of the United Nations system and his wide experience in the field of international relations will help guide this session to a successful conclusion. I wish to pay a tribute to Mr. Stoyan Ganev for the excellent manner in which, as President, he conducted the business of this Assembly at its last session. I express my admiration and deep appreciation to him for a job well done. I also congratulate him for his initiative in rationalizing the work of the Assembly, and especially in rationalizing its Committee structure. My delegation applauds the excellent work done by our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, in the period since he assumed his high office. I take this opportunity to express my Government’s deep appreciation for his untiring efforts in tackling the difficult and complex problems facing the world Organization. I should also like to extend a warm welcome to the new States Members of the United Nations, the Principality of Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, the Principality of Monaco, the Slovak Republic and The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. I am confident that the Organization, as it continues to strive for universality, will greatly benefit from their participation in its work. New threats are endangering international peace and security in all corners of the world. Incipient nationalism, ethnic conflicts and excessive protectionism are threatening peace, security, and growth in trade. Thus, a heavy responsibility is placed on this Organization, which, as we all know, is the main body responsible for promoting social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom. Behind these complexities, there are also many devastating structural problems that undermine even the best efforts to achieve security and economic progress. Population growth, if left unchecked, will add 97 million people a year throughout the 1990s. Poverty, disease, famine and oppression account for the 18 million refugees and 24 million displaced persons throughout the world. The gap between the rich and the poor countries has not narrowed, but continues to grow as economic difficulties in the industrialized countries have led to increased protectionist measures against trade. Environmental degradation further compounds these problems. In the light of these trends, we must underscore the need for better international cooperation in order to arrive at effective solutions. This, we believe, is a critical element in moving us towards the creation of an international order in which this Organization assumes greater importance as the centre of global endeavours. The process of reviewing the role of the Organization that is currently under way is therefore very timely. We hope that the review will assist greatly in determining how the United Nations can be strengthened and, most important, how each of us as Member countries might best contribute to the new order. The Secretary-General, in his report on the work of the Organization, has quite rightly stressed the need for adequate resources. We share his anxiety, and join in his call to Members to ensure that their contributions to the regular budget, as well as to the peace-keeping budget, are met on time and in full. We must make every effort to explore all possible avenues for ensuring that the Organization is put back onto a viable financial path. My Government would like to pay a tribute to the entire United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) team for the way in which they carried out their mission in particularly difficult and dangerous conditions. Fiji is pleased to have joined other Members of the United Nations in restoring peace in Cambodia through its participation in UNTAC. That mission has now successfully completed its major task. For the people of Cambodia, who unambiguously demonstrated their desire for peace and democracy, it is the beginning of a new era. We urge all factions to cooperate fully with the new Government by keeping alive the spirit of the Agreements signed in Paris. The age-old problem in the Middle East has taken a new turn during the past month. This turn of events spells hope for the future in the Middle East - indeed, in the entire world and for all humanity. The desire of both Prime 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel and Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) to achieve peace for their peoples has necessitated the dismantling of differences that have existed for decades. The Washington accords should pave the way for a lasting peace. Humanity has been touched by this historic event - the coming together of two arch-rivals for the sake of peace. We congratulate Prime Minister Rabin and Chairman Arafat - indeed, all who have laboured to bring this peace pact to reality. We must also acknowledge the contribution of the United States of America and, indeed, the United Nations and others over the years. While positive developments are taking place in the Middle East and Cambodia, Fiji is deeply saddened at the fact that the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina remains unresolved. Our profound sympathy goes to all who have suffered untold misery. Such a tragedy should not be allowed to continue. We recognize that the issue is a highly complex one, but the international community must do all it can to stop the slaughter, prevent the conflict from spreading, and achieve a lasting and equitable settlement. We are equally saddened at the events in Somalia. The success of the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM) in meeting the humanitarian challenge has cast a ray of hope, for which the United Nations deserves praise and, indeed, support. However, recent violence against UNOSOM II personnel must be condemned, and efforts to find ways of reducing tension between the peace-keepers and the local population must be given high priority. Having for years witnessed the repugnant policy of apartheid in South Africa, we are pleased at the rapidity with which that policy has recently been broken down. We congratulate the leadership in South Africa - the South African Government, the African National Congress (ANC) and others - for their courage, determination and foresight in getting together and dismantling apartheid. The United Nations has played a major role in the process, but we should continue the effort until a democratic Government is elected by all - I repeat: all - the peoples of South Africa. Fiji, like the other members of the South Pacific Forum, shares the sentiments that the Secretary-General expresses in 'An Agenda for Peace', in which he highlights the positive role that regional organizations can play in the maintenance of international peace and security in their own regions. Fiji will support such regional initiatives. On the economic front, we believe that a successful conclusion to the Uruguay Round is vital to economic growth and prosperity in all our countries. Only increased access to markets for our exports, especially in areas of comparative advantage, will enable us to increase our external purchasing power - our ability to pay for imports from the developed countries. In any event, we look forward to a genuinely equitable outcome that will include a substantial and liberalizing effect on trade in agricultural products. Slow progress in finalizing the Round has led to the formation and strengthening of regional trading blocs. Many new initiatives now being put in place are defensive responses to existing regional trading arrangements. These have the potential to weaken the multilateral character of the trading system, as many of them do not comply with the spirit and the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Developing countries, it has been estimated, lose about $100 billion a year in export revenues as a result of market barriers in industrialized countries - about twice the official development assistance that the industrialized countries provide. Furthermore, it is most ironic that taxpayers in the industrialized countries pay both for aid and for imports that are more costly as a result of trade barriers, while the poorest developing countries lose more in trade than they gain in aid. For these reasons alone, further progress in trade liberalization, through success in the Uruguay Round, is very urgent, and we join other delegations in stressing that no effort should be spared in bringing the Round to a successful conclusion. Of the 42 resolutions on disarmament issues adopted by the Assembly at its last session, 15 deal with various ways of controlling nuclear arms, the management of nuclear waste, the banning of nuclear tests and the elimination of nuclear weapons. In this regard, we welcome the decisions by nuclear Powers to extend their testing moratorium, and we regret very much that this moratorium has just been breached. We call on all nuclear Powers to continue to honour the moratorium. In August this year, the South Pacific Forum welcomed the commitment by the Governments of France, the United Kingdom and the United States to the early negotiation of a comprehensive test-ban treaty. We take this opportunity to urge all the nuclear- weapon States to participate actively in the negotiations and to adopt the Treaty as soon as possible. The signing of the chemical-weapons Convention in Paris early this year was a major step forward in the process of eliminating weapons of mass destruction. As a Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 11 demonstration of its commitment to that end, Fiji has not only signed the Convention but also ratified it - the first country to do so. In the South Pacific Forum, member Governments, including the Government of Fiji, highlighted the importance of an enhanced international regime to deal with possible transboundary damage arising from peaceful nuclear activity, and noted the absence of effective international rules for nuclear liability. Members of the Forum have agreed to participate in the ongoing deliberations of the Standing Committee on Nuclear Liability convened by the International Atomic Energy Agency and to support the establishment of a comprehensive international legal regime dealing with liability for nuclear damage and reflecting fully the principle that the polluter should pay. Fiji welcomes the continuing growth in the number of parties to the non-proliferation Treaty and will support indefinite extension of the Treaty. In support of international peace and security, we have consistently contributed to many peace-keeping operations over the years. Since our first participation in peace-keeping operations in 1978, Fiji has been involved in seven. We pay tribute to the men and women currently engaged in United Nations peace-keeping operations around the world. Peace-keepers are being increasingly asked to serve in high-risk environments. That these are high-risk operations is tragically borne out by the fact that hundreds of peace-keepers have made the supreme sacrifice in their service to humanity. The time is right for the issue of the safety and security of peace-keeping personnel to be addressed in a more systematic, comprehensive and practical manner, and we support the notion wholeheartedly. The related question of responsibility for attacks on United Nations and associated personnel, and measures to ensure that those responsible for such attacks are brought to justice, is also now an important one to address. We shall fully support any effort in that direction. Apart from the large increase in the number of peace-keeping operations, many important changes are taking place in the nature of peace-keeping. The eight peace-keeping operations undertaken since the end of the cold war have involved not only traditional military activities but also a wide range of humanitarian and civilian activities. The constantly changing nature of the various crises means that we must increasingly be more innovative in designing peace-keeping operations, as they are normally very costly. As indicated in the report of the Secretary-General, the 17 peace-keeping operations are now costing the Organization some $2.8 billion annually. To some extent, the answer to the increasing costs lies in more preventive diplomacy aimed at defusing potential conflicts. Moreover, the involvement of Member States, either on an individual basis or through regional organizations, in peace-building and peace-keeping activities appears to be another effective way of preventing military clashes. In this regard, the Secretary-General has placed before us several suggestions which, we believe, deserve our serious consideration and action. I now wish to turn briefly to a subject that has been the focus of a great deal of attention, especially during the last three years; that is, the subject of sustainable development. Several resolutions adopted by the Assembly on following up the important decisions taken at Rio about 15 months ago are now being implemented at various levels. It is most encouraging that we now have 162 countries that have signed the Framework Convention on Climate Change, and 26 countries that have ratified it. Fiji ratified the Convention in February this year, and hopes that the required number of ratifications, 50, will soon be achieved, so that the Convention can enter into force. As global warming and a rise in sea level are amongst the most serious threats to the Pacific region and to the survival of some small island States, Fiji reaffirms its support for the Convention and takes this opportunity to urge all States to sign and ratify it as soon as possible. Fiji has been active in the area of environmental management and protection. The Rio Conference has, however, changed the way in which many of us now view environment and development issues. More than ever before, we are committed to the idea that the development of our economy and society must not come at the expense of our environment. To the contrary: development and environmental protection are complementary. My Government is committed to sound environmental management and protection as an integral part of our decision-making process. A national environment strategy has now been adopted by the Government, and will form the basis for further work on environmental issues in Fiji. The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development has recognized in the Agenda 21 plan of action for sustainable development, that small island developing countries are a special case for sustainable development. Small island countries supporting small communities are ecologically fragile and vulnerable; because of our small 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session size, our resources are limited, and because of our geographic dispersion and isolation from markets, we are placed at a disadvantage economically and have limited economies of scale. Our dependence on the ocean and our coastal environments is also very significant. They are not only of strategic importance to us; they also constitute a valuable development resource. It was in this context that, last year, we welcomed the adoption of General Assembly resolution 47/189 calling for a Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, to be convened in April 1994. We appreciate the very important work that has been put into the organizational session and the preparatory meetings, convened early this year. We hope that the Conference will be successful and will help us not only to identify the most critical issues involved but also to agree on precise and practical solutions for overcoming our vulnerabilities. We urge all member countries to participate in this Conference and to assist in finding solutions to problems that have buffeted small island countries for a very long time. The small island States contain a wealth of biological diversity of global significance - our rich marine ecosystems rivalling the better-known tropical rain forests in their importance to life on this planet and in their potential for new knowledge and new products, including medicines. An international cooperative approach to conserving our coastal and marine resources would benefit not just the island States but the world as a whole. The international community met in July this year and examined ways and means of conserving and managing straddling and highly migratory fish stocks. We believe that good progress was made at this meeting in identifying the problems that exist and areas in which fisheries cooperation between States could be improved. There are still, however, several important tasks remaining that need to be completed before the next session of the Assembly. Fiji, therefore, fully supports the convening of two further sessions next year to enable the Conference to reach agreement on all issues relating to the conservation and management of straddling and highly migratory fish stocks. Fiji was the first country to ratify the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. We are therefore gratified that the Convention is soon to achieve the 60 ratifications required for its entry into force. We continue to support all efforts towards universal participation in this very important Convention, which is to govern over 70 per cent of the Earth’s surface. In this regard, we are pleased that all States - including now the United States - are engaged in the ongoing dialogue to resolve the outstanding problems and thereby pave the way towards universality for the Convention. Over the next few years, the Organization will be focusing its attention and energies on the convening of several very important international conferences. While these conferences will be important in themselves, as they will bring together the world community, they will not only discuss issues that are assigned to them but will also provide opportunities to arrive by consensus at solutions to many of the critical problems facing the world today. The World Summit on Social Development planned for 1995 will help to strengthen social development in all countries by giving political impetus, at the highest level, to the promotion of social policies. The three core issues that have been established for the Summit - the alleviation of poverty, the growth of employment, and the enhancement of social integration, especially of disadvantaged groups - are all essential. Above all, the Summit should, in our view, foster greater understanding of the importance of social development and, particularly, its relationship with economic development and protection of the environment. The Fourth World Conference on Women, to be convened in Beijing in 1995, will, we hope, be action-- oriented and provide an opportunity to review past activities and, most important, set new priorities. For its part, my Government is fully committed to strengthening the role of women in economic and social development and has taken several steps to integrate women into the mainstream of national development. Towards this end, plans have been formulated and are being implemented by the Ministry of Women and Culture, other sectoral ministries and non- governmental organizations. Women constitute more than 50 per cent of Fiji’s population, which makes them valuable partners in the growth and development of our country and the uplifting of our people. We are, at the same time, also turning our attention to the situation and needs of children in Fiji as we continue to participate actively in Universal Children’s Day. Fiji has ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child and has signed the World Declaration on the Survival, Protection and Development of Children in the 1990s. We have also undertaken a detailed study of the situation of children in Fiji and have identified areas which require our attention. Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 13 We are now in the process of following up the recommendations of this study. Fiji, as a multiracial and multicultural community, attaches great significance to family values and family traditions. We therefore welcome and appreciate the decision by the United Nations to observe 1994 as the International Year of the Family. My Government has already formed a national committee, comprising representatives from both government and non-governmental sectors, to make preparations for observance of the International Year of the Family in a meaningful and practical way. The International Year of the World’s Indigenous People will soon be coming to a close. With the observance of the International Year the attention of the United Nations has for the first time been focused directly and solely on indigenous peoples. Next year, the Commission on Human Rights will assess the activities of the Year. It is important that the voices of indigenous peoples should continue to be heard, and their right to self-determination, their right to rebuild their communities in dignity with freedom of choice, must continue to receive the full support of the United Nations. The draft text of a declaration on indigenous peoples’ rights, first proposed in 1985, received the approval of the Working Group last July. Fiji welcomes the Working Group’s decision as an important step towards a much-needed international instrument on indigenous peoples’ rights. The International Year of the World’s Indigenous People, should not, we believe, be treated as an isolated event, but as the beginning of a long-term policy of supporting, protecting and learning from the world’s indigenous peoples. For our part, we have set aside a special day in our nation’s calendar to commemorate this event, coinciding with the birthday of Ratu Sir Lala Sukuna, one of the great leaders of the indigenous people of Fiji. The indigenous people now comprise the majority of Fiji’s population but my Government recognizes the need and will do its utmost to ensure unity, order, equity and security for all the people of Fiji, so that we can all live in peace and harmony. We will continue to ensure that harmonious relationships are established and maintained both among our own people at home and with other people abroad. With reference to my own region, the South Pacific, we are following very closely the current progress in New Caledonia towards the self-determination of that territory. We hope that the developments, as envisaged under the Matignon and Oudinot accords, will continue so that the indigenous Kanak population will be fully prepared to take part in the referendum in 1998 and to decide on the future political status of their country. Speaking at the session of the General Assembly last year, on 8 October, Fiji’s Prime Minister, Major General Sitiveni Rabuka, promised to initiate a review of the 1990 Constitution of Fiji, which has been the subject of controversy both locally and abroad. I am pleased to say that my Government has already set in train the process for the review of the Constitution, as promised. The review is to consider how the provisions of the Constitution can be improved upon to reflect fully the concerns and interests of Fiji’s multi-ethnic and multicultural society. This Organization, now almost 50 years old, has stood the test of time but, like other institutions, it must also adjust to change. We must continue to examine ways of making it a forum for both discussion and action on the important social, economic and political issues facing the world community as they evolve. In conclusion, I should like to reaffirm my country’s commitment to the United Nations and to the spirit of international cooperation and solidarity that it embodies. My country, and its people, joins with other nations to do its utmost to seek world peace, stability and sustainable development for all. We firmly believe that the United Nations remains the only hope for mankind to achieve peace and prosperity. It is through the combined efforts of all Member States, large and small, that we can develop a global environment which is just and equitable and which reflects the legitimate needs and interests of all peoples. First of all, I take great pleasure in expressing to the President of the General Assembly the sincerest congratulations of the people and the Government of Honduras on his well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. In entrusting this very delicate role to him, the international community is recognizing his personal merits and those of our sister nation of Guyana. We are convinced that with his experience and proven capacity he will conduct the work of this Assembly with great success. My delegation also extends a warm welcome to the new Members of our Organization: the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Eritrea, Andorra and the Principality of Monaco. We do so fully convinced that within the framework of the United Nations we will establish and strengthen strong bonds of friendship and cooperation with them, and that their participation will contribute effectively to the full realization of the principles and purposes enshrined in the United Nations Charter. Pursuant to those same principles, the Republic of Honduras calls, as it did at the previous session of the General Assembly, for greater support and resources to be accorded to the universal organs for the legal settlement of disputes, such as the International Court of Justice, whose rulings contribute to the peaceful settlement of disputes brought before it. We are pleased to state that a year ago Honduras and El Salvador were handed down a ruling by the International Court of Justice on their border dispute; we are now complying with that ruling and the border populations are living in complete harmony. On the question of disarmament, in taking note of the vital discussion of the destructive power of nuclear weapons, we urge the nuclear-weapon States to arrive at sound, verifiable agreements on the reduction and destruction of such weapons and their means of delivery, taking into account the great danger the use of these and other weapons of mass destruction represents for humanity, and ensuring that the growing financial resources released from the arms race are transferred to the needs arising from international cooperation for development. It is only natural that, in activities in the field of general disarmament, priority should have been given to nuclear disarmament, but this must not impede renewed efforts in the field of conventional disarmament, particularly on a regional basis. Honduras has observed with great concern the tragic situation still prevailing in Bosnia and Herzegovina: the escalation of hostilities, massive violations of human rights and attempts to enshrine in legal instruments territorial conquests obtained by aggression. My country therefore unreservedly supports the Security Council’s efforts to protect the displace populations, to provide them with food, medicine and protection, and to 46 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session obtain a cease-fire and a solution to the various problems that stand in the way of restoring peace to the region. In Somalia, there is no national government to ensure that the United Nations intervention in that country will not only mitigate the hunger which unfortunately afflicts its inhabitants but also make it possible, with the full participation of the Somalis, to follow the path to peace, coexistence and the restoration of normalcy. That path of hope has already been taken with great determination in South Africa, and the international community is rejoicing at the end of the last vestiges of apartheid and the beginning of national reconciliation and reconstruction. It was with rekindled hope that the entire world learned of the outcome of the negotiations which, under the inspired mediation of the Government of Norway, led to the recently signed historic agreement on mutual recognition between the State of Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization. This is one more step towards the normalization of good- neighbourly relations in the Middle East with respect to the right to self-determination of peoples. The Honduran Government, which has followed with interest and concern the fierce struggle that for decades has pitted Israelis and Arabs against each other, welcomes this positive development and hopes it will be accompanied by peace agreements between Israel and its Arab neighbours. Similarly, our country has followed with great attention the course of events in Haiti, where we have welcomed the agreement reached between President Jean-Bertrand Aristide and the head of the country’s armed forces, through the mediation of Mr. Dante Caputo, the Special Envoy of the Secretaries-General of the United Nations and the Organization of American States (OAS). The text of this agreement, in addition to contemplating a series of basic provisions for the solution of the crisis, calls for the return of Haiti’s legitimate President, and for compliance with all commitments undertaken both in the United Nations and in the OAS. Our country expresses its resolute support for all measures that may be taken to comply with the timetable established in the Governors Island Agreement, which led to the parliamentary ratification of Prime Minister Robert Malval, which in turn has made it possible to suspend the embargo on Haiti. In Central America, the Tegucigalpa Protocol of 13 December 1991 has entered into force. It adapts the legal framework of the former Organization of Central American States to the new realities of the region by establishing a system of Central American Integration which, acting under the impetus of the regional summits, is strengthening and fostering a new system of economic, social, cultural and political integration for the benefit of all Central Americans. In accordance with this basic objective, my country aspires, with increasing determination and political will, to see our region established as a region of peace, freedom, democracy and development which is more actively involved in the new reordering of the international community. However, in spite of the progress in the regional peace process, many of the root causes of the Central American crisis persist, and the advances that have been made are only a starting-point in confronting the underlying causes of the armed conflict which threaten to destroy all that has been accomplished. Peace and development will be securely established only if a broad and participatory commitment is achieved, involving both the Governments and the organized sectors of civilian society of each of our nations. It is a fact that the difficulties of any one Central American country have an effect on all other countries of the region. Concerted action within a regional framework is therefore necessary, to allow internal processes to be strengthened while fully respecting the particular circumstances of each country. The Government of Honduras therefore appeals to our fellow Central Americans to meet in the near future in order to give a new thrust to coordination of the efforts which benefit from international support and to make it possible for us to view with hope the economic integration now under way. The challenge of establishing peace in Central America requires that we give priority to the geographical areas most affected by poverty. This in turn requires us to promote greater social participation by deepening the process of decentralization through a concept of human development at the local level and expressing that social development in realistic macroeconomic policies which encourage both domestic and foreign investment. In Honduras this year we will be holding our fifth consecutive general election since the restoration of democracy in 1980, and it is our policy to give firm support to the economic integration of the Central American isthmus Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 47 in order to consolidate the results of growth with greater social well-being. A revitalized Central America with sustainable economic growth, while respecting the natural environment and continually acting to rapidly improve the quality of life of its inhabitants, is the best guarantee of permanent security for the region bathed by the Caribbean Sea, within which Central America, in harmony with the principles of the member countries of the 'Community of the Caribbean', can consolidate an era of peace and cooperation by the end of this century. The third Ibero-American summit, held at San Salvador de Bahia, Brazil, examined with concern the subject of development, with emphasis on social development. In so doing, it reaffirmed in that community of nations the commitment to representative democracy, the promotion of the observance and defence of human rights, and the promotion of the economic and social development of our peoples, which are united by language, tradition and by a shared future. To follow up on what was decided in this new forum for cooperation, we Ibero-Americans must strengthen our commitment to the successful convening of the World Summit for Social Development, an initiative of the Chilean Government supported enthusiastically by Honduras, and which we hope will be given a final impetus by this General Assembly. There can be no doubt that all of these attempts to achieve prosperity for our nations must inevitably involve a willingness on the part of the industrialized States to include us in trying to establish an open, multilateral trade system that gives our products greater access to competitive markets so that more and more countries can reach satisfactory levels of growth and trade. Unfortunately, the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations has not yet been concluded, and this is a source of grave concern to the less developed States whose expectations are affected along with the programmes of structural adjustment they are carrying out with great sacrifice, as an effective contribution to a better ordering of the world economy. Protectionist measures imposed by certain States on exports from our region not only cause a decline in the prices of those products but also impede access to international markets, thus helping to plunge our economies into a climate of uncertainty by restricting the possibilities of investment and continued growth. The need to achieve greater global economic stability without regard to the economic and political might of any individual nation should be examined along with the growing convergence of opinions concerning global priorities with regard to the environment; this was demonstrated in a clear and positive way at the Earth Summit held at Rio de Janeiro last year. The deterioration of nature must be avoided. Together we can design preservation strategies that also make it possible to make rational use of our natural resources in order to meet our countries’ requirements for employment needs and economic growth. In Honduras, we have established a Ministry of the Environment charged with designing policies and strategies aimed at creating mechanisms to protect and preserve our ecosystem and its endangered species of flora and fauna. Lastly, as regards the restructuring of the United Nations, Honduras supports the proposal that the Security Council be expanded to include new permanent and non- permanent members so as to reflect the realities of today’s world, allowing for the rotation of membership and an equitable geographical distribution in the composition of the Council. We are also in favour of the revitalization of the United Nations in the economic, social, cultural and related spheres. It is essential that the necessary measures be adopted as soon as possible to strengthen the capacity of those organs concerned in order to discharge the functions conferred upon them by the Charter of the United Nations in the sphere of international cooperation. We welcome the steps that have already been taken to achieve the objectives we have set, but we believe that we need to arrive at a more effective and more economical United Nations system, one which is at the same time less passive in executing the programmes adopted here. The emergence of new conflicts and the persistence of old ones in different parts of the world reconfirm, if such a thing is necessary, the proven wisdom of trying to achieve, as we approach the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, an integral structure of harmonization and peaceful cooperation for the international community. Let us pledge to achieve this with our votes and our actions. Allow me at the outset to express to Ambassador Insanally my special congratulations on his election to preside over the General Assembly at this important session. He represents Guyana, an active member of the Non-Aligned Movement, of which Sudan is proud to be a founding member. May I also extend our thanks and appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev for the skilful and efficient manner in which he conducted the work of the previous session. The United Nations represents hope for all nations and nascent States, especially those that attained their independence through long struggle. It is a great honour and pleasure for me to welcome our sister country, Eritrea, which has joined the membership of the United Nations. Our two peoples continue to enjoy mutual respect and esteem, and our Governments are endeavouring to foster fraternal relations with a view to achieving prosperity for the brotherly peoples of the two countries, and for the whole region. Allow me also to salute the Czech Republic, Slovakia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Monaco and Andorra, which joined the United Nations as part of a new momentum contributing to human endeavours to achieve stability, prosperity and peace for the world. I also salute the Secretary-General , Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who is leading the Secretariat of the United Nations at a crucial stage as it faces many challenges and pressures. The Sudan learned with grief and sadness of the tragic loss of life in the earthquake which struck parts of India. I extend the deepest sympathy of the Sudan to friendly India along with heartfelt condolences to the families of those who lost their lives. Since the previous session, important events have emerged in the international arena. We are now witnessing accelerated political and social change unprecedented in history. New international situations and changes occur every day; we are all trying to keep up with them. Today, we are experiencing a phase of travail and transition, which results every day in new, divergent patterns. The most striking of those patterns is the widening of the gap between the rich North and the less privileged South. The trend in today’s world is towards the machinery of regional groupings. This reflects the fact that the world has already started to be more inclined to think in a more collective manner. We hope that this new pattern will be positive and constructive, giving due respect to the charters and covenants that are binding on all. We seriously assert that developing countries are no longer principal partners in most of the resolutions that are adopted, particularly within the framework of the Security Council and other United Nations organs. Had developing countries been allowed equitable participation, their contribution could have been more effective in the course of many of these important events, specially in the field of regional and international peace and security. Four years ago we started reviewing the functions of the United Nations and its various organs. We must place on record, from this rostrum, our conviction that this Organization has a basic role to play in the maintenance of international peace and security and the achievement of prosperity for mankind. For the United Nations fully to perform such a vital role, its governing Charter must be fully respected. The Charter must also be adhered to by all, and must be updated to keep pace with the developments that have occurred since its adoption. The General Assembly too should be enabled fully to perform its functions for the maintenance of peace and security. The General Assembly should be given its due importance, equal and parallel to that of the Security Council. Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 35 Selectivity in implementing the provisions of the Charter must be abandoned. In this regard, we firmly stress that the activities of the Security Council must be transparent and that the Council should adopt a democratic approach in its decisions. It is thus inevitable that the question of the Council’s permanent membership, and the right of veto, which enables a few States to invalidate the opinion of the majority, be reviewed, especially at a time when the United Nations is advocating the values of democracy, participation, justice and equality. The United Nations and one of its organs, the Security Council, are currently engaged in serious and active attempts to settle disputes based on new prospects for the establishment of regional and international peace and security. Let us pause here for a moment. We all aspire to save the world from the calamities of war and the destructive consequences of the prevailing social and economic situation. Yet, at the same time, we reject double standards in the resolutions of the Security Council, especially in relation to international peace and security. We are anxious lest the United Nations lose its proper vision in the heat of events. The nature of the responsibilities and duties of the Organization requires strict neutrality. International peace and security is a principle that must apply to all. But to see the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina suffer to the brink of elimination because of the shaky and defective resolutions of the Security Council is a situation that should not be allowed to pass unnoticed. Similarly, the Somali people cannot be allowed to remain victims of irregularities committed by the international forces there because of the departure from their binding original mandate. This is a matter that requires both change and a strict and immediate investigation. We are still witnessing the deterioration of the security situation in Somalia owing to the continuing fighting between the international forces and some of the Somali factions, as well as with individuals. This has resulted in many killings and has caused the international forces to stray from their original mandate. We have previously expressed our reservations with regard to the hasty use of international forces in Somalia without consulting the States of the region or exhausting the efforts and endeavours being exerted by those States to find a solution to the Somali crisis. We are concerned that the continuation of fighting between the international forces and some of the Somali factions will shed more blood, complicate the problem and render it insoluble by the United Nations. Therefore, we request the United Nations and the forces that are supposed to operate under its banner to refrain from continuing the type of actions that would provoke the Somali people and the country’s factions or affect the structure of their political future, values and cultural and religious heritage. We also deem it fitting that the Permanent Committee on Somalia of the States of The Horn of Africa be given the necessary time to perform its pioneering function of finding a solution to the Somali crisis. These States are better acquainted with the nature and dimension of the problem by virtue of their special relations with Somalia and its people. We will support new international arrangements that will ensure the enhancement of the performance of the Organization and establish justice and tranquillity among all. The arrangements we are hoping for shall not infringe upon the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States or meddle with their independence or right of decision-making. Preventive diplomacy, associated with peacemaking and peace-keeping, should be motivated by a basic goal, namely, the elimination of regional and international tension. This could be achieved by defining the causes of political and social conflicts in order to eliminate them so that different societies might enjoy stability, well-being, and peace. Preventive diplomacy and the subsequent use of political and military force cannot be applied solely against less privileged countries and vulnerable peoples. In brief, we are hoping for a new formula within the framework of current international arrangements to guarantee the rights of all and to save the world from the hegemony of the stronger over the less privileged. We also aspire to a greater role for the regional organizations of the developing countries and to their representation in the important forum of the Security Council, which is entrusted with the task of maintaining peace and security all over the world. Along with this understanding of the new role of the United Nations in protecting and preserving the rights of States, we call for the lifting of the economic embargo imposed on Iraq. The Iraqi people have suffered for an extended period of time from the unfair embargo that is still imposed on them, despite the exhaustion of the reasons that invoked it. Another example of the misuse of this international Organization is the embargo imposed on Libya without any legal and justified cause to permit the actions taken against that country. Libya has already responded to Security Council resolution 731 (1992) and shown sufficient flexibility to settle its differences with the Western States, a matter that would justify the lifting of the embargo imposed on it. 36 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The agenda items before this session include important issues reflecting the accelerated pace of events I mentioned at the beginning of my statement. However, I prefer to be direct in touching upon issues of immediate concern to us in the Sudan because of the misunderstanding that has accompanied them. During the forty-eighth session of the Human Rights Commission, held at Geneva in March 1992, and upon a motion by the United States representative, the Commission adopted a resolution appointing an independent expert assigned to investigate the human-rights situation in the Sudan and to submit a report to the forty-ninth session of the Commission in March-April 1993. The States sponsoring that resolution did not wish to wait for the report of the independent expert but pushed the matter to the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, where a resolution on the alleged human-rights violations in the Sudan was adopted. The sponsoring States used all the influence, pressure and the mechanical majority they possessed to see that that politically motivated resolution was adopted. In his report to the forty-ninth session of the Commission on Human Rights in March 1993, the independent expert praised the cooperation of the Government of the Sudan and explained that he had had neither the time nor the opportunity to judge the situation of human rights in the Sudan or to study the matter comprehensively. He indicated that the Commission might wish to extend his mission in order to allow him to complete his mandate. While we do not conceive of any justifiable reasons behind his appointment, the Government of the Sudan nevertheless extended every possible cooperation to the Special Rapporteur, who visited the Sudan last week and will submit his report. Respect for and maintenance of human rights represent one of the sacred principles that are enshrined in all divine religions as well as in man-made laws. The Sudan, inspired by its cultural and civilized heritage, pays due attention to the issues of human rights. The Sudanese Government and society respect and observe the human-rights values based on their religious belief and traditions. Accordingly, we reject any politicization or manipulation of such a sacred doctrine as a pretext for meddling in the internal affairs of States or for imposing a specific cultural trend or option of civilization on any State. For the same reason, we are of the view that developmental assistance should not be tied to a distorted human-rights record. The right to development itself represents an inalienable human right. We also opt for equality and fairness in assessing or monitoring the performance of States in the field of human rights. We adamantly reject policies that reflect a double standard in dealing with human rights, because the Sudan has been victimized by such policies. We also hope that universality of human rights will not be construed to justify denial of the cultural, religious and indigenous specifics of various States and peoples. Those who pose as defenders of human rights in the Sudan ignore the terrorist practices of the outlaws in southern Sudan lead by John Garang. They have opted to keep silent with respect to the atrocities he has committed, atrocities such as the abduction and recruitment of children for military operations, the regular killing of civilian populations, the downing of civilian aircraft and the kidnapping and killing of United Nations staff working in relief operations. They have also kept silent with regard to his continued obstruction of all serious peacemaking endeavours initiated inside or outside the Sudan. Not only that, they have received him as a top official dignitary and extended to him every moral support, despite his gross violation of human rights. In this connection we view General Assembly resolution 47/142 as a biased resolution that has contributed to the intransigence of the Garang movement and motivated it to reject all Government endeavours to achieve a peaceful settlement through negotiations. We are also convinced that that resolution lacks any substantive justification, and we stand ready to provide all the factual information on the human-rights situation in the Sudan to all who are interested. Those who accuse the Government of the Sudan of violating the human rights of its own citizens have also ignored the giant achievements of the Government, such as adopting the conferences system along the lines of Shura and organizing the national conferences to determine the structure of the political system in order to lay down the basic foundations of national unity and to look for ways and means to achieve a real peace guaranteeing fundamental political, social, cultural and religious rights for all citizens. As a result, a National Transitional Assembly was established as the supreme legislative organ of the country, pending completion of the political structures at both the federal and the state level and the conduct of the presidential elections to be held in the country at a subsequent stage. Many must have learned of the recent decision of the United States Government to add the Sudan to its own classification of countries allegedly sponsoring terrorism. While the United States Government is free to take whatever decision it deems appropriate, we have the right to question the facts and findings on which the United States Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 37 Government has based its decision. While the United States has the right to enact domestic decisions, the utilization of such decisions as a prelude to further actions beyond its territories contradicts international law and the United Nations Charter. We cannot understand how a super-Power which enjoys permanent membership in the Security Council can enact domestic legislation to justify the pursuit of its private interests in the territories of other countries. Such instances are numerous, the most recent of which was the search in the port of Djibouti of a vessel freighting sugar en route to sisterly Somalia. It is our conviction that the motive behind the media campaign against the Sudan is the alienation of Sudan from its African and Arab affiliations and the smearing of its image by erroneously labelling its civilization as terrorist. This media campaign constitutes a prelude to a siege on Sudan similar to what has happened to some other countries. We are known to all as a peaceful nation; we denounce terrorism in all its forms. Accordingly, the decision lacks the necessary legal support, contravenes justice and good conscience and clearly exceeds the role of the United Nations. As proof of our assertion, it could not generate any support. Former President Jimmy Carter and a number of credible institutions and newspapers have expressed their scepticism and criticism regarding its ethical value. Likewise, the Sudanese peoples have demonstrated their rejection and denunciation of that decision. Real terrorism is when a single super-Power uses it as a pretext and utilizes its might to terrorize small developing countries for no reason except that they opted for a path of independent decision-making and rejected blind proselytism, or merely for their different views. Mixing politics with humanitarian assistance is rather risky, especially in relief work, which is a sensitive matter, as it directly affects human survival through supplying basic needs such as food and medicine. This necessitates the absolute neutrality of the relief donors. Recent years have witnessed an increasing involvement of politics in humanitarian work, which fact led Mr. Cornelio Sommaruga, President of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) to explicitly warn against the danger of mixing politics with humanitarian work. Sudan has suffered tremendously from these attempts to tarnish its image by intentionally distorting its achievements in relief delivery so that they are seen as failures, its initiatives depicted as obstructions and its cooperation as impediment of the inflow of relief supplies. The reality is that we feel we are unjustly treated by some States and some media that tend to undermine our efforts in relief operation and blemish our reputation. However, Sudan has a bright and outstanding record in this area. Operation Lifeline Sudan is an unprecedented initiative; it has enabled the United Nations and non-governmental organizations to provide relief supplies to affected populations, whoever and wherever they are. Since the forty-seventh session, continuous efforts have been made to strengthen the efficiency of Operation Lifeline and its relief programme, such as the signing of an agreement between the Government of the Sudan, the United Nations and the rebel factions in December 1992 to secure the flow of relief to all areas in need. In January 1993, another agreement was signed between the Government of the Sudan, the United Nations and the non-governmental organizations to facilitate and enhance the role of the non- governmental organizations in relief and rehabilitation. In March 1993, the Government of the Sudan signed a memorandum of understanding with the International Committee of the Red Cross to streamline the cooperation between the Government and the Committee and to strengthen the effectiveness of its operations in southern Sudan. The allocation of 153,000 metric tons of grain by the Government to the World Food Programme to be distributed to the population in need represents a cornerstone of our contribution to relief efforts. The mission of Mr. Vieri Traxler, Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs for the Sudan, and its positive outcome, stand as another example of the cooperation of the Government of the Sudan with the international community. A number of modalities were agreed upon during that mission to guarantee the full implementation of all previously signed agreements. It is my pleasure to convey to this Assembly that during Mr. Traxler’s mission to the Sudan a number of steps were taken to implement what was agreed upon. On the initiative of the Government of the Sudan, an agreement was reached to send joint assessment missions, constituted by the United Nations and the non-governmental organizations working in relief operations, to about 30 safe locations in the three Southern States, the Nuba mountains and Kordofan. It was also agreed that the town of Malakal and its environs would be considered a model of relief integrated programmes to be implemented in other areas after proving successful. This is in addition to other steps oriented towards strengthening the efficiency of operations and ensuring relief for those in need wherever they may be. Allow me to acquaint this Assembly with the achievements of the Government of Sudan in political, economic and social fields. The priority item on my Government’s agenda is to attain a just and lasting peace in southern Sudan and to put an end to the war that horrified 38 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session innocent civilians and devastated their lives, the war that exposed them to the scourges of death, famine, disease and displacement. This war, which was the by-product of the colonial conspiracy, has turned the citizens into recipients of relief and made them dependent on others. It constitutes a perpetual squandering of vast resources that could have been utilized in economic and social development and for the welfare of the Sudanese peoples in the south and the north. Faithful to its earnest endeavours to bring about a peaceful settlement of the discord in the south, the Sudanese Government has emphasized since 1989 its readiness to talk peace with the rebels without preconditions. The Government put forward a comprehensive framework for peace emanating from the recommendations of a national conference. This approach is based on remedying the lingering causes of the conflict in the areas of power- and wealth-sharing, relations between religion and State, adoption of the federal system of government to meet the aspirations of different regions for a genuine sharing of power, the exemption of the south from the application of Sharia laws and the redistribution and reallocation of resources for social and economic development on equitable grounds. In this positive spirit the Government held several rounds of negotiations with the rebel movement. The last meeting took place in Abuja with the mediation of sisterly Nigeria. The Government, out of its keen desire to bring the peace talks to a successful conclusion, showed great flexibility, but it realized, unfortunately, that, owing to the pressures of foreign interests, Garang’s faction was not the master of its decision. That was why we could not reach an agreement in order to alleviate the suffering of our citizens in the south. The failure of the second Abuja peace talks did not, however, weaken the determination of the Government to continue searching for peace through negotiations. To this end, the Government started a new round of negotiations, this time in Sudanese territory, with the other united rebel factions. The Government also accepted a quadrilateral peace initiative put forward by four Heads of State members of the Intergovernmental Authority for Drought and Development (IGADD): Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia and Eritrea. We believe that neighbouring countries are able and keen to help in resolving this stalemate. Furthermore, the Government accepted the initiative of former President Jimmy Carter in mediating between the Government and the rebel factions. In the area of economic development, the Government of the Sudan adopted an ambitious three-year economic programme for the implementation of far-reaching reforms in the structure of the Sudanese economy by engaging in a free-market policy, diminishing the role of the Government in trade and economic activities, and giving the private sector its due catalytic role in these activities. Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 39 Economic and monetary regulations were enacted to encourage investment, especially in agriculture and animal products. This economic programme reaped its fruits, and we have registered an increase of over 10 per cent in the rate of growth of the gross national product, as well as self- sufficiency in grain and sugar. This programme energized the economy and led to the inflow of foreign investment, owing to the free-market policy, the reform of the infrastructure and the building up of the capacity of human resources. All these developments could have achieved positive results, not for the benefit of the Sudanese people alone, but also for the African and Arab regions, had they not been forestalled by political machinations in areas of international trade and economic cooperation, as well as interference in the work of the international monetary institutions. An unjust and undeclared economic embargo deprived the Sudan of development resources from bilateral and multilateral institutions. This unjust behaviour deprived the people of the Sudan of their right to development, a right enshrined in all international conventions. In the social field, the Government is very attentive to the needs of the impoverished sector of the population. Financial support is increasingly extended to them through Zakat funds and social-welfare institutions. A number of commercial subsidies were introduced to alleviate the economic burden of a broad sector of the population. Salaries in the public and private sectors were increased and subjected to continuous revision. All this was done in full compliance with and respect for human dignity, and to eliminate poverty. Moreover, in the area of legislation, the Government excluded the States with non-Muslim majorities from being subjected to Sharia laws. In the area of human rights, a Supreme Council for Human Rights was established, under the chairmanship of the second-highest ranking official in the State. Security prevails throughout the country, the rule of law has replaced chaos, and there have been other great accomplishments in the fields of education, literacy, health, environment, and the improvement of the living conditions of displaced persons and their relocation to ensure a dignified life while they await the elimination of the conditions that forced them to become displaced persons. The position of Sudan has remained clear ever since the commencement of the Arab-Israeli peace talks: we believe that they should lead to the exercise of Arab and Palestinian rights based on the provisions of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978). Since the signing of the Declaration of Principles of self-autonomy between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel, the Middle East and the Palestinians’ cause have entered a new phase. The Arab League Council of Ministers, after its 100th meeting in Cairo, issued a communiqué on this agreement based on Security Council resolutions. The communiqué emphasized the necessity of an Israeli withdrawal from all the occupied Arab territories in the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, Jerusalem, the Golan Heights and southern Lebanon so as to open a new page in the history of the Middle East and enable the people of the region to work for development and prosperity. The Arab League Council considered the agreement a step forward towards the establishment of a comprehensive peace in the region, provided that other steps to complement it were guaranteed such as a complete Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Syrian Golan Heights, the West Bank, including Jerusalem, and the territory in southern Lebanon. The Arab world has articulated its judgement on this historic agreement and proved its sincerity about desiring a just, lasting and comprehensive settlement in the region. At this critical point in time, we appeal to our Palestinian brothers to consolidate their unity and unify their determinant objectives. They should close the doors against any attempts to divide them. The United Nations is called upon to supervise this peace plan by insisting on the implementation of all its resolutions based on international legitimacy. The custodians of this peace plan are also called upon to ensure an expeditious Israeli withdrawal from all the occupied Arab and Palestinian territories, in full compliance with the relevant United Nations resolutions. The positive developments taking place in South Africa as a result of the struggle of our brothers and sisters there in their quest for emancipation, equality and the rule of the majority stand as proof of the important role the United Nations can play in accordance with the principles of the Charter whenever a Member State shows the necessary political will. My delegation associates itself with the leader Nelson Mandela in his call upon the international Organization to secure the transitional arrangements leading to the emergence of a democratic, unified and non-racial South Africa. As an African country, we believe that Africa has demonstrated throughout history its unique ability to resolve African disputes through African mediation. In this regard, I salute the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the 40 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Intergovernmental Authority on Drought and Desertification (IGADD), the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and all other African subregional organizations, as well as various African States that have played leading roles in the peaceful settlement of several disputes in such countries as Rwanda and Liberia, thus contributing to peace and stability in Africa. We hope that peace will soon prevail in Angola, Mozambique and Somalia so that Africa can enjoy the stability that will enable it to meet the challenges of construction and development and move towards prosperity for the African people and people of the whole world. I should like to begin my statement by expressing my most sincere condolences to the victims of the terrible disaster which has taken place in India and to the Indian population. Please allow me first of all to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to your important office. I know that your many years of experience as your country’s Permanent Representative at the United Nations and your universally admired expertise will greatly enhance the deliberations of this body. Since the Gulf War the United Nations - whether in mediating among warring factions or in saving lives in war-torn areas - has been more than ever at the centre of world politics, with its tireless struggle for sustainable development, its daily fight to protect human rights and its active peace-keeping. In Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the international community has a United Nations Secretary-General committed to the difficult task of adapting the Organization to a much-altered world political climate and of strengthening it to face the new challenges ahead. I have great respect for his incisive judgement and tireless service which provided us with his visionary report 'An Agenda for Peace'. The Secretary-General’s first official visit to Austria last June gave us an opportunity to discuss the most pressing challenges facing the United Nations in the post-communist era. They have special importance for Vienna as one of the three official seats of the Organization. We would like to see an Organization whose structure, management and financing enable it to fulfil the responsibilities entrusted to it in the Charter. In this context we have taken note with satisfaction of the Secretary-General’s assurance to strengthen the United Nations Office at Vienna. One of the United Nation’s most important tasks is to safeguard human rights. The Organization’s international efforts in this area have saved human lives, brought about the release of prisoners, prevented torture, helped to locate missing persons, promoted health and literacy programmes and safeguarded the rights of displaced persons and refugees. In June this year my country had the honour to host thousands of delegates and representatives of non-governmental organizations in Vienna at one of the most significant events in this field: the World Conference on Human Rights. I should like to take this opportunity to thank once again all participants for their constructive cooperation and 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session commitment and for their valuable support they gave me as President of the Conference. It was the active collaboration of the participating States and the effective support of the United Nations Secretariat, under the Assistant Secretary-General Fall, that made the Conference such a resounding success, one that would not have been possible without the committed participation of the non-governmental organizations, which sent more than 2,700 representatives to the World Conference. Never before have so many human-rights organizations been involved to such an extent, at all levels, in the events of such a major international Conference as was the case at Vienna. With the final document of the Conference, the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, the international community has adopted a document of major significance. It is a forward-looking, action-based platform, which not only strengthens basic principles but also represents an important advance in the protection of human rights - all human rights - world wide. The document affirms the universal character of human rights and the principle that the protection of human rights is a legitimate concern not only of individuals and States but also of the entire international community. It establishes a link between human rights, democracy and development and underscores the special responsibility of States to take concerted measures to protect particularly vulnerable groups in society. It calls for a strengthening of the United Nations Human Rights Centre and for increasing its resources so that it can effectively meet rising demands. When the report of the World Conference comes up for discussion before the General Assembly in the weeks ahead, we must do more than complacently acknowledge its accomplishments. The results of the World Conference should be translated into concrete action in all areas, from the rights of women and children to the integration of the handicapped, the plight of indigenous peoples and the rights of minorities to the right to development. Such new elements as a High Commissioner for Human Rights or a Decade for Human Rights must also be among the decisions of this session of the General Assembly. Without underemphasizing other elements of the Conference’s outcome, I note that the recommendation to create an office of High Commissioner for Human Rights has been highlighted by some eminent speakers, among them United States President Clinton, the Foreign Minister of the Russian Federation, Mr. Kozyrev, and the Norwegian Prime Minister, Mrs. Brundtland. Around the world, we are coming to realize that active protection of minorities is an elementary part of the political and social stability of the countries in which they live, an insurance against regional conflicts. In this spirit, the States meeting at Vienna reaffirmed their commitment to the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities, adopted at the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. As a major media event, the Conference also contributed greatly to sensitizing the public around the world to the issue of human rights. In Vienna the human dimension - or, as the United Nations Secretary-General so fittingly called it, the 'irreducible human element' - found a firm place on the international political agenda. This has given rise to great expectation among our citizenry and in all of us. It is incumbent upon the members of the international community to keep the promises made in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, for, in the end, the success of the Vienna Human Rights Conference will be measured by whether it was able to reverse the general trend and build communities which provide the individual with a decent human existence complete with civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights. We have here goals that will have a global impact on the evolution of humanity, even if their implementation is only in the incipient stage. In the past 12 months the situation in the Balkans has deteriorated dramatically. The tireless efforts of the Secretary-General and the peace mediators in Geneva have not yet been able to end the fighting or bring about concrete prospects for a just and peaceful solution in keeping with the values enshrined in the United Nations Charter and in the November 1990 Paris Charter. Despite tremendous achievements by the High Commissioner for Refugees and other humanitarian organizations, and the many thousands of troops in the service of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR), the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina continues to claim thousands of lives. Thus far over 200,000 people have been killed, and another 2 million have been driven from their homes or forced to flee. Entire towns and districts lie in ruins. Several cities have been declared safe areas by the United Nations, but life within them has still not returned to normal. Although the violation of the independence and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and of human rights by the Serbian side, was condemned by the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) as early as April of last year, and 'ethnic cleansing' has come under the harshest criticism in the world community, there has still been no progress in halting that abominable practice. The most serious violations of human rights continue to be the order of the day. In the meantime, there is already evidence Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 9 that the cruel methods used by the aggressor have been emulated by the victims. Austria has condemned this criminal behaviour in the strongest terms and will tirelessly continue to demand that it cease, no matter where it takes place or who its victims are. Fundamental principles of international order, as they were precisely defined and affirmed at the London Conference in August last year, continue to be grossly disregarded. Specific resolutions, such as the monitoring of frontiers between Bosnia and Serbia or the return of refugees, have still not been implemented. The arms embargo decreed by the Security Council in September 1991 has done nothing but hurt the victims of aggression. As a result, the legitimate Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina is in effect being hindered from fully exercising its right to self-defence, under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, without being afforded adequate protection within the framework of a collective security system. Against this backdrop, the proposed peace plans under discussion at the negotiations in Geneva raise a number of fundamental issues. In tenor, they all call for recognizing a status quo established by the use of violence and against all principles and declarations. This fact makes the spread or prolongation of the conflict likely. There is even the danger that Bosnia and Herzegovina, a State Member of the United Nations, will be divided up in a move sanctioned - even encouraged - by the international community. This would lend formal legitimacy to advantages gained by force. The most recently proposed partition plan for the country would seriously undercut its sovereignty by eliminating any effective central authority, in flagrant contradiction of the Security Council’s renewed expression of support for the sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 24 August this year. This continuing violation of international law, human rights and humanitarian law puts fundamental principles of international conduct in jeopardy while seriously undermining the reputation of the international organizations involved. The failure of the system of collective security is especially alarming in this regard. The same can be said for the situation in Croatia. Over a fourth of the country remains in the hands of the aggressor, contrary to the Cyrus Vance plan of January 1992, which was endorsed by the Security Council. Neither the demilitarization of these areas to be monitored by United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) troops, nor the return of the civilian populations that have been expelled, has yet been realized. Just a few weeks ago the capital of Croatia was shelled by ground-to-ground missiles fired from areas ostensibly under UNPROFOR protection. Currently overshadowed by the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the situation in Kosovo remains tense. A rational solution is nowhere in sight. If anything, the likelihood of an outbreak of violence has increased in recent days. The expulsion of the long-term missions of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) in July of this year could well lay the groundwork for even more brutal actions by Serbia against the Albanian population. All in all, we are confronted with a situation in which Serbia appears increasingly to be exercising the power of an occupier in a region whose population is almost 90 per cent Albanian and which for decades has enjoyed complete autonomy. Austria stands fully behind the efforts of the international community to bring the Kosovo crisis under control. In the end, a lasting peaceful solution to the Balkans problem is inconceivable without a just and equitable solution for Kosovo and for minorities in other regions. Austria is focusing its efforts on providing humanitarian relief. Since the outbreak of the conflict, this relief has been handled primarily by the large-scale private charity appeal 'Neighbours in Need', which provides on-site aid for the needy. Several other European countries are also involved in its activities. The Secretary-General’s recent words of praise for its services are sure to inspire its organizers to even greater efforts. Austria, with a population of just 7 million, is also caring for the needs of over 70,000 refugees on its own territory. Though the recent course of events in the former Yugoslavia gives us little cause for optimism, the latest developments in the Middle East fill us with renewed hope. After a period of stagnation, the peace process begun in Madrid in 1991 has been given a vital new impetus with the recent agreement, on 13 September, between Israel and the PLO in Washington. However, the limited powers of self-government for the partitioned areas now agreed to are only an initial step. The ultimate goal must be to achieve full rights of self-determination for the Palestinians as part of a final settlement based on the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and other bodies of the Organization. The pressing task now is to improve the difficult living conditions in the occupied territories through generous economic and financial aid from the world community. Austria, which has always been committed to a peaceful settlement in the Middle East, will maintain its support for this cause by actively participating in the international 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session assistance measures now being planned. As part of the multilateral negotiations, Austria will seek further ways to make significant contributions in the areas of water and energy resources. Nevertheless, a lasting peace in the region will only be achieved when Israel and the Arab countries conclude treaties based on the principles of land for peace, security and regional cooperation. From this standpoint, the agreement between Israel and Jordan on a framework agreement for peace is an encouraging sign, portending further progress, we hope, in the bilateral negotiations between Israel and Syria and Israel and Lebanon in the very near future. We very much welcome the remarkable success of the United Nations operation in Cambodia. The two co-Presidents of the Conference - France and Indonesia - Japan and Australia, as well as the permanent members of the Security Council, have made an invaluable contribution to the peace process. We also particularly congratulate the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Mr. Akashi, and his colleagues, who have assured the success of the operation in the transitional phase. Last year I was pleased to announce in the General Assembly the official end to the dispute between Austria and Italy regarding the treatment of the German-speaking and Ladin population of South Tyrol, a topic which was the subject of United Nations resolutions 1497 (XV) and 1661 (XVI) and which had been pending before this international body since 1960. A year later I can say that the autonomy established for the German-speaking and Ladin population of South Tyrol appears to be effective in safeguarding the ethnic identity and the economic, social and cultural development of these ethnic groups, though certain problems remain unresolved and new problems have arisen from the dynamics of evolution. The settlement of this dispute in June last year has helped to reduce tensions between the various ethnic groups. Even with this dispute settled, Austria would like to express its direct interest in helping solve new problems related to matters involving South Tyrol. Given the new spirit in Austrian-Italian relations since the settlement of this dispute, I am confident we will be able to solve any matters relating to autonomy in a manner agreeable to all parties involved. The East-West confrontation has now been replaced by an array of regional armed conflicts. There is an increasing need for United Nations peace-keeping operations and increasing demands are being placed on them. This trend has accelerated in the past 12 months: almost 80,000 soldiers, police, military observers and civilian experts from 75 countries are now involved in the 17 United Nations peace missions around the world. In 1992 the costs for these United Nations missions soared to $2.1 billion - twice the regular United Nations budget - pushing the Organization to its limits under the current financing arrangement. New approaches must be found to finance these United Nations actions. The Volcker-Ogata report, 'Financing an Effective United Nations', points to financing options which could serve as a valuable basis for the work of the Fifth Committee. The most urgent challenges facing the United Nations today are to develop global collective peace-keeping efforts and to overcome the financial crisis. In his 'Agenda for Peace: Preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-keeping', the Secretary-General outlines possible approaches to active peace management by the United Nations. It is now up to the Member States to give the Secretary-General the resources he needs to carry out his ambitious plans. It is obvious that more security requires greater solidarity and increased contributions, whether in the form of troops or of higher membership payments. Given the current back payments still due, the first priority must be to motivate late payers to send in their contributions on time. Austria takes its obligations very seriously and is proud of having always fulfilled them on time. The increasing consensus within the Security Council and its new decision-making capability have contributed to the quantitative and qualitative expansion of peace-keeping operations and to an increasing variety of needs by the community of nations for troops, officers, civilian police and civilian experts. The purpose of the large-scale international manoeuvres called 'Exercise 93', recently conducted by the United Nations in Austria with great success, was to achieve the optimum management and coordination of military and civilian organizations in responding to disasters. As things stand now, election assistance and monitoring, the protection of human rights, disaster assistance, reconstruction aid, humanitarian relief and tasks of a similar nature are already considered integral parts of the new United Nations peace operations, to be put into effect as soon as hostilities cease. Austria heartily welcomes this new development, having itself sent troops, military observers, police or Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 11 civilian experts to 12 of the 21 new United Nations operations since 1988. In keeping with the Secretary-General’s 'Agenda for Peace', the Austrian Federal Government decided on 25 May of this year to lay the necessary groundwork on a national level to put Austrian participation in United Nations peace operations on a new legal footing. We will now be able to comply more quickly and efficiently with future requests by the United Nations and regional organizations and with the military, police and civilian requirements they entail. To be more specific, there will be an initial phase for the setting up of a disaster relief service, a mechanism for seconding staff to the United Nations Secretariat, a staff course for high-level officers, police actions and humanitarian and disaster relief. Austria is especially interested in the civilian components of peace-keeping operations. To this end, a training centre for civilian peace-keeping and peace-building has been set up in Schlaining, Burgenland, with the support of the Federal Government. In September of this year the first fellowship programme devoted to 'peace-making and preventive diplomacy' was held there, a programme organized by the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR); it was impressive in the quality of both its speakers and its participants. The successful International Peace Academy seminars on conflict resolution should also be mentioned in this regard. In cooperation with the United Nations, national and international experts will be trained in Schlaining in the civilian responsibilities of the United Nations peace operations. Special emphasis will be placed on the following tasks: sustainable development, the protection of human rights and the rights of national and ethnic minorities, humanitarian relief and the development of democracy. In this age of interdependence, our efforts to secure peace globally and collectively cannot be limited to peace-keeping operations; they must also include economic and social developments. Hunger, underdevelopment, pollution, crime, drug abuse and refugee flows all pose equally serious threats to global stability and thus to world peace. The increasingly global nature of these dangers requires concerted international cooperation. The United Nations is the ideal forum to engage in the quest for sustainable development, that is, development which is compatible with ecological and social concerns. After all, the United Nations mandate covers the full range of human experience: political, economic, social and cultural. The 'Agenda for the People', as Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali so fittingly called it, is in fact the true challenge facing the United Nations as the twentieth century draws to a close. Large conferences such as those in Rio, Vienna, Cairo, Beijing and Copenhagen should give global answers to global issues. And no matter what the event - be it the Earth Summit, the Conference on Human Rights, the Conference on Population and Development, the Conference on Women or the World Social Conference - the focus should always be on the individual human being and his or her development and membership in the community. In his declaration of principle before this year’s session of the Economic and Social Council, the Secretary-General underscored the historic opportunity which the simultaneous structural reform and redefinition of United Nations policy offer for the United Nations Member States. The crucial test for the new United Nations will be the implementation of this 'Agenda for the People'. Since PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat shook hands with the Israeli Prime Minister on the White House lawn, nothing seems impossible any more. The end of the cold war has opened opportunities to set aside some of the most intractable, destructive and polarizing conflicts of our time. Apartheid is coming to an end in South Africa. Eastern Europe is free. Russia and the other States of the former Soviet Union are shaking off the stifling effects of more than 70 years of communism. Germany has been peacefully reunited. In Asia, Cambodia is moving towards national reconciliation after almost 20 years of war. Viet Nam and Laos are reintegrating themselves into the South-East Asian community. China and Taiwan held direct informal talks in Singapore and Beijing this year. They will continue their own dialogue at their own pace. They should be encouraged to build confidence by working together, as they already have in the Asian Development Bank and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC) and as they hope to do in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Change has its own dynamic. And not all changes are benign. The post-cold-war problems are legion and well known. It will be a challenge for the United Nations to respond. In recent years, there has been a marked expansion in the number and scope of the operations and activities authorized by the Security Council. Established procedures, such as the Security Council- mandated Commission that has demarcated the boundary between Iraq and Kuwait, have made and will continue to make positive contributions to stabilizing the post-cold-war world, providing authoritative reference points. United Nations specialized agencies, such as the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), are playing an important role in holding renegade countries like North Korea to internationally accepted standards of conduct in the critical area of nuclear non-proliferation. The international community must continue to support such tried and tested measures and organizations. But there is also an expectation that the end of the cold war will enable the Security Council to play more ambitious roles and at last assume 'primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security' under Chapters V and VII of the Charter. In Cambodia, Haiti and Somalia, among other places, the United Nations is breaking new ground by actively interposing itself as a vital stabilizing actor in situations which would once have been considered essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of States. The legal, diplomatic and political implications of these developments are still unfolding and are not yet fully understood. Not everyone is entirely comfortable with them. But I believe that most Member States regard the trend as generally positive and as making for a more secure world. The majority wants a more active and effective Security Council. The Secretary-General’s report on the question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council, submitted in accordance with General Assembly resolution 47/62, has thus occasioned great interest. There is wide consensus that if it is to be effective in the next century the Security Council cannot simply extrapolate its mandate from the starting-point of 1945 after the cold-war interregnum, but must accurately reflect the current configuration of global power. International order cannot be built on nostalgia. Too great a disjuncture from reality will doom the Security Council to eventual irrelevance. As membership of the United Nations expands, there is also a general expectation that the Security Council should become more representative of the Organization as a whole. The composition of the Security Council is a compromise between the principle of the sovereign equality of States and the realities of power politics. That all States are equal but that some, for better or for worse, have a disproportionate influence on the international order is a fact of life. Great-Power leadership is vital. It is a reality. Recognition of the special status of great Powers is thus a requisite for effective action by the Security Council. When it comes to the crunch, only the great Powers can make a decisive difference. But the temper of our times also demands that if action is to command a general consensus: the great must seek the mandate of the many. Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993 17 The issue is, however, more easily defined than resolved. The only previous increase in the size of the Security Council began in the 1956 session of the General Assembly with discussions on an increase of non-permanent seats. Agreement was reached only in 1963 and came into force two years later, almost a decade after the process had begun. The lapse of time shows the complexities involved. The difficulties are still with us. To be sure, there are established principles laid down in Article 23 (1) of the Charter to guide the way to a possible further expansion of non-permanent seats. But there are no such guidelines for the more crucial question of an increase in permanent members. The Secretary-General’s report must therefore be realistically considered as only the beginning of a long process of debate whose outcome cannot be confidently predicted at this point. There are two basic problems. The first is simply to decide what is the current configuration of international power that should be reflected in the distribution of permanent seats. This is not as straightforward as it may seem. When the Charter was being drafted, the end of the Second World War, with easily discernible winners and losers, was in sight and was being prepared for. The intention was for the winners to have primary responsibility for guiding the new international order. Yet even then, two of the 'Big Three' victors, the Soviet Union and the United Kingdom, were sceptical of Roosevelt’s view of China’s ability to play a major role in the post-war world. Churchill’s insistence on including France among the elite group was met with similar scepticism by Roosevelt and Stalin. It will be even more difficult to decide who belongs to the new elite. The end of the cold war took everyone by surprise and was far from clear-cut in its resolution. Economic, political and military power no longer necessarily cohere in one single locus. The United States is victor, but its economic recovery is slow and its competitiveness blunted. Russia is in serious economic and political difficulties but, because it has nuclear weapons, it remains a military great Power exercising a commanding influence on its former dominions, where the threat of chaos in the post-cold-war world is also greatest. Japan and Germany are clearly world economic powerhouses, but both lack an internal and regional consensus on the use of military forces beyond their borders. The second problem is even more fundamental and vexing. The United Nations is an international Organization. It is not and was never intended to be a supranational organization. The United Nations was created by sovereign States and can do nothing without their assent, in which process the permanent members have a more than proportionate say through their veto. I state this without rancour as a fact well known to all. Any design for enhancing the effectiveness of the Security Council therefore cannot just be based on abstract wisdom concerning the requisites of the international order. No plan that has any prospect of succeeding can avoid reckoning with calculations of the national advantage of the current permanent members. But if the new Security Council is really to reflect the current international distribution of power, the process should logically entail the deposition of some from the elite as well as the anointment of others. Even if some were to be elevated without necessarily displacing others, the expansion of the small group of the select would imply the relative diminution of the status of the current permanent members. It is not surprising, therefore, that only one permanent member has so far come out unambiguously in favour of an expansion in the number of permanent seats. It does not take a cynic to wonder whether it was emboldened to do so because the others have been so conspicuously coy on this critical point. No country has ever voluntarily relinquished privilege and power. We are after all in the company of sovereign States, not saints. There is no circumventing the veto. There is no constitutional means of amending the Charter without the assent of all the permanent members, some of whom may believe they stand to lose by it. Yet change is imperative if we are not to squander the opportunity afforded by the end of the cold war - more so for small States that have few better choices than an effective United Nations for their security. To make progress, there is no alternative but gradually to shape a consensus through a patient process of debate and discussion. To force the pace or attempt to impose a majority agreement will not work. At this preliminary stage, it would be most useful to try to identify and build consensus on objective general criteria that all permanent members, present or aspiring, must fulfil. This is a more clinical and constructive approach than engaging in a horse race or a beauty contest to pick specific countries. To attempt to do so at this stage is premature and would only be divisive. But the identification of objective criteria will set a common standard and, if we can agree on them, a consensus on specific countries will naturally emerge. This will entail thinking through the role of the United Nations into the next century. What challenges will the 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session United Nations face in the next decade? What will be the role and priorities of a new Security Council under these conditions? What capabilities will it need? These difficult questions demand the most exhaustive possible examination. The General Assembly should consider the formation of a working group, representative of the whole membership, to consider them and formulate agreed objective criteria for the expansion of the Security Council, especially its permanent membership. To stimulate discussion, Singapore suggests the following: First, there should be a level playing field with regard to all present and future members of a possible expanded Security Council. Anachronistic references to 'enemy States' in Articles 53, 77 and 107 of the Charter should be removed. It is time to set aside the baggage of the past. Suggestions that there could be or should be a different set of permanent members without the veto are also impractical. No country that is capable of making a contribution as a new permanent member will accept such second-class status for long. It will only undermine the principle of great-Power cooperation, in the absence of which the Security Council cannot function. Nor is it practical or even desirable to do away with the veto. The fact that the veto has been abused does not detract from its intended function. It is a recognition of the hard reality that great Powers will not consent to put their power at the disposal of a sheer majority for the implementation of decisions which they do not agree with. It is a safety valve that prevents the United Nations from undertaking commitments that it lacks the power to fulfil. However, to minimize the misuse of the veto, if permanent membership is expanded at least two vetoes should be required to block a resolution. Secondly, privilege must be paid for. An expanded role for the Security Council will require more resources. A United Nations perennially on the brink of financial insolvency cannot effectively meet the challenges of the next century. A permanent member should therefore carry a larger portion of the financial burden of the United Nations. Each permanent member should pay at least 9 per cent of the operating expenses of the United Nations as well as 11 per cent of the costs of the peace-keeping operations of the United Nations, which are the average percentages of the permanent five’s current collective percentage of these budgets. Thirdly, permanent members must have muscle and the will and the capability to wield it for the cause of the United Nations. The main mission and primary responsibility of the Security Council is to maintain international peace and stability. Force will be needed in pursuit of order and the Security Council cannot be effective without a sword that is sharp and ready. All permanent members should be prepared to give effect to Article 43 of the Charter and be ready to place their military forces at the disposal of the United Nations and shed blood to uphold international order if necessary. This list is by no means exhaustive. Other members will have their own suggestions for appropriate criteria. I urge all members to participate in discussions on the expansion of the Security Council so that we may have the benefit of the fullest possible range of views and emerge with the widest possible consensus. Finally, Mr. President, I should like to congratulate you on your unanimous election. I am confident that you will lead the Assembly at this session effectively. I should also like to take this opportunity to welcome the six new Members that have joined the Organization. I am certain that they will contribute positively to the work of the United Nations. Allow me to begin by congratulating you, Your Excellency Ambassador Samuel Insanally of the Republic of Guyana, upon your election to the presidency of the General Assembly for this forty-eighth session. Your well-known diplomatic skills and your country’s long-established positions of principle augur well for the successful conduct of the work of this session. I also wish to pay tribute to His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria for the able manner in which he steered the work of the Assembly during a particularly challenging forty-seventh session. May I also take this opportunity to say a special word of congratulations to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, on his outstanding stewardship of the United Nations during these critical times, when the world body is increasingly being called upon to respond promptly and effectively to complex situations all over the world. As the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization approaches, there is great merit in our taking stock of what the United Nations has achieved in the maintenance of peace and security and in fostering international cooperation for development. It is also our duty at this session to explore ways and means of further strengthening this body so that it is better equipped to fulfil its purposes and principles as enshrined in the Charter. The admission of new States to the community of nations upholds the principle of universality that we so much cherish. In this connection, it is important for us to take note of and applaud the historic agreement that has been signed by Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, which heralds a period of peace after more than four decades of bitter and destructive fighting. It is our hope that one day the State of Palestine will earn its deserved place as a Member of this Organization. We would, at the same time, like to pay tribute to those countries and organizations that were instrumental in bringing the negotiations to a fruitful conclusion. The fact that the membership of this Organization has increased dramatically to 184 surely suggests an urgent need to restructure it so that it serves the world community better in the vastly changed circumstances. The end of the cold- war era has finally placed the United Nations at centre stage of international affairs for the maintenance of peace and security and the strengthening of international cooperation in social and economic development. However, the arrangements made for the maintenance of international peace and security need a thorough review. At a time when great emphasis is being placed on the principle of democracy at the national level, there is no valid reason for not extending the same principle to the sphere of international relations. The principle of sovereign equality among States is an important provision of the Charter. The General Assembly and its style of work represent the embodiment of this important principle. It is the only organ that enjoys universality of membership; therefore, its relationship with other organs of the Organization should reflect this pre- eminent status. Consequently, in the revitalization and restructuring process, the end product should be a reinvigorated General Assembly capable of asserting itself in its relationship with other organs of the United Nations. The Security Council is assigned by the Charter the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. The recent proliferation of situations of conflict, instability and tension around the globe calls for greater participation and involvement of the general membership in the workings of the Council. There is therefore need to adjust its membership, structure and methods of work to reflect the changes which have occurred in international relations since 1945. The first obvious change in our Organization is the dramatic increase in its membership. Consequently, the ratio between the General Assembly and the Security Council has progressively declined from 5 to 1 in 1945, through 8 to 1 in 1965, to 12 to 1 in 1993. Clearly, the Security Council has become less representative and needs to be enlarged. The second change relates to the configuration of power in political, economic and military terms which created the notion of permanent membership and the veto in the Council. Present realities dictate that the privileges enjoyed by the permanent members of the Security Council be modified and that the composition of the Council be altered, but with due regard to the provisions of Article 23, paragraph, 1 of the Charter, which accords due importance to 'the contribution of Members of the United Nations to the maintenance of international peace and security and to the other purposes of the Organization', subject, of course, to membership that is democratically elected and fully accountable to the total membership of the Organization on whose behalf the Security Council acts. It will take time to negotiate and put the changes in place. However, in the intervening period there is nothing to prevent the Organization from implementing interim measures which may go some distance towards redressing the present discrepancies. The mere expansion of the membership of the Security Council will not amount to much for Africa, Latin America and Asia unless the question of equitable geographic distribution is adequately addressed. At present, these three regions are grossly underrepresented, in terms of both non- permanent and permanent members. Africa and Latin America do not even wield a single veto, whereas the Group of Western European and Other States, and Eastern Europe, now wield four of the five vetoes in the Council. Moreover, the Group of Western European and Other States, and Eastern Europe, are allocated 7 of the 15 seats, leaving Africa, Asia and Latin America to share the remaining 8, an arrangement that is totally inequitable and therefore unacceptable. It is clear that the Security Council, through a liberal interpretation of the concept of international peace and security, has encroached on the jurisdiction of other organs in the system. We are concerned by the apparent impression often created by the Council that majority votes in the Council constitute international law, regardless of the provisions of the Charter and other relevant international statutes. The Security Council acts on behalf of the entire United Nations membership. Therefore, any tendencies or practices that may be interpreted as contradicting the norms and principles of transparency, accountability and democracy should be avoided. To this end, we should evolve a system that would ensure more participation by interested Member States that are not members of the Security Council. This will make it possible for such Members to have a meaningful input during the informal meetings of the Security Council. It is also desirable that the Council keep the general membership well informed regarding the stage and nature of discussions and negotiations undertaken. If we have addressed ourselves at some length to the issue of the Security Council it is because the responsibilities it shoulders have manifestly increased in number and complexity. It is our view that only through a process of internal institutional reform, which we believe is long overdue, can the moral authority and effectiveness of the Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 3 Security Council in discharging its mandate be enhanced and acknowledged. It is our hope that the current negotiations on this matter will be successfully concluded to coincide with the celebrations marking the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations in 1995. I now turn to the vital role of the Assembly as the central and universal forum for deliberation. Africa fully supports the efforts under way to revitalize and rationalize the work of the General Assembly. We believe that the exercise must be comprehensive, taking into account the expanded membership of the world body as well as the principle of sovereign equality of all States. The reform process must also fully address the need for the other principal organs of the United Nations system to report to the General Assembly, as provided in the Charter. As I have already noted, the tasks facing the United Nations today have increased with the unprecedented mushrooming of peace-keeping operations all over the world. Bitter armed conflicts continue to ravage lives and destroy property, stretching the much-needed administrative and financial resources of the Organization to the limit. Let us therefore redouble our efforts in support of the increased commitment and responsibilities of our Organization. The recent successes of the United Nations in bringing peace to Cambodia, El Salvador and Haiti and in facilitating the referendum in Eritrea are testimony to what can be achieved by our Organization acting in a concerted manner. It is in this context that we particularly welcome the Secretary-General’s proposals in his report 'An Agenda for Peace', relating to cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations in resolving conflicts, in peacemaking as well as peace building. We in Africa have taken a positive step in this direction. At the thirtieth summit meeting of the Organization of Africa Unity (OAU), held at Cairo in June this year, we adopted a mechanism whose primary objective is the anticipation and prevention of conflicts. Its mandate will be guided by the principles of the OAU Charter, in particular the sovereign equality of States. Where conflicts have already occurred, the function of this mechanism will be peacemaking and peace building. Even with our meagre resources, we are proud to say that Africa has already established a Special Fund to support OAU activities in conflict prevention and settlement. In southern Africa we continue to be bedeviled by conflicts in Angola, Mozambique and South Africa. In Mozambique, however, we welcome the recent talks between President Chissano and RENAMO leader Afondo Dhlakama, which have cleared some of the major obstacles to the peace process. We therefore urge the United Nations to continue its efforts to put the peace process back on schedule to enable elections to be held in October 1994. In Angola we are gravely concerned at the continued escalation of fighting between UNITA and the legitimate MPLA Government. This has caused untold loss of life and property. We believe that the efforts of the United Nations and the OAU should be aimed at achieving a cease-fire between the two warring parties and creating favourable circumstances for the deployment of United Nations peace- keeping operations while negotiations for peace take place. UNITA should accept the results of the September 1992 democratic elections, which were declared free and fair by international observers, including the United Nations. On South Africa, we applaud and support the current negotiations to bring about democratic change in that country, particularly the recent agreement regarding the future, and indeed ongoing, establishment of the Transitional Executive Council. We are, however, dismayed to note the intensification of violence and the withdrawal of the Inkatha Freedom Party and the white conservatives from the negotiations. These actions threaten the smooth progress towards the goal of democratic elections currently set for April 1994. We therefore urge the two parties to return to the negotiating table, as this is the only way forward. The United Nations should also seriously consider a more active role in the prevention of violence. The President of the African National Congress (ANC) has appealed to the United Nations for the ending of sanctions against South Africa, and we are glad that there has been response from a number of countries to that appeal. Zimbabwe fully supports the appeal, and we are glad that a stage has now been reached when we can judge the process to be more or less irreversible. In Somalia we commend the efforts of the United Nations in the difficult mission to restore normalcy to that tortured country. In Liberia and Rwanda, while peace has remained elusive, we are glad that current OAU and United Nations efforts to resolve the crises have begun to bear fruit. It is our hope that recent positive developments on the long- standing question of Western Sahara will result in a just and equitable settlement. The untiring efforts of the Secretary- General and the United Nations in seeking lasting solutions to these conflicts on our continent and elsewhere, particularly those emanating from the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia and Soviet Union, deserve our unqualified support. 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session As equal members of this family of nations, we believe that peace-keeping, peace-building and peacemaking must not be the preserve of a few economically or politically powerful countries. We stand ready to cooperate with the international community in seeking solutions to the many problems facing the world today, by participating in peace- keeping operations or mediation efforts, or by providing any facilities or expertise at our disposal. However, unless all Member States commit themselves to timely payments of their assessed contributions for these efforts, some countries will find continued participation difficult. We are fully aware that issues involving violent disputes or armed conflicts are not the only concerns of the international community. Other issues, such as trade and economic growth, as well as international cooperation for development, are matters of primary concern. We note with concern from the World Economic Survey, 1993 that for the third year in succession the rate of growth of world output in 1993 will be below that of world population. It is also evident from the Survey that the end of the East-West ideological divide has not brought with it a commensurate narrowing of the economic disparities between North and South. Instead, these disparities have become more pronounced than ever before. The problems confronting the developing countries today are manifold. Terms of trade continue to deteriorate, as high prices of imported manufactured goods and rising protectionism in developed countries become the order of the day. The socio-economic crisis in the developing countries has been further exacerbated by the crippling burden of debt. The flows of official development assistance, upon which they are dependent, has declined in recent years, while direct investment has constituted only a marginal percentage of all inflows to these countries, particularly those in Africa. In Africa, the least developed and most marginalized of all the world’s regions, the majority of countries are undertaking economic reform measures. They have made great sacrifices and encountered untold difficulties in implementing these reforms. In southern and eastern Africa in particular, the capacity to implement and keep these economic reforms on course was further undermined by the devastating drought which swept the region in 1991-1992. Yet these countries have continued to demonstrate their commitment to the reforms aimed at improving the standard of living of their people. Our sacrifices alone are not enough to ensure the success of our economic reform programmes. In this regard, we must once again reiterate the imperative need for an open and equitable international trading system and the provision of adequate financial resources. We therefore call for an early conclusion of the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). We also call again on the developed countries to achieve without further delay the target of 0.7 per cent of their gross national product for official development assistance that was set over 24 years ago by this very Assembly. Africa’s economic and social progress in general, and in the context of the implementation of the New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s in particular, will remain severely hampered as long as the continent’s debt burden continues to be as acute as it is today. Standing at close to $290 billion at the end of 1992, the continent’s debt is equivalent to 100.1 per cent of its gross national product, while it is an alarming 108 per cent for sub-Saharan Africa. With Africa continuing to be a net exporter of financial resources, is it any wonder that many of our human development needs and social services have gone unmet? We believe that there is a clear and compelling need to find a lasting solution to Africa’s indebtedness. While we welcome some of the positive steps taken by some creditor countries towards debt relief, as well as the important initiatives of the Bretton Woods institutions in this regard, we believe that an unacceptable gap still remains between rhetoric and action, and that more decisive measures can be taken to address this crisis. Africa believes that the commitment it made together with the international community, when the New Agenda was adopted in 1991, must be renewed and translated into concrete action. Fully cognizant of the fact that Africa’s development is primarily our responsibility, we have proceeded courageously to implement our side of the commitment, particularly in the promotion of regional and sub-regional economic cooperation and integration and the creation of an enabling environment for foreign and domestic investment. We therefore call upon the international community to buttress our efforts by addressing in a concerted manner the major constraints which I have highlighted. Africa does not seek charity. Mindful of the need to promote sustainable and self-sustaining development on the basis of self-reliance and the interdependence of Member States, the countries of Southern Africa signed in August 1992 a regional treaty establishing the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC). Foremost among our objectives are the achievement - through regional Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 5 integration - of development and economic growth, the alleviation of poverty, the enhancement of the standard and quality of life and the support of the socially disadvantaged. Through the various regional economic organizations such as the Eastern and Southern African Preferential Trade Area (PTA), the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and the Arab Maghreb Union, African countries are trying to further their aim of achieving self- sustaining development. These efforts will eventually culminate in the formation of an African Economic Community, whose foundations have already been laid. Furthermore, it is our objective to evolve common political values, systems and institutions, and to promote and defend peace and security in the region. It is our earnest hope that the international community as well as organs of the United Nations system and the multilateral financial institutions will continue to render their invaluable and generous assistance in order to ensure the success of our regional integration efforts. Zimbabwe is fully committed to achieving the sustainable utilization of our natural resources and the protection of our environment in order to attain sustainable development. In this context, we note with appreciation the progress made so far in establishing the institutional mechanism for the follow-up of the decisions taken during the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in June last year. In particular, we commend the Commission on Sustainable Development for the constructive and positive manner in which it conducted its work during its first substantive session in June. We welcome the stress that the Commission has placed on some of the areas critical to the successful implementation of Agenda 21, including the urgent need to support national efforts to achieve sustainable consumption and production patterns and lifestyles and the need for a supportive international economic environment. Issues such as the alleviation and reduction of poverty, the creation of remunerative and productive employment and social integration are at the core of the endeavours of all countries, but more urgently of developing countries. It is appropriate that these constitute the basis of our deliberations when we convene in Copenhagen, Denmark, in March 1995 for the World Summit for Social Development. These themes are all equally vital. It is gratifying that the international community has pronounced itself on them on many occasions as indeed have States individually and severally. The theme of social integration, for example, was addressed in a special way when two years ago we held a summit meeting on children here in New York. We adopted principles and guidelines which should govern the treatment and development of children in all our countries. We should, in translating these principles into practice, work to remove the status and stigma of society’s marginal people from our children. The children are our future. We have a duty to the future for them by the positive and practical measures we take today for their protection, education and development. Of great importance to us also are issues of population and the advancement of women. In this context we welcome and support the convening of the World Conference on Population and Development in 1994 in Cairo, Egypt, and of the World Conference on Women in Beijing, China, in 1995. In this regard let me underscore the conclusion of the World Economic Survey 1993 that the social concerns of developing countries, and the major issues of development in other areas of the world, cannot be resolved in the absence of world economic growth. It is our fervent hope that just as the United Nations has considerably strengthened its role in the political and humanitarian fields, its role in the economic, social and related fields will likewise be strengthened in order adequately to meet the emerging new realities and their impact on the developing countries. Let me conclude by calling upon all Member States to remember that just as the new international situation dictates the need to strengthen, democratize and streamline the operations of the United Nations and its constituent bodies, so also is it incumbent upon us to make an exceptional contribution in pursuit of the noble goals of justice, peace and development. This we believe can be achieved only if all Members live up to their obligations under the Charter. It is a great pleasure for us to salute your unanimous election, Sir, to preside over the General Assembly’s work at its forty-eighth session, especially since you are a worthy representative of a sister country of our region of Latin America and the Caribbean. Your opening address, in which you presented your vision of the world, was rich in ideas and insights into international reality. You urged that we commit ourselves to promoting the purposes and principles of the Charter in order to achieve a better world, and you encouraged us to reflect on our responsibilities as we strive to meet the global challenges facing our peoples. Your address demonstrated your sensitivity and wisdom, which, added to your political and diplomatic experience in multilateralism, will help us move forward to change as we endeavour to achieve the objectives of our Organization. We should also like to express our appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, the former Foreign Minister of Bulgaria, for the successful manner in which he guided the work of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly and in particular for his efforts to bring about the restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations system. We also wish to join in the expressions of appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dedication and hard work in leading our Organization. We once again express our support for and confidence in him in his difficult task of seeking international peace and security. For the fifth year in a row we have come to this highest international forum, from which it has been our privilege to give annual testimony to the progress of a process that, though it is unfolding in a small developing country, represents one of the most complex and exemplary dynamic forces for peace in modern history. In 1989, when we first came to speak to the world’s representatives from this rostrum, the case of El Salvador was just one more knot in the tangled web of problems left behind by the sadly notorious cold war as it began unexpectedly to wind down. A few months earlier, we had just taken the reins of government with a great purpose born in the deepest part of our conscience: to do all that was humanly possible to find a political solution to the Salvadorean conflict. That is how we expressed ourselves, with a solemn promise, to the Salvadorean people on the first day of our Government. We reaffirmed it before the United Nations in September of that crucial year of 1989, only a few weeks before the world witnessed the almost unbelievable dissolution of one of the greatest ideological- military Powers on Earth. This led to a new era - difficult, but also hopeful and promising, for all. If we wish sincerely to interpret the history of our country, we must say that the peace process in El Salvador was a search along various avenues that had been present in the lives of the people of El Salvador ever since our nation was born. Our peace process is not a mere expression of the need to find a sensible and reasonable end to an unjust and painful war. In El Salvador, as in so many other countries with a historical development similar to ours, peace is the generic name for age-old needs and aspirations, such as those for democracy, democratic institutions, the rule of law, political freedoms and rights - in a word, the victory of civilization over barbarism. This helped us to understand, as our work for peace began, that it must be solid and enduring. Otherwise, we would be making just another effort - like so many in our past - that would not rise above superficial means or lay the true foundations of the country’s political, social and economic modernization. For us - and this is the aspect that has enabled our process to succeed - peace is synonymous with democracy. We in El Salvador have been delighted to learn that, from varying perspectives of ideological and political thought, our peace process is considered exemplary. In this forum of nations, we should like to point to some of the factors that, in our opinion, have allowed us to set that example. First of all, we believe that the solution achieved is strictly in keeping with the nature of the conflict. Given that it was a conflict with historical and social roots, its eruption was eminently political, linked to the inadequacy and dysfunctioning of the traditional Salvadorean political system and the political-ideological confrontation of the super- Powers. The solution had to be political, without winners or losers, and to aim at the creation of a new scenario involving a system of pluralistic participation. The peace agreement is a plan of commitments to expanding, developing and guaranteeing democracy in El Salvador. That was what we needed. That is why it was implemented in an irreversible manner, despite momentary problems that were merely mishaps along the way. Secondly, the conflict led to violent confrontation in the country. The exhaustion from the war and the impetus towards a process of democratization created the conditions for the emergence in El Salvador of a culture of tolerance, understanding and reconciliation - in a word, a culture of peace. This concept has not emerged in El Salvador alone; it is a growing concern throughout the world. With the support of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, we are striving to promote a culture of peace, for which we appeal for the firm support of the international community. Without a culture of peace, which will help to remove the ever-active remnants of the culture of violence, it will be impossible to establish the new world order demanded by our times, a new moral order between men and nations as the foundation for this new world order of competitive but respectful and harmonious coexistence, which we can glimpse as an achievable reality as we pass into the new millennium. Thirdly, we must recognize that the peace process in El Salvador was continually and effectively followed by the international community, represented by the Security Council and the Secretary-General of this great world Organization, by a group of countries that had close ties to the situation in El Salvador in a variety of ways, and by a widespread general interest in observing the ways and means used to resolve a conflict such as the one that afflicted El Salvador for such a long time. We have no doubt that without this international attention a solution to the problem in El Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 3 Salvador would have been much more difficult and complicated. El Salvador is a living example of how the transition from a world dominated by a confrontational bipolarity to one determined by the logic of specific situations is taking place. We do not doubt for one instant that the engine of the world process is changing: from abusive and heartless ideology to pragmatic and ordered rationality. There have always been many problems and conflicts in the world, but for a long time the international drama seemed to be an increasingly absorbing confrontation of ideologies. This distortion, aggravated by the real problems that existed, impeded their solution. It is true that since the cold war painful and cruel situations have erupted, such as the one now experienced in the former Yugoslavia. But ideological, strategic and geopolitical bipolarity artificially created some conflicts and stifled others, also artificially. Reality is, of course, a better guide than all the fantasies of the ideologies. We in El Salvador do not speak of these matters with the tranquillity of analysts or the scientific patience of academicians. We speak of war because we have physically endured it. We speak of the worldwide ideological confrontation because, during what we now know was its last phase, El Salvador was one of its most intense battlegrounds. And we also speak of peace because we are building peace on the basis of an agreement of great institutional significance, conceived and structured to strengthen democracy in El Salvador and throughout Central America. We have already expressed what this peace means to us. And now we would like to emphasize that we are well aware that peace is a process. Being a process, it cannot be static, but must evolve. In this as well, El Salvador sets an example. Countries such as ours were for long caught up in the struggle between authoritarian stagnation and revolutionary radicalism. This is a pivotal moment in history, because it is giving us all a lesson in the pre-eminence of an ancient but under-valued concept: evolution. 'Everything changes,' said the pre-Socratic philosopher. But the natural rhythm of that change has always been a kind of historical riddle. With many certainties remaining, and in the healthy absence of the magical formulas that have so tormented the world during our century, we are perhaps on the way to understanding that the natural rhythm of change can also be summed in another classic phrase: 'Without hurrying, but without pausing.' With evolution as our guide once again, we have no reason to hurry. The rhythm of transformation occurs in a way that cannot be resisted. We see this in the changing international, political and economic relations of our time. An almost spontaneous restructuring has followed the removal of so many straitjackets. And this restructuring has brought to light what has always been most important: the real problems. As the East-West conflict has disappeared, almost no one speaks about the North-South conflict or alternative alignments, but the serious problems of inequality, critical poverty and dependence have not been resolved. They are still with us. And they are a challenge for this new order which we are trying to create on a more rational and reasonable foundation. In this new scenario, the United Nations has a central role which was until recently unimaginable. The great dynamic of universal peace cannot be led by a single country, nor even by a privileged group of countries. The cooperation, understanding and support of all countries is needed, as is an instrument which will make peace processes viable and monitor and support them. That instrument is this Organization, and this special dimension of its work has expanded and been emphasized in recent years. El Salvador has the honour to have been one of the first countries to benefit from the new United Nations system of peace- keeping efforts. All the work of active mediation and then active monitoring - unprecedented in international law - which the United Nations has been putting into practice in El Salvador, is not some theoretical artifice, but an exercise derived from the necessities of a real situation. The dynamic of the Salvadorian process has shaped the role of the United Nations in our country. We Salvadorians have learned much from our close relation with the world Organization, and we are sure that it too has learned very important lessons from its continuing participation in the achievement, maintenance and development of peace in El Salvador. Our view of the United Nations has been enriched as we have shared with the world Organization the responsibility of carrying out the peace plan in El Salvador. Thus we understand more clearly that the United Nations is also evolving. Its original form was a product of the end of the Second World War; it must now open itself up to new realities. Organs, such as the Security Council, and even the Secretary-General now have roles and responsibilities which demand changes. The composition of the Council and the veto mechanism within it, which were a result of the deep mutual distrust of the post-war period, must be fundamentally revised to adopt them to times of cooperation and exchange. The Secretary-General’s field of activity should also be reconsidered, because there is far more executive work to be done today than in the past. All these are unavoidable challenges that now face the Organization, to which we owe so much and which we wish to see ever stronger and more efficient. The United Nations has room for the whole world. In successive addresses here, we have emphasized the importance of the principle of universality. We understand that this principle cannot in any way provide a means of interfering in the internal affairs of States; at the same time we believe that there are realities of today’s world that cannot be disregarded. We have therefore supported consideration of exceptional situations, in keeping with the experience with parallel representation of divided countries at the United Nations. It should be possible to resolve this matter within the framework of understanding and openness that now characterizes international relations. El Salvador, for the first time in its history, is in the vigorous mainstream of modernization, a dynamic that concerns all countries during these times of change. Our contribution cannot be material, because we lack resources and wealth, but we have earned the capacity to speak with the moral force of a people raising itself up from its own rubble with the unexpected serenity that results from prolonged suffering. If we in El Salvador can testify to anything, we can testify that it is possible to move from irrationality to the deliberate construction of historical rationality. In proceeding along this long path we need the international community’s political, moral and financial support, in keeping with the resolution that the General Assembly adopted last year for the reconstruction and development of El Salvador. We must reincorporate ex-combatants in institutional and productive life through programmes such as the transfer of land for farming. Also, there are many new institutions emerging in our country, such as the civilian national police, which is one of the most ambitious experiments in public security in the world. We need timely technical and economic support to build the structures of peace more swiftly. We would like to be able to wipe from our minds the discouraging evidence that it is easier to find the money for war than for peace. The culture of peace - which is a world-wide challenge - must also become evident in this fundamental change in priorities. We are here for the last time because our presidential mandate comes to an end on 1 June 1994. It has been an immense honour for us to come here every year to report on the progress in a process that is of such great concern to the people of El Salvador, and yet is also of such concern to Central America and the international community because of its positive effects on regional stability. The country that we are talking about today is very different from the one that we were discussing in 1989, and the important thing is that what is surprising in the difference is how positive and how full of hope it is. The credit is not ours. We did our work and exercised our will. The credit goes to a people that, from being a footnote to history, has won, by dint of sacrifice, a place of honour in this changing scene that we are seeing emerge at this close of the century. All the political and social forces in El Salvador have worked together to bring about the emergence of the new country. The friendly countries that are closest to us by reason of history and geography can testify to this. We have made a successful effort to bring order to our economy, and we are laying the foundations for the continued constructive advance of full democracy - political, economic, social and cultural. El Salvador expresses its concern over the continued existence of conflicts that are devastating some parts of the world. The tragic cases of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of Somalia cause us great distress. However, we have confidence in the force of reason, which always finds a way to achieve even the most difficult goals. And there is good news too, such as the extraordinarily important agreement on mutual recognition between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, which has thrilled the world. We have also seen an opening up in South Africa for reason to prevail, and the situation in Haiti becoming clear, albeit with difficulty. All that gives us comfort, and reminds us that we are in a period of enormous surprises. The world is ridding itself of many oppressive spectres, and this gives us the strength to believe in the great potential of the international system. If we had to prepare a list of all those to whom we would give thanks for their contribution to peace in El Salvador, we would always leave out a few, but we cannot fail to mention the extraordinary work carried out both by the previous Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, and the present Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and also their body of collaborators and advisers, without whose participation and support it is unlikely that we would have achieved the goal of putting El Salvador on the road towards genuine peace. The Security Council has always been very mindful of the peace process in our country, and the Council’s active even- handedness also deserves our highest praise. Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 5 On behalf of El Salvador, I give thanks to everyone. El Salvador is a living example. We hope that we will continue to be an example of stability, respect for human rights, national concord and progress. We therefore call on the world to give us its attention and support, and, most of all, we ask God to shed his light on El Salvador, on the United Nations and on all men and women of good faith on this Earth of ours, which is a common inheritance that must be shared by all mankind. I should like first of all to extend my heartfelt congratulations to you, Mr. President, who also serve as Guyana’s Ambassador to Japan, on your election last week to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly. Let me also express my deep appreciation to the previous President, Mr. Ganev, for his achievements during the past year, particularly in pursuing General Assembly reforms. I want to take this opportunity to commend Secretary-General Boutros-Ghali for his selfless devotion to the cause of global peace and for his bold efforts towards United Nations reform. Finally, I warmly welcome the representatives of the six new Member States that have joined the United Nations over the past year. In Japan, the reins of government recently changed hands for the first time in 38 years. The coalition government that emerged has appointed me Prime Minister. Political changes in Japan are part of the dramatic changes in the international community since the end of the East-West confrontation. The post-cold-war era has opened, not just a new page, but a whole new chapter in Japanese politics. This means an era of basic reform in three main areas, namely, political, economic and administrative reforms. I believe these reforms are vital in strengthening Japan’s bonds with the international community. As I devote my attention and energy to these domestic reforms I have come to the United Nations General Assembly on my first official visit abroad. I have done so because Japan believes that the United Nations has a crucial role to play in the maintenance of international peace and security. I also wished personally to convey Japan’s determination to contribute, both financially and in terms of personnel, to various United Nations efforts. Further, I wish to state again that Japan continues to feel a sense of remorse over its past actions and that it is firmly resolved to make further contributions to the goals of world peace and prosperity. As for the current situation in Russia, Japan continues to support President Yeltsin in his reform efforts. Japan strongly hopes that a political environment which reflects the will of the Russian people will soon be created and that the reforms will be further promoted. Today, the primary objective of the United Nations and its Member States is to establish world peace on the basis of the universal principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights. There are four areas in which the international community must direct its greatest efforts in pursuit of this objective. I shall begin with the issue of disarmament. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) is the centre-piece of efforts to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons. I wish to affirm that Japan supports the indefinite extension of that Treaty beyond 1995. It is critically important that countries which have not yet acceded to the Treaty do so to enhance its universality. At the same time, the indefinite extension of the NPT should not mean the perpetuation of the possession of nuclear weapons by the nuclear-weapon States. Japan thus welcomes the progress made towards nuclear disarmament by the United States and Russia and emphasizes that all nuclear-weapon States must work in earnest to achieve further progress in nuclear disarmament. We hail the decision to commence substantive negotiations aimed at a comprehensive nuclear test-ban. For its part, Japan will work actively to help reduce world stockpiles of nuclear weapons. For example, we are ready to assist in the dismantling of nuclear weapons in the former Soviet Union. We also strongly urge North Korea to dispel international concern about its development of nuclear weapons by, for example, fully implementing the safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). On the transfer of conventional arms, the effective implementation of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms is essential. I strongly urge all nations to participate in this endeavour. In extending its official development assistance, Japan continues to pay full attention to such trends as military expenditures in recipient nations. The second point I wish to make is the importance of diplomatic efforts in the prevention of conflicts. The value of regional security arrangements and bilateral or multilateral political and security dialogue is undeniable in preventing or settling armed conflicts. In this connection, I was deeply moved by and heartily welcome the historic signing of the declaration of principles for Palestinian interim self-government by the Israelis and the Palestinians. I pay a sincere tribute to their political leaders for taking this courageous step. It is essential that the international community support this agreement actively and promptly in order to realize peace in the region. Japan will continue to play a constructive role in the multilateral negotiations that are part of the peace process. I am pleased on this occasion to announce Japan’s intention to extend about $200 million in assistance to the Palestinians over the coming two years. This assistance will include grant aid for food and medicine and concessional loans for infrastructure. Humanitarian considerations, particularly respect for human rights, are inseparable from the issue of peace. Where there is war, human rights are often neglected. Conversely, in countries where respect for human rights has been firmly established, hostilities are less likely to break out. Japan must actively contribute to the solution of humanitarian problems. I would like to see my fellow countrymen and women roll up their sleeves and work side by side with people from many other countries, whenever and wherever humanitarian activities are called for. The third area of focus is economic development as a foundation for peace-building. Today, the market economy has become a common language in most nations of the world, including many of the former socialist States. The development of the global economy based on principles of market economy should be urgently promoted. Japan and other industrialized nations must provide support to developing countries in their development efforts, as well as to former socialist countries in their political and economic reform efforts. It goes without saying that assistance to countries in transition must not come at the expense of aid to developing countries. Already the world’s top donor of official development assistance in absolute terms, Japan recently established its Fifth Medium-Term Target to further expand such assistance. Japan intends to provide official development assistance totalling between $70 billion and $75 billion over the five-year period beginning in 1993. As part of its aid efforts, two weeks ago Japan hosted, in Tokyo, the Third Mongolia Assistance Group Meeting. Next week, in cooperation with the United Nations, we will hold the International Conference on African Development in Tokyo. The fourth item I would like to address concerns global issues such as the environment and population. The urgent need to solve the problems of the global environment cannot be overemphasized. Japan is willing to assume a leading role in international efforts to tackle environmental problems. In so doing, we will draw upon the experience and know-how we have gained in overcoming serious pollution problems at home. Not only is Japan developing new technologies for environmental protection, it is taking the lead in transferring such technologies to developing countries through the International Environmental Technology Centre of the United Nations Environment Programme, which was set up in Japan last year. At the 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Japan pledged approximately $7 billion to $7.7 billion in environment-related official development assistance over the five years beginning 1992. In fact, Japan has already implemented more than one fourth of that amount. Population problems often lead to poverty and famine. Solving these problems is therefore crucial to the goal of sustainable development and will require a broad-based approach including education and public information efforts. With these thoughts in mind, Japan will sponsor a meeting of eminent persons on population and development next January, prior to the International Conference on Population and Development to be held in Cairo next year. The year 1995 will mark the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. Since the birth of this Organization immediately following the Second World War, the international climate has changed dramatically. In the meantime, United Nations membership has grown from 51 States in 1945 to the present 184. Today, the international community is placing ever- higher expectations on the United Nations. But serious reform efforts are necessary if the United Nations is to respond to these expectations and meet the new demands awaiting us at the threshold of the next century. I would like to comment on three specific areas in which reforms are necessary - namely, peace-keeping, the structure of the Security Council, and United Nations administration and finance. Last year, Japan enacted the International Peace Cooperation Law enabling it to contribute personnel to United Nations peace-keeping operations. Since then, it has dispatched Japanese personnel to Angola, Cambodia and Mozambique. Japan intends to continue to promote such cooperation in the future. Among recent United Nations peace-keeping operations, the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) stands out as a major achievement. I would like to take this opportunity to express my deep respect for the efforts of UNTAC personnel and all the countries concerned. The success of the operation in Cambodia owes much to the comprehensive framework for peace that was put in place and the support it received from the international community. I am convinced that its experience in Cambodia will provide the United Nations with useful insights for its future activities. Ensuring the security of the personnel engaged in United Nations peace-keeping operations is a task of high priority to the international community, and I hope this issue will be the subject of thorough debate at the current session of the General Assembly. Other issues demanding our attention are the need to determine a so-called 'sunset' for each peace-keeping operation to evaluate each operation properly and to review strictly the activities of an existing operation in deciding whether to extend its mandate. Japan also strongly hopes that the Peace-keeping Reserve Fund, which was established last year, will be fully funded and used effectively. The sharp increase in the number of regional conflicts has meant a dramatic expansion of the role of the Security Council. Accordingly, it is necessary that the functions of the Council, which has the primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security, be strengthened. It is important that those countries having both the will and the adequate capacity to contribute to world prosperity and stability be actively engaged in that effort. The views expressed by many Member States, including our own, in response to a General Assembly resolution on this subject last year, generally indicate the need to expand the membership of the Security Council, while ensuring that its effectiveness is maintained. Japan intends to participate constructively in the discussion on Security Council reform. Today the United Nations finds itself in extremely serious financial straits. In particular, the rapid expansion of peace-keeping operations has made it increasingly difficult for this Organization to meet its financial needs promptly. Without adequate financial resources, the United Nations Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 19 would be powerless to engage in any activity, no matter how meaningful it may be. I would like to remind all United Nations Member States how important it is that they face this reality and fulfil their obligations. At the same time, I note with concern the frequent allegations of inefficiency or wastefulness at the United Nations. I hope the United Nations will make the utmost efforts to meet the need for greater financial discipline and effective budgetary control. Japan is prepared to do all it can to discharge its responsibilities in a United Nations reformed with the previous three points taken into account. When the forerunner of the United Nations, the League of Nations, was established in 1920, the renowned Japanese educator Mr. Inazo Nitobe was appointed as one of its Deputy Secretaries-General. Mr. Nitobe, who had sought to introduce Japan’s philosophical traditions to the world, remarked that the Japanese place great value on moral principles. I would like to conclude my address by offering a quote from one of Mr. Nitobe’s lectures which reflects my own view on the evolving bonds between Japan and the international community: 'An international mind is not the antonym of a national mind ... The international mind is an expansion of the national mind, just as philanthropy or charity ... should begin at home.' I wish at the outset to extend to you, Sir, my congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. Your election reflects the Assembly’s full confidence in you. My delegation feels sure that we can count on your wide experience and personal skills to guide our deliberations to a fruitful conclusion. Allow me also to take this opportunity to express my delegation’s appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, for his tireless efforts to ensure the success of the forty-seventh session. I am pleased to see among us delegations from the six new Member States which joined the Organization this year. Their presence in this Hall reflects the momentous changes taking place in the world today and the growing confidence in the United Nations itself. My delegation feels that these new Members, each with its own distinctive historical, cultural and political backgrounds, will have important contributions to make to the Organization. My delegation welcomes them all and looks forward to working with them. It is an outstanding feature of our times that the number of sovereign States has increased and that the role of the Organization has grown enormously. There is today a remarkable growth in the demand for the services of the United Nations. As noted by the Secretary-General, the Organization has in the past four years become involved in as many peace-keeping operations as it had in the previous four decades. The United Nations is increasingly called upon to pour oil on troubled waters. Its peace-keeping missions are being carried out across the globe, from Somalia to Cambodia, and its agencies for development and humanitarian affairs have fanned out even further afield. As the United Nations assumes a more central role in the area of international security, it is essential that the Organization, in pursuit of the purposes stated in Article 1, act and be seen to act in accordance with the principles of the Charter. Myanmar would like to believe that in the post-cold-war era, States will adhere strictly to the Charter’s principles and make concerted efforts to establish a workable system of collective security. Just as the prohibition of the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State is fundamental in inter-State relations, the Charter unambiguously prohibits, in the well-known paragraph 7 of Article 2, any intervention of the United Nations itself 'in matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any State'. This prohibition applies equally to States and to other international organizations. In this time of major political and economic changes in a volatile world, extraordinary care should be taken to uphold such basic principles as respect for the territorial integrity or political independence of States. Myanmar fully supports the Security Council’s recommendation of 28 May 1993, which states that the Council considers that United Nations peace-keeping operations should be conducted in accordance with operational principles consistent with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. Those operational principles include a clear political goal with a precise mandate subject to periodic review and to change in its character or duration only by the Council itself; the consent of the Government and, where appropriate the parties concerned, save in exceptional cases; support for a political process or for the peaceful settlement of the dispute; and impartiality in implementing Security Council decisions. The experience in Somalia underscores the need to adhere to those principles in all peace-keeping and peacemaking operations. In particular, it underscores the need to exercise great prudence in sanctioning the use of force in such operations and in its application on the ground. It has also shown that peace-keeping operations cannot succeed without the willing cooperation of all the parties concerned. The conscience of the world has been troubled by the horror of the ongoing conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. While it is true that the United Nations has taken some action in response to the crisis and that negotiations have been initiated in Geneva, much more needs to be done to stop the fighting and find a peaceful solution. The situation is complex but it must be realized that innocent men, women and children in the besieged towns and villages expect more of an international Organization whose principal purpose is the maintenance of international peace and security. Unless appropriate actions are taken, the United Nations runs the risk of being seen as protecting only certain countries or interests. My delegation is pleased to note that in Cambodia, the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia has successfully discharged its main responsibility of supervising, monitoring and verifying the cease-fire and of organizing and conducting free and fair elections as scheduled, despite the decision of one of the Cambodian parties to stay away from the elections. The United Nations efforts to foster a democratic process and to bring back peace and stability to a country ravaged by two decades of civil strife and war is an outstanding achievement. We should like to take this opportunity to pay a warm and special tribute to Mr. Yasushi Akashi, the Special 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Representative of the Secretary-General, who handled a very delicate situation with great prudence and tact. This achievement has made it possible for the people of Cambodia to promulgate a new Constitution restoring the monarchy and to form a broadly based Government. The accession to the throne of Cambodia by His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk, a great patriot and statesman, is a historic event which augurs well for the rebuilding of a peaceful, unified and democratic Cambodia. As close neighbours, we look forward to peace and stability in Cambodia and to working closely with the Government and the people of Cambodia. The effort to end apartheid in South Africa, sustained over decades, has produced positive results. The announcement of an election date, 27 April 1994, for the first general elections in South Africa’s history based on universal franchise is a significant achievement. The elections will provide the black majority the opportunity to shape its own destiny by participating in a process which it had hitherto been denied. It is our hope that this will ensure that the objective of the people of South Africa for a democratic, non-racial and united South Africa will be achieved. Much, however, remains to be done to maintain the election timetable, and the next six months will be critical in ending apartheid. We note that four pieces of legislation - the Independent Electoral Commission, the Independent Media Commission, the Independent Broadcasting Authority and the Transitional Executive Council - have been adopted by both the Negotiating Council and the South African Parliament. We hope that these bodies will be established as soon as possible to guide the country through the constitutional process. I am happy to note that the winds of change blowing across our world have not left the Middle East untouched. The historic agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization on mutual recognition has effectively removed a major obstacle to peace in that region. We welcome this positive step and the signing of the Declaration of Principles, which envisions self-rule by Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and in Jericho. We are also pleased to note that Israel and Jordan have signed the agreed common agenda of the peace negotiations between them. We congratulate all parties concerned for displaying rare courage and mutual accommodation in reaching the accords. These important steps, we hope, will open the way to reconciliation between neighbours and to the achievement of a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in the Middle East based on Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). The new climate of cooperation between the United States of America and the Russian Federation opens up at least the prospect of real progress in disarmament. This is amply demonstrated by the signing of the chemical weapons Convention in Paris earlier this year by an unprecedented number of countries. Myanmar was part of the Geneva Conference process leading to that comprehensive instrument, and continues to take an active part in the Preparatory Commission for the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. The increased attention we have been devoting to chemical weapons should not distract us from nuclear disarmament issues, notably from the need to strengthen the international non-proliferation regime and to ban all nuclear testing. The enormous quantities of nuclear material that exist in the world today and the increasing difficulty of detecting the clandestine development of nuclear weapons underscore the need to redouble efforts to strengthen safeguards against proliferation. Myanmar will work with other delegations for the success of the 1995 Non- Proliferation Treaty (NPT) review and extension Conference. With the end of the Cold War, the case for reducing the number of large strategic nuclear weapons is strong. The United States and Russia should reduce their forces more drastically than they agreed to in START II and refrain from improving their nuclear arsenals both qualitatively and quantitatively. Meanwhile every effort must be made to fulfill the commitment undertaken in the 1963 Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and Under Water. A comprehensive ban on nuclear testing has been a long-standing objective of the international community, including Myanmar. We hope that this objective will be achieved at the earliest possible date, preferably before the NPT review and extension Conference convenes. The global economic recovery remains high on the international agenda. In a highly interdependent global economy, the prosperity and growth of the developed and the developing countries are intertwined. We therefore welcome the statement of the Group of Seven at the Tokyo Summit which recognizes that sustainable development and integration of the developing countries into the world economy is essential for global peace and prosperity. We look forward to the concretization of the commitment by the Group of Seven to pursue a comprehensive approach covering aid, trade, investment and debt strategy. Debt strategy, in our view, should not be carried out on a case-by-case basis. It should be comprehensive for all debtor countries. We are encouraged by the statement that Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 7 the major industrialized countries are determined to curb protectionism and that no recourse will be made to initiatives and arrangements that threaten to undermine the open multilateral system. High priority must be given to the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round. The Punta del Este Declaration is still valid, as are the provisions therein on special and differential treatment for the developing countries. We have always subscribed to the view that the United Nations occupies a unique position as a major forum for the promotion of international cooperation for development. It has now been universally recognized that world peace and security, to be enduring must be underpinned by economic and social development worldwide. In this regard we share your view, Mr. President, that 'An Agenda for Peace' must now be complemented by 'An Agenda for Development'. We ardently hope that deliberations on this topic at the current session of the General Assembly will lead to enhanced international cooperation for development, thereby contributing to global economic recovery and international peace. In Myanmar we believe that political progress and economic development are interdependent and that both are vital to the well-being of the country. For this reason we have been endeavouring to ensure political stability while promoting economic reforms. Last year I stated here that steps were being taken to convene a National Convention in order to formulate guidelines for a firm and enduring constitution.I am now happy to report that the National Convention commenced work on 9 January of this year. The Convention is an essential prerequisite for the building of a democratic society in Myanmar, and its significance can hardly be overemphasized. It has the participation of nearly 700 delegates comprising elected representatives, representatives of the national races, political parties, peasants, workers, intelligentsia and technocrats, State service personnel, and specially invited persons. There is universal agreement that the objectives of the Convention should be to uphold the principles of non-disintegration of the Union, non-disintegration of national solidarity and perpetuation of national sovereignty; to nurture the universal values of justice, liberty and equality; and to enable the Tatmadaw, the Myanmar Defence Services, to participate in a leading role in national politics. Following intensive deliberations, agreement has been reached on the chapter on the fundamental principles of the State, which is of paramount importance as it embodies the essence of the new constitution. Following extensive discussions, consensus has also been reached on these Fundamental Principles. In a period of nine months much has been accomplished. Much of course remains to be done. The Convention is presently in recess in order to provide time for the delegates to make necessary preparations for the next phase, which will commence on 18 January 1994. The delegates to the Convention have had the opportunity to study the Constitutions of various countries so that they may cull the best from around the world. However, there can be no single model that can be copied and superimposed on Myanmar. The constitution to be drafted must be in harmony with our own conditions and reflect the wishes and aspirations of the entire nation. The history of the modern nation of Myanmar is synonymous with the history of the Tatmadaw. Since the time of our struggle for national independence it has been in the forefront of national politics. On four occasions since independence when the country’s national sovereignty and independence were threatened, the Tatmadaw was called upon to shoulder national responsibilities to protect and safeguard the nation. The Tatmadaw does not covet power. Nor does it have any desire to hold on to the reins of power. It is above party politics. However, as it represents the single disciplined organization in the nation it is incumbent upon it to play a leading role in national politics, safeguarding the nation, national unity and national sovereignty. On the economic front, efforts are being made to ensure a smooth transition from a centrally planned economy to a market economy. Now that teething pains have been overcome the economy is on the mend. It is significant that the gross domestic product grew by 10.9 per cent in 1992-1993. The private sector, which only a few years ago was almost non-existent, is expanding. Today there are a growing number of investors, both local and foreign, in fisheries, mining, oil exploration, manufacturing and various other sectors. Major offshore oil and gas finds in our waters have also heightened interest among friends and neighbours in establishing mutually beneficial economic cooperation. The political and economic changes are evidenced by the vast transformations taking place in much of the country. In both urban and rural areas, as well as in the border regions, there is unprecedented infrastructure building: schools, hospitals and dispensaries, as well as railways, roads, bridges and multi-purpose dams, are going up everywhere. That the people’s living standards are rising is plain for all disinterested observers to see. In spite of the positive political and economic changes taking place in Myanmar, some continue to point an accusing finger at us in regard to human rights. It bears repeating that when we speak of human rights, the diversity 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session of our people’s historical, cultural and religious backgrounds must neither be minimized nor forgotten. There is no unique model of implementation of human rights that can be superimposed on a given country. Any attempt to do so would only spell chaos. If parts of the international community are now beginning to contemplate the use of the issue of human rights as a pretext for intervening in domestic affairs of States, they will only undermine the very rights they wish to protect and promote. Poverty is one of the most pressing human rights issues in our world today, and that is what we should seek to overcome. In Myanmar we are giving priority to the elimination of poverty and the narrowing of the gap between the rich and the poor, the city dwellers and the rural folk. We are redoubling our efforts to ensure that all citizens have equal opportunity in their access to food, housing, transportation, employment, education and health services. On our western borders, over 40,000 returnees from Bangladesh have been systematically received and returned to their hearth and home. This is the result of the good- neighbourly relations that exist between Myanmar and Bangladesh. In accordance with the agreement reached between the two countries in April 1992, we will continue to receive those who are eligible to come as soon as their cases can be processed by the authorities concerned in the camps. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Mrs. Sadako Ogata, who visited Myanmar recently, has been fully briefed on the important measures we have taken. A memorandum of understanding between Myanmar and the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) will be signed shortly; it will provide for the latter’s presence on the Myanmar side of the border. We understand the need to find a lasting solution to the complex problem of transborder migration for economic or environmental reasons, and to that end we intend to hold consultations with our Bangladeshi friends. It has been our consistent policy to cooperate fully with the United Nations in every field, including human rights. Not only have we furnished information sought by various United Nations bodies dealing with human rights; we also received in 1992 the Special Rapporteur appointed by the Commission on Human Rights, Mr. Yozo Yokota. We will receive him yet again this year to demonstrate our good will. It is our hope that Myanmar’s traditional respect for human rights as well as the remarkable changes taking place throughout the length and breadth of the country - from the cities and towns to the border areas - will be seen and appreciated. Through the constructive measures taken in the past five years, 10 terrorist groups have now returned to the legal fold. Just last week, as the result of negotiations held between the Government and Kachin national leaders in a spirit of mutual accommodation and understanding as befits blood brothers, the Kachin terrorist group returned to the legal fold and has already joined hands with the Government in promoting peace and prosperity in the Kachin state. Just as the representatives of the nine preceding groups are actively participating in the National Convention, the representatives of this group, too, will enjoy the same rights. It augurs well for the peace and unity of our country that these 10 terrorist groups which have renounced the use of force have been reintegrated into the national mainstream. The return of our prodigal sons from 10 different national races gives the lie to allegations that minority groups in Myanmar are being oppressed, that their human rights are being grossly violated and that democracy is non- existent in the country. Never before in the history of independent Myanmar have so many terrorist groups returned to the legal fold in such numbers. That they have done so is unmistakable testimony to the complete trust and confidence which the national races have in the policy of national reconciliation espoused by the State Law and Order Restoration Council and in its good will and sincerity. Few Governments can claim such positive achievements. The problem of illicit drugs is like a cancer that poses a great threat to the stability and well-being not only of our country but also of the international community. Myanmar remains steadfast in its resolve to overcome this scourge. We realize that the problem of illicit drugs and trafficking transcends borders and is too complex to be tackled by any country acting alone. We have accordingly been working together with the United Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP) and neighbouring countries to expand activities aimed at reducing the supply of illicit drugs and eventually eliminating opium cultivation altogether. In June 1992 Myanmar took the initiative by signing agreements with the People’s Republic of China and the UNDCP and also with Thailand and the UNDCP regarding crop substitution, demand reduction and law enforcement. UNDCP experts are already in the country working to achieve these goals. Myanmar and Laos have also agreed to cooperate in this regard. The Governments of Myanmar, Laos, Thailand and China, aware that the problems of illicit drug production, trafficking and abuse can be addressed only through concerted international efforts, will sign a memorandum of understanding with the UNDCP during the course of the high-level plenary meetings of the General Assembly on drug control to be held in New York from 26 to 27 October. Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 9 Last April, Myanmar signed a drug agreement with India, and a similar agreement will be worked out with our remaining neighbour, Bangladesh. We are confident that this comprehensive and coordinated effort at the subregional level will produce the desired results. In the past year the strategy of combining prevention, education, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts, law enforcement and border area development has borne fruit. Significant amounts of illicit drugs and drug paraphernalia have been seized and destroyed. United Nations personnel and other visitors have been given the opportunity to visit the regions where opium is grown. In August, United States Congressman Charles B. Rangel, Chairman of the House Narcotics Abuse and Control Committee, and Congressman Bill Richardson visited eastern Shan State to acquire first-hand knowledge of the illicit drug problem. During the visit they witnessed the destruction of large amounts of opium, heroin, opium oil, liquid opium and other drugs seized by the Myanmar authorities. Myanmar will continue to give top priority to overcoming the threat posed by illicit drugs, and it is our hope that more and more countries will join hands with us in this noble endeavour. Myanmar today is on the threshold of a new era. The political, economic, social and administrative reforms currently being implemented herald a united, stable, peaceful and prosperous country. The new society will guarantee the unity of the national races and ensure the perpetuation of our national independence and sovereignty. It will be in harmony with its environment, its historical experiences, and the political, economic and social conditions of the nation. It will reflect the diverse culture and traditions of the national races in the union. The new Myanmar nation that is envisaged by the National Convention will be a genuine multi-party democratic state. It will be a nation based on the universal values of justice, liberty and equality. There will be social justice, economic justice and political justice. There will be a complete separation of powers of state, and the judiciary will enjoy total independence. Freedom of thought, freedom of expression, freedom of belief, freedom of worship, freedom to seek a livelihood and freedom of organization will be guaranteed. There will also be equality of status, equality of opportunity and equality before the law. These conditions will not materialize of their own accord. The right atmosphere must be created. To this end, my Government is doing its utmost to vindicate the trust placed in it by the people. As the democratic society envisaged is for the people of Myanmar, it must reflect the objective conditions of the country and be established in the manner and at the pace best suited to it. Allow me to conclude by saying that the Tatmadaw have never failed the people in their hour of need and will not do so at this historic moment when a new nation is being created. In 1990 the Peruvian people - heirs to an ancient culture, who, like other peoples of the third world, suffered the consequences of colonialism and later various frustrations caused by our history - began to ask themselves more and more why they had not reached a truly dignified level of existence comparable to that of the developed countries. Why was it that a rich nation, known for its hard-working population and enjoying apparent democracy, should have to suffer from hyperinflation, isolation from the international financial community, terrorism, drug-trafficking, corruption and internal and external debt? In short, why was it ungovernable? The so-called traditional democracy, which solved none of Peru’s serious problems, had been nothing more than a struggle between privileged minorities, the elite and party leaders who took turns in power while the country sank deeper and deeper into misery. Nations, however, do not disintegrate in such crises; rather, they are roused to carry out moral and material reconstruction. Such has been the case in Peru. I ask myself, and I ask all those present, the representatives of all the nations of the world, 'Which is the first priority: the narrow, blind defence of an institutional formality that is now worthless and obsolete, or a better destiny for millions of human beings?' Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 7 We in Peru have experienced this disjunction which the Government of President Boris Yeltsin in Russia is experiencing so dramatically today. Why should we fear making corrections in the course of our history, however radical they may be? To govern is to confront problems firmly, and not to defer, much less to evade, decisions. In exceptional circumstances, when the civilized existence and survival of a nation is at stake, each country has to find its own course and its own solutions and then reconstruct its democracy in touch with its own reality. Failing this, it will simply become ungovernable - a situation that most often leads to anarchy, which in turn inevitably generates violence. The institutions of Peru’s incipient political system proved to be among the most inefficient on the continent. That was the context within which Shining Path and the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement came into existence. The model for Shining Path is Pol Pot’s Khmer Rouge. This is why, for 10 years, that group’s activities were directed toward destroying the existing system: industries, laboratories, electrical towers, machinery, bridges, highways and public buildings, costing the country US$ 25 billion in material damages and losses. New York learned what terrorist insanity is all about with the criminal attack on the World Trade Center - an isolated case, thank goodness. We had reached a clear and elemental disjunction: either we stopped the crisis and the terrorism which steadily nourished it, or the country would collapse completely. My responsibility was to govern, not to serve as Peru’s undertaker. Our anti-terrorist strategy has led to the reinstatement of the principle of authority throughout the country, particularly in places as dissimilar as state universities and penitentiaries. After being captured a year ago, Abimael Guzmán made a fiery proclamation to all his followers to continue relentlessly the war against the Peruvian State and its society. Today, in a 180-degree turn, he appeals to your speaker, the President of Peru, in order to retract his previous atrocious objectives. This shows essentially that he has inevitably come to terms with the total defeat of his totalitarian project. In fact, I recently received a revealing communication from the leader of Shining Path, Abimael Guzmán, who is in jail, in which he asked for 'a peace agreement'. I repeat, Abimael Guzmán Reynoso has asked the President of Peru to talk about a 'peace agreement'. But a 'peace agreement' implies negotiation between two belligerent groups considered to be equal - equal not only militarily but also from a moral and ethical standpoint. This is inadmissible, for there can be no negotiations with a genocidal terrorist group - described as such by the United Nations itself - whose leader, having been captured, tried and sentenced last year to life imprisonment, has absolutely no power to negotiate. Moreover, there is no correlation of forces between the Peruvian State and these criminals that could put them on an equal footing. There can be no doubt that it has been completely recognized that the State, the Armed Forces, the National Police and the people of Peru are prevailing over terrorism. The Government of Peru is fully aware of its obligation to respect the international principles of the Geneva Convention. Nevertheless, it will make no concession in any way that would jeopardize the process of restoring peace completely to Peru. Through the attainment of peace in our country and the definitive eradication of terrorism, we are also preventing the spread of terrorism to the rest of the Southern Cone of our continent. The Peruvian Government and its people will tirelessly continue their effort to fight terrorist violence, with or without requests from the heads of these organizations. If they really wish peace to be achieved as soon as possible, they should immediately and unconditionally stop terrorist actions and their methods of propagation, as a preliminary step enabling the Peruvian State to prevent further bloodshed and suffering for the Peruvian people and to take the further steps required to facilitate the process by which the Government will fully consolidate national peace before the date I promised to my fellow citizens, that is, 1995. Twenty-five thousand deaths; hundreds of thousands of refugee peasants displaced from their villages; thousands of widows and orphans; hundreds of handicapped and maimed, including civilian, police and military; thousands of children who have grown up in the middle of a cruel war; $25 billion of material waste; an entire country paralysed by terror and uncertainty: this is the sum of 13 fateful years, during which a State considered to be democratic appeared not to exist in the face of totalitarian terror. The end of this vicious circle is approaching after 17 months - barely 17 months - of the counter-terrorist strategy developed by my 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Government. Now we can talk about the State and democracy in Peru. In our country, a new and exemplary democracy is being devised. It has some unusual elements: the common man’s awareness of his chronic exclusion from the mainstream of civic life; his experience and sacrifice as a survivor of one of the century’s worst economic crises; and his equally successful involvement in the war against the nation’s terrorist threat - within the framework of the full exercise of his right to self-defence and the universal rights of the individual and of every citizen. Peru can once again see the light of day. The nightmare of war is now behind us. Those who doubted that this was possible must now admit that it has happened and must recognize that the decisions taken in April 1992 were absolutely necessary. Peru is beginning to be a viable country again - an attractive country visited by thousands of tourists, who can confidently bear witness to its new look, a country with hope, one into which foreign capital is flowing, thereby generating more employment and wealth. In the near future, the Peruvian people will have the historic opportunity to decide upon a constitution incorporating the thoroughgoing reforms that will guarantee peace and progress in our country. This will be the end of a grim cycle. Peru is now a country open to the world - one which, like other countries all over the planet, is beginning fully to exercise its right to be a free and prosperous nation through the implementation of a true democracy and of a system of government that will benefit our people. It gives me great pleasure to congratulate Ambassador Insanally on his election to the high office of President of the General Assembly. I should also like to welcome the new Members of our Organization: Andorra, Eritrea, the Czech Republic, Monaco, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Slovakia. The historic and courageous breakthrough in the Middle East tells us that even the deepest trench can be bridged. Conflict has tormented that entire region for most of this century. It has brought super-Powers to the brink of war. It has placed enormous burdens on the United Nations itself. It has deprived families of their dear ones and held people under the ominous spell of fear. Now we must seize the moment. Now we are at a turning point for the United Nations as well. Now we must answer the clarion call and mobilize our collective political and financial resources to help move the peace process forward. The time has come to let the divisive, acrimonious Middle East debates and decisions of the past fade into history. Israeli and Palestinian leaders have made reality of the seemingly impossible. We would fail abysmally in our duties should we falter now in our efforts to support the process of prying peace out of the knot of conflict, a process which men and women of vision have dared to think, dared to do. Due to our long-standing relations with the parties, both our friendship with Israeli leaders and the mutual trust we have established with the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), Norway was privileged to contribute to these defining dramatic events. In this spirit, we shall go to Washington on 1 October, committed to help in building peace. For the peace process to succeed, it must be consolidated and stabilized by the economic development the two parties have agreed to undertake together. The fruits of peace must become tangible and real for the women, men and children of Gaza and the West Bank. The process of implementation could change the perspectives and expectations of the parties, convert interdependence into a sense of community, and make possible solutions and visions which today seem beyond reach. The economic situation in Gaza and on the West Bank is dramatic and calls for immediate and extensive economic aid. Now we must respond to the just but unfulfilled aspirations of the Palestinians: for job opportunities and for schools, hospitals and universities. Now we must assist in building houses, roads and water supplies, and make reconciliation pay, so that new generations of Israelis and Palestinians may grow up without fear, as good neighbours, in a life of dignity. A period of healing is needed in which all peace-loving countries, the United Nations itself, the Bretton Woods institutions, other financial institutions and the European Community join financially - and substantially - in a coordinated, immediate investment-for-peace programme. I pledge and confirm that Norway’s assistance will be substantial and that we shall be honoured to play a continuing political role should the parties so desire. A period of renewal and change must also embrace South Africa and our relations with that country. South Africa is in desperate need of peace and reconciliation. Fixing a date for democratic elections in April next year is a beacon of hope that the post-Apartheid system will finally gain the democratic legitimacy which the South African Government cannot claim today. Until the day when black South Africans can enjoy the human rights of which they have been oppressively deprived, until the day when violence is ended and joint political control has been established over the military and police forces, until that day South Africa will remain a country in imperative transition. The outside world and the United Nations must, in time, recognize the potential of post-apartheid South Africa - at peace with itself and endowed with immensely rich natural and human resources - for the whole region of southern Africa. Education and training are needed for generations which are now ready to assume an equal role in the economy of their country. We must now act forcefully, encouraging proponents of peace and transition, and Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 21 discourage the shrill voices of hatred and interposition so that one day - soon - the South African man and woman may be free at last. We must never lose hope that peace can be achieved. But our hope has been severely tested by the protracted atrocities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There seems to be no limit to the brutality that human beings are capable of mobilizing in the service of a nationalistic goal. Such acts have been committed in the name of a doctrine - the doctrine of the ethnic state - and thus prolong the sinister existence of doctrine as a source of war and contention in this century. Ethnic nationalism is a threat to peace and stability everywhere. The ethnic mosaic of Europe does not lend itself to such reduction. A doctrine of the ethnic state is a prescription for war. Our task is to build communities which include rather than exclude and to make all multi-ethnic regions safe refuges of enlightened diversity. A military victory in which aggression appears to pay in Bosnia will be noted in those parts of the world where different nationalities are sharing territory and political organization. In the former Soviet Union alone, ethnic tensions are reaching critical mass or have already erupted, as in Nagorny-Karabakh and Abkhazia. The authority of the United Nations is seriously undermined if there is vacillation on where and how to use the 'Blue Helmets'. We should admit that there have been failures along the way and learn from experience. Our main thrust must be to aim for a negotiated solution based on known elements. The alternative to a negotiated settlement is continued bloodshed. The alternative to peace is war. Norway fully supports the efforts of Thorvald Stoltenberg and David Owen. All parties must now cease hostilities and allow time for the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina to heal so that we can start slowly to build a foundation for peace. Let us be inspired by the Israelis and the Palestinians, and let us all send a message to the parties in Bosnia: enough! Peace is possible. The time for a settlement is long overdue. The situation is already disastrous, and another winter of war is bound to take a severe toll of lives. Norway is among the major providers of humanitarian assistance to the area. International attention is focused on the terrible ordeal of the Muslims, but there are Croats and Serbs who suffer greatly as well. We should be even-handed in our humanitarian assistance, making a clear distinction between, on the one hand, warlords and war criminals and, on the other, those on all sides who are without a voice and without a choice, those who are victimized and whose only hope is the assistance we can provide from the outside. It is absolutely imperative to improve on the coordination and cooperation between United Nations peace-keeping operations, United Nations humanitarian agencies and non-governmental humanitarian organizations. Somalia is an obvious case in point. For Norway it is a priority issue to move such coordination forward. We shall convene a conference before the end of the year with the aim of improving our capacity to organize real peace operations incorporating both humanitarian and military tasks. We should all support our Secretary-General’s proposals for a necessary strengthening of the Department of Peace-keeping Operations. The management organization for United Nations peace-keeping operations here in New York is manifestly inadequate. The result is that troop- contributing nations exercise direct control, which radically reduces coherence and effectiveness. The situation is aggravated by the Security Council’s propensity to make ambitious decisions but fail to provide the Secretariat with the means to implement them. Failing to provide financial, human and technological resources undermines both peace and the authority of the United Nations. We know what needs to be done. We must focus on the following: There must be realistic mandates for new United Nations peace-keeping operations whose goals and means must be clearly defined. We must have proper stand-by arrangements for troops and equipment from Member States, and Norway is prepared to contribute in concrete terms to a collective stand-by effort. We need improved training and analysis of past experience; our training facilities should be linked in a consortium for United Nations peace-keeping training. There must be an immediate and substantial increase in the United Nations reserve fund for peace-keeping; moreover, a unified peace-- keeping budget must be introduced which allows the Secretary-General to obligate at least 20 per cent of the estimated cost of peace-keeping operations once they have been approved by the Security Council. We need improved financing for peace-keeping operations and financial discipline among Member States. Indeed, the whole financial situation of the United Nations is disgraceful. As the eighth-largest contributor to the United Nations system in absolute terms and by far the largest in per capita terms, we find it exceedingly difficult to 22 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session understand how so many countries fail to honour their obligations. The Secretary-General has said that 'the Organization lives from hand to mouth.' (Statement by the Secretary- General to the Fifth Committee, 26 August 1993). The permanent members of the Security Council have a special responsibility. But we should also ask ourselves if countries should be eligible at all for the Security Council if they have not paid their contributions. The post-cold-war patterns of risks and uncertainties have brought about a wider recognition and understanding of the need to address the serious economic and social inequalities in the world and their implications for global security. Core issues such as environment and development used to be seen as side issues by the prime movers of international affairs. There is a new hope that this could be changing. The Secretary-General points out in his report that without sustainable development peace cannot long be maintained and that political, social, educational and environmental factors must all be part of development. Unsustainable production and consumption patterns still prevail and can be counteracted only by changing how and in which fields our economies continue to grow. If current forms of development were employed, a further fivefold to tenfold boost in economic activity would be required over the next 50 years to meet the needs and aspirations of 10 billion people. Currently, the vast majority who are poor make only a minimal claim to our natural resources, while the more voracious North is consuming in a few decades what it has taken the planet billions of years to accumulate. The Norwegian Minister of the Environment raised the issue of production and consumption patterns in the industrial part of the world at the first session of the Commission on Sustainable Development. Early next year Norway will host a meeting on these issues as a contribution to the next session of the Commission. The rapid population growth in many parts of the world is a ticking time-bomb. Ninety per cent of this increase is taking place in developing countries, many of which are unable to feed their present populations. We may soon be facing new famine of a magnitude dwarfing even Malthus’ gloomiest predictions. There may be mass migration and the destabilization of countries and regions as people compete for ever-scarcer land and water resources. The International Conference on Population and Development, to take place in Cairo in September 1994, must address the complex root causes of the population explosion. The agreements reached at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio last year, however imperfect, set a sound, ambitious agenda for action to ensure sustainable development. Yet, I regret to say, the momentum generated in Rio has been allowed to lose some of its force. The world will not forget, and our children will long remember, that the industrialized countries committed themselves in Rio to providing new and additional funding to combat climate change and safeguard biological diversity. So far, however, contributions have been small-scale. The aid fatigue continues despite enormous needs and a more fertile ground for development in countries which have made sacrifices and taken the bitter but crucial medicine of structural adjustment, and despite the reduction of military budgets to levels where countries again should be deemed creditworthy. Far, far more serious, and not only for the developing world, is the gambling with the Uruguay Round holding the prospects of global free trade hostage to narrow national interests. For most countries, strongly dependent as they are on international trade, an agreement, even if each and every provision may not be ideal, is absolutely necessary. I urge the major parties to live up to the expectations created at the Group of 7 meeting in Tokyo that before the end of the year the deal will be closed. Environment and trade must be the next agenda item. We should be more outspoken about conflicting interests and more receptive to the fact that we do not have the option to go our separate ways. We must develop a sound, scientific basis for managing our natural resources in a sustainable way. In a politically, culturally and socially diverse world, science and knowledge can be the only basis for sound and lasting cooperation in this field. And while we reduce our strain on finite natural resources, the environmental agenda is constantly widened by the unveiling of the ecocide almost committed by the former Communist countries. Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 23 The nuclear threat is not confined to that inherent in the remaining arsenals of nuclear weapons. Increasingly, our security is threatened by the enormous deposits of nuclear waste on land and at sea. Large-scale international cooperation is required to eliminate this threat. Nuclear weapons have not disappeared, and the capacity to make them is broadly present. Proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the means of their delivery constitutes perhaps the greatest threat to international peace and stability. It is a matter of utmost priority to broaden and deepen the non-proliferation regime to comprise a broader pattern of commitments and cooperative behaviour. In this connection, Norway urges the nuclear-weapon States to redouble their efforts to conclude a comprehensive test-ban treaty. We expect that they will refrain from any testing while negotiations proceed. We also urge North Korea to submit fully to the safeguard regime of the International Atomic Energy Agency and to adhere to the Non- Proliferation Treaty. Development without democracy and respect for human rights will never be sustainable. Democracy is indispensable for promoting and upholding respect for human rights, for social and economic development, for peace and security, and for liberating the human creativity which is so vital to any social and economic development. I urge this Assembly to create the post of high commissioner for human rights and to agree on a quantum leap in the allocation of resources for the United Nations human-rights activities. This is a modest price to pay for strengthening the basis for peace and stability. The lines between foreign and domestic policies have long since vanished. Narrow-minded forms of nationalism will not serve us. We must move towards an inclusive enlargement where the powerful are just and the weak secure. Only the United Nations can provide the framework of a better-organized world, which today is too fragmented and uncoordinated. More and more causes are common, as, indeed, is our whole future. The Middle East breakthrough gives us the hope that no challenge is too difficult and the belief that we can make this world a civilized place. Mr. President, I should like to begin by congratulating you on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly and by expressing our confidence in your ability to steer the proceedings of the present session. I also express our gratitude to the outgoing President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the dedicated way in which he fulfilled his mandate and contributed to the rationalization of the work of the Assembly. I also congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose initiative and commitment have already made it possible to take important steps towards a thorough reform of the United Nations and towards strengthening its international credibility as an irreplaceable instrument of peace. The universal calling of the United Nations, enshrined in its Charter, gives special meaning to the accession of six new Member States, Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, the Slovak Republic, Monaco and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; they have reinforced the legitimacy of this forum and assumed, before the international community, the responsibility entailed in the full exercise of national sovereignty. My Belgian colleague, in his capacity as current President of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities, has already had the opportunity to make a statement on behalf of the 12 member States; Portugal fully subscribes to that statement. I should, however, like to refer to a number of issues that are of particular importance to my country. The period of global transition now before us is marked by particularly contradictory signs. On the one hand, the détente that surfaced with the end of the cold war has led to an increase in regional integration and the strengthening of cooperation between States, and has brought to life the concept of complementing the activities of the United Nations with those of regional organizations and arrangements. On the other hand, violent nationalistic claims have re-emerged and old and seemingly forgotten antagonisms have resurfaced, leading to an unexpected outbreak of conflicts that threaten the internal cohesion of States and international peace and security. In this context, and more so than ever, the role of the United Nations collective security system, now back on the front line of international relations, seems decisive. For this reason, we attach great significance to the ongoing restructuring of the Secretariat. We also deem particularly important the reform of the Security Council, which has special responsibilities and is now free to accomplish its original mission and to emerge as the driving force behind the Organization’s political activities in maintaining stability and peace. Other organizations, such as the European Community, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), have, in their turn, an important role to play in consolidating democracy, maintaining stability and promoting development in the entire European region. It is essential for close cooperation to be established between those bodies and the United Nations - which has a primary and universal responsibility - so as to avoid duplication and to enhance what each can contribute to the search for peace and stability. Peace-keeping operations have recently undergone a considerable expansion, and we are witnessing the deployment of large numbers of men and women in situations of various natures, including the protection of humanitarian assistance missions and preventive diplomacy initiatives. The involvement of military contingents in those operations requires clear political aims as well as unity of command and close and permanent coordination between the Secretariat and the interested parties, namely the contributing States and those States that may be able to offer, in a constructive manner, a political contribution to the peace processes. Resolving the conflicts of today, building peace and preventing the conflicts of tomorrow will be no simple task. The demands and expectations that fall upon the United Nations have no historical precedent, and so every effort must be made to turn 'An Agenda for Peace' into a reality. Only then will the Organization be able to cope with the present and future challenges of maintaining peace, 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session giving humanitarian assistance and providing aid for development. Unfortunately, as I speak, the United Nations is confronting its greatest financial crisis in 48 years of existence and is facing the risk of not being able to assume its responsibilities in the important domain of maintaining international security. This question remains the cornerstone of the future activity of the United Nations. If it remains unanswered, the consequences for the United Nation credibility and for world peace will be dramatic. An important development that has resulted from the end of the cold war concerns respect for human rights, which are inalienable and universal and figure above all other considerations when we look at a particular political regime or model of society. We believe that it is necessary for the international community today to judge violations of human rights without double standards. In this respect, I should like to stress the importance of the final declaration of the Vienna Conference, which emphasizes fundamental ideas and principles, specifically, those that concern the responsibilities of the international community in this area and define human rights as a priority for the United Nations. With this aim, it is now urgent for the General Assembly to discuss, without delay, the establishment of the post of high commissioner for human rights. A commonality of values that reflect the dignity of the human person is an indispensable component of a better international order allowing the development of peaceful and lasting international relations. Thus, together with peace, development and democracy, we consider human rights to be one of the basic principles that should govern international society. It is precisely because of the imperatives of human solidarity, and because we believe that the international community has an important role to play, that Portugal, both as a State and as a member of the European Community, is following with deep concern the conflict that, for the last two years, has been devastating parts of the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Portugal reiterates its firm position that only a settlement accepted by the three parties can put an end to this blood-stained chapter in European history. The Portuguese Government truly regrets the interruption of the latest negotiating round in Geneva at a time when an agreement seemed within reach. We once again urge all the parties involved in the conflict to show the necessary good will and flexibility so as to put an end to the suffering of the affected populations. Portugal considers that it is extremely urgent for a viable and just peace agreement to be signed: Only thus will the conditions for a return to peace be met. Lastly, I wish to pay a tribute to the United Nations Protection Force - in which Portugal has the privilege of being included - to the European Community monitoring mission and to all humanitarian organizations operating in the area of the former Yugoslavia for the tasks they have performed under circumstances of particular hardship. Portugal, a country which is historically and culturally linked to Africa, is profoundly aware of the unparalleled, appalling and ever-deteriorating living conditions prevailing in vast regions of the continent. Today, Africa certainly deserves the international community’s special attention. It is in Africa that we should concentrate our principal efforts to end wars that are sometimes forgotten, but that are laying waste to large areas, and it is to Africa that we should be directing economic resources in quantities commensurate with the unparalleled scale of the problems it is facing. Only by increasing trade flows, economic ties and humanitarian assistance can we provide a degree of certainty for the success of democratization and progress. I should like to refer also to the utmost importance that we attach to the work of the Organization of African Unity in the search for solutions to bring an end to the conflicts that overshadow Africa. In Africa, there are five countries that officially use Portuguese. With these countries we have steadily deepened our ties in all areas. Based on a common culture and values, we are developing, together with Brazil and these African countries, a true community of Portuguese-speaking nations that is characterized by solidarity and tolerance. It was precisely because of these special ties that my Government interceded in the Angolan conflict. The mediation efforts it deployed there, together with the United States and Russia, resulted in the signing in Lisbon of the Acordos de Paz on 31 May 1991. The year and a half of peace that followed those agreements raised in all the Angolan people the legitimate expectation that almost 30 years of war were coming to an end. It also revealed Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 13 stimulating signs of economic recovery and the advent of a new era of democracy and national reconciliation. Angolans therefore participated massively in the elections of last September. The resurgence of war in Angola cause by UNITA’s failure to accept the results of the elections calls for a new effort from the international community to re-- establish the cease-fire and to safeguard the democratic process, in accordance with the legitimate wishes for peace and democracy of the Angolan people. Portugal welcomed the adoption on 15 September of Security Council resolution 864 (1993), in which the Council, in the wake of previous resolutions and under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, decided upon a set of important measures. I remain convinced that dialogue is possible, and that only through direct negotiations between the Government of Angola and UNITA can a lasting solution and a durable peace be found. I therefore once again urge UNITA to return to the negotiating table, on the basis of the Acordos de Paz and full acceptance of the outcome of the September 1992 elections and the Abidjan guidelines, which were reached with the invaluable help of President Houphouet-Boigny and the Government of Côte d’Ivoire. I applaud the peace initiatives undertaken by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, to which Portugal, together with the two other countries of the troika of observers, the United States and Russia, has given its strongest support. Only with the restoration of peace will it be possible to bring about an end to the suffering of the Angolan people and make possible the provision of the much-needed humanitarian assistance that the international community is ready to provide. In this respect, the efforts already made by the specialized agencies of the United Nations and the International Committee of the Red Cross are to be commended. Regarding Mozambique, the role of the United Nations in conducting the peace process is for us a source of satisfaction. In this context, we welcome the adoption of Security Council resolution 850 (1993), which is a sign of the Organization’s unequivocal commitment to bringing this process to a satisfactory conclusion. Portugal is deeply involved in the Mozambique peace process, not only through its active contribution to the United Nations Operation in Mozambique but also through its participation in the structures created by the General Peace Agreement and through our contributions pledged during the donors’ conference last December. We also welcome the results of the recent meeting between the President of Mozambique and the leader of RENAMO, which represented a breakthrough and gave reason for hope in a future of peace and prosperity in Mozambique. The positive outcome of that meeting, namely, the agreement on the issues of territorial administration and police, has been recognized by Security Council resolution 863 (1993), in which all parties are urged to implement without delay all the provisions of the General Peace Agreement so that the elections can be held in October 1994 at the latest. Concerning South Africa, we are following events there closely, in particular the multiparty negotiations, which we hope will meet with success and constitute the foundations of a new, multiracial reality. The withdrawal of significant forces in South African society from those negotiations is a cause for concern, and could have a negative impact on the normal course of the transition process, which, as we all hope, will end with the holding of elections next year. The spread of violence in South Africa provides a special cause for concern, as pointed out by the European Community observer mission in South Africa and the Goldstone Commission, in both of which Portugal is participating actively. We deeply regret the violence, which cannot but jeopardize the path to national reconciliation. We must stress, however, the positive aspect, namely the progress achieved with the 7 September agreement at the multiparty negotiations on the creation of the Transitional Executive Council. This was achieved by the efforts of the various parties that believe in a consensus solution for the political transition in South Africa. I should also like to refer to Mr. Nelson Mandela’s praiseworthy appeal, before the Special Committee against Apartheid, for an end to the economic sanctions imposed against South Africa, an appeal which constitutes a valuable encouragement to the process of political reform initiated by President F. W. de Klerk. Leaving now the African continent, I would say that Portugal, because of its very important legal, moral and 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session historic responsibilities in the case, continues to devote, as a matter of priority, particular attention to the question of East Timor, a Non-Self-Governing Territory recognized by the United Nations as being under Portuguese administration, its decolonization process not having been completed. I should like to reaffirm, at this rostrum, my country’s position of principle on this question: Portugal accepts in full the relevant resolutions adopted by the General Assembly and Security Council regarding East Timor. These resolutions reaffirm the need to apply, in the case of East Timor, the essential principles and rules adopted by this Organization on decolonization; those contained not only in the Charter, but in the historic resolutions 1514 (XV) and 1541 (XV) as well. The rejection of military conquest as the basis for claiming territorial enlargement, the need to respect East Timor’s territorial integrity and the right of its people to self-determination are clearly established in those resolutions. We remain firmly committed to achieving, in a peaceful and negotiated manner, a just, comprehensive and internationally acceptable settlement to this question. That settlement must not fail to meet the standards of international law and must fully respect the legitimate rights of the East Timorese, who are those most directly concerned and who have been the principal victims of this painful and long-protracted problem. I should especially like to applaud the efforts of the Secretary-General - and those of his collaborators - under whose auspices talks have been held with Indonesia aimed at settling this issue. We do recognize how very difficult this task is as a result of the wide gap between the positions of the parties on the substance of the question, which is the conclusion of the process of the decolonization of the Territory. Three rounds of discussions have already taken place at the Ministerial level, and we are in the process of adopting a set of confidence-building measures in order to improve the atmosphere of dialogue and to foster the advancement of the process. Allow me to quote, in this context, a passage of the progress report submitted, just a few days ago, by the Secretary-General to the General Assembly: 'Equally important and intrinsically linked to the peace process is the human rights situation in East Timor. The improvement of the conditions in East Timor is sine qua non to progress in the talks'. (A/48/418, para. 5) I am sorry to have to say that, unfortunately, the human rights situation prevailing in the territory continues to elicit condemnation on the part of the international community. The resolutions adopted this year by the United Nations Commission on Human Rights and by its Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities are a clear demonstration of this. We sincerely hope that steps will be taken that will bring about a tangible and genuine improvement of the situation in the territory and that this can be monitored without obstruction. I therefore call upon all Governments and human rights organizations to continue to keep a close eye on the situation in East Timor. We are witnessing events of great significance in other parts of the world. Allow me to emphasize those which merit our particular attention. Portugal remains faithful to the construction of an enlarged and strengthened Europe. We are close, therefore, to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and, guided by that objective, we propose to contribute through our participation in the framework of the European Community with a view to enhancing dialogue as well as political and economic cooperation. This approach will ensure peace, stability and economic well-being. In this context of the joint responsibility of all actors on the international scene, we should encourage the ongoing political and economic reforms in the States that have emerged from the collapse of the former Soviet Union aimed at a peaceful evolution towards democratic societies based on the rule of law and fundamental human rights. We support their progressive integration into the international economy, which will prevent the political division of the past from being replaced with a new economic gap. Allow me to salute at this point President Yeltsin for his courage and determination to carry on without interruption the process of political and economic reform that is indispensable for the complete democratization and development of the Russian Federation. We lend our unequivocal support to all the efforts made by the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) and the United Nations - which constitute a good test for cooperation between regional organizations and the United Nations - to reach peaceful settlements to the disputes that have arisen on the territory of the former Soviet Union. Regarding nuclear arms control and disarmament, Portugal considers the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 15 Nuclear Weapons to be an instrument of major importance, and looks forward to its indefinite extension at the 1995 Review Conference. Portugal urges all the parties that have not yet done so to ratify it, and reiterates the need for all the nuclear-weapon States that have emerged from the former Soviet Union to implement and comply with the obligations resulting from the START I and START II Treaties and the Lisbon Protocol. At this point, allow me to stress the importance my Government attaches to the work of the Conference on Disarmament, to which my country has recently presented its candidature for full membership. I wish to refer here to the current negotiations that are seeking to conclude the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade talks. While we hope for their successful conclusion, which we consider to be fundamental for the world economy, we also believe that the result should reflect a global and balanced solution based on an opening of markets and a reinforcement of the rules of international trade. I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Government of Israel and the leaders of the Palestine Liberation Organization for the realism, lucidity, courage and also imagination they displayed with the conclusion of the recent agreement, which represents a historic step towards the achievement of a just, lasting and comprehensive peace for the Middle East based upon the relevant resolutions of the United Nations. The agreement will certainly lend a new and encouraging vitality to the peace process in both its bilateral and multilateral tracks, irreversibly consolidating the latest developments. Geographical proximity and historic and cultural ties justify the genuine attention with which my country is following the evolution of the situation in the Maghreb. Portugal has stressed, within the European Community and in other international forums, the importance of that region to security and stability in the Mediterranean. In this sense, the declaration of the Heads of State and Government at the Lisbon meeting of the Council of Europe set out a new approach to a political, economic, social and cultural dialogue between the European Community and the Maghreb. Portugal has centuries-old relations of friendship with Latin America. Our special relationship with Brazil cannot be overemphasized. We are therefore in a position, in the spirit of the recent Ibero-American Summit in Salvador da Bahia, to enhance dialogue and cooperation with this region. In this respect, I should like to stress the importance we attach to an agenda for development in the advancement of a constructive and effective dialogue aimed at identifying and exploring new forms of solidarity in encouraging international cooperation for development. In respect of the activities of the European Community, we have been striving to strengthen European ties with Latin America, through the San José process and the Rio group, by encouraging the efforts - which have already made progress possible - aimed at increasing respect for democratic institutions and human rights and developing new forms of economic integration. I should also like to mention the current negotiations on the preservation of natural resources and the maintenance of environmental balance. The obligations of States go beyond the mere signature of multilateral treaties. At stake is a legacy to future generations of sufficient, conserved and renewable resources to ensure their well-being. All efforts in that direction deserve the commitment of the international community as a whole, through the implementation of policies of a continental or even global scope. The Rio Conference was merely a step on the long road to convincing the world of the need to preserve the environment and to maintain the balance between the means of production and the human component without resorting to destruction and waste. It is now important to put into practice the decisions of the Rio Conference in order to give expression to the measures decided on there. Portugal will not fail to do its part, in the full realization that only then shall we be able to build a future for coming generations. At this point in its history, the United Nations is facing an unprecedented opportunity and, for the first time, can play the role originally intended for it, without restriction, in the resolution of conflicts and the maintenance of international stability and as the custodian of respect for human rights. We are all committed to providing a positive contribution to meeting this challenge. Portugal, for its part, will do everything possible to achieve these ambitious goals. Before beginning my statement, may I on behalf of the Government and the people of Malta express our profound solidarity with the Government and the people of India and with the families of the victims of the massive earthquake which has claimed the lives of thousands and left tens of thousands injured and homeless. Mr. President, I wish to congratulate you on your unanimous election to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. You bring to this important post a wealth of professional experience and personal qualities which will undoubtedly make their mark in the coming weeks and months. In recent years the office of the presidency of the General Assembly has reasserted its rightful role and relevance in the light of the momentous events that are occurring in our time. We have always considered the presidency of the Assembly as relevant to the structure and performance of our Organization. The role of the President, in our view, should be not only to preside over the Assembly, but also to represent it and to speak on its behalf on the basis of its decisions and resolutions. The United Nations system, with the General Assembly at its very centre, is increasingly becoming the effective focal point of international life, as its founders intended. The responsibilities entrusted to the presidency of the Assembly in this context are therefore both challenging and unique. You are, Mr. President, taking over your new responsibilities from a predecessor who accomplished his task with resourcefulness and success. I wish to take this 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session opportunity to express our appreciation to outgoing President Ganev for his contribution to the revitalization process of the General Assembly. Earlier this year President Ganev visited Malta on the occasion of the conference we sponsored jointly with the United Nations on the subject of Foreign Ministries in transition. Within this context, may I welcome those States that joined our Organization during the forty-seventh session, adding a further dimension to the global representation and responsibilities of the General Assembly. When the United Nations was founded 51 States were signatories to the Charter. Today membership of the United Nations has reached 184. Circumstances have changed, roles have changed and personalities have changed. However, the fundamentals of this Organization remain unaltered. Though situations may at times tempt us to re-invent the wheel, the requirements of the United Nations are evolutionary in concept, answering to the dynamism of world events, calling for our response to altered situations. This makes it impellent to move towards a second-generation United Nations which is strong in its resourcefulness and sensitive to the need for its own revitalization. A review of some of this year’s international events reflects the acceptance of the United Nations as a guarantor of peace, able not only to withstand problems as they arise, but also to absorb its own failures and mistakes. Events in former Yugoslavia reflect not only the legacies of a past still present, but also the difficult nature of bringing the parties to an agreement at the negotiating table when so much blood has been shed, so much suffering inflicted and crimes against man’s most cherished values committed. Operation 'Restore Hope' in Somalia did not fully realize this hope. Indeed, a series of events and mishaps has contributed to the loss of life of valiant soldiers of the United Nations peace-keeping forces as well as the lives of many members of the civilian population. A message of incomprehension has taken over the city of Mogadishu. Developments in Cambodia, on the other hand, are a positive manifestation of the growing effectiveness of the United Nations in its peace-keeping role - an area to which the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has dedicated so much energy and commitment to ensure the well-being of so many millions living under the threat of conflict. The signing of the declaration of principles by the Israelis and the Palestinians is a rainbow for the Middle East. It could well lead to a covenant of peace, breaking a circle of hatred and the legacy of death which has lasted for decades. 'I believe that these two peoples, victims of the adversities of history, require the solidarity and involvement of all who can help in moulding events towards peace in the region.' (A/45/1000, para. 95) This was one of the conclusions that I drew in reporting back to the Assembly, as its President, following my visit to the occupied territories in those bleak days of the first weeks of January 1991. I commented that 'The Arab-lsraeli conflict has a dimension which goes far beyond the territory of Palestine. It involves not only the States in the region, the security concept of the Mediterranean, the relations with Europe and the super-Powers, but it also has an effect on the credibility of the United Nations and the political will behind its resolutions.' (ibid, para. 89) At the time we tried to explain to both the Israelis and the Palestinians that living in peace with one’s neighbour brings that international environment, with secure and guaranteed frontiers, that all States in the region, including Israel, need so much to safeguard their future. In conclusion I stated that the purpose of the visit - the first ever by a President of the Assembly - 'was intended to pave the way for those who, conscious of their political responsibilities, can help in contributing towards a lasting peace, which will give to the peoples in the region man’s most coveted gift; peace in freedom.' (ibid, para. 98) One must give credit, in this context, to the receptive understanding of the then Secretary of State James Baker, with whom I had discussed my visit shortly after my return. With consummate diplomacy, he activated the Madrid process, leading to a dialogue approach long absent between the parties. The leaders of Israel and of the Palestinians have shown moral courage which will, when pursued, send a message of hope not only to the peoples of the region but to many others who have endured long conflicts and seek the road to peace. Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 13 Developments in South Africa have also been encouraging. Important progress has been made in dismantling the condemned policy of apartheid and in bringing together the various communities. Malta is pleased to see that this progress has reached the stage at which South Africa can fully return to the fold of the international community as a respected member, mindful of its obligations both at home and abroad. We agree that the lifting of economic sanctions at this stage can and should encourage and assist the people of South Africa in completing their journey on the difficult road to genuine freedom, dignity and justice. The approaching fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations provides an ideal opportunity for the international community to take an in-depth look at the means at its disposal in carrying out its endeavours for peace, security and prosperity. This anniversary must be seen as an act of regeneration. It will highlight the universal richness and diversity of an institution which now encompasses practically the whole of mankind; it will rightly bring to the fore its qualities of resilience and perseverance, which have been tested and demonstrated time and again over the half century; it will rightly recall the successes achieved over the years, in spite of often daunting difficulties; and it will salute the many individuals who have faithfully served, and continue to serve, a few with great visibility and prominence, most others quietly and silently, out of the limelight. The process of regeneration must apply both to institutions and to objectives. Central to the institutional aspect is the role of the General Assembly. As past President, I remain personally deeply involved and committed to the revitalization of this Assembly. Even today, the international community has yet to fully exploit the uniqueness and relevance of the General Assembly. This is the only global forum where all States are full and permanent Members; where all States, regardless of size, power or wealth, have an equal and sovereign say; where all issues, political, economic, social, cultural or humanitarian, can be considered in their entirety and their inter-relatedness; and where the process of decision-making is at the same time a process of consensus-building. The Assembly is not, and cannot be seen as, in a contest or competition with any other organ of the United Nations system. Its role is unique and pre-eminent, and its deliberations can only facilitate, enrich and, as appropriate, consolidate the decisions of other organs. Some progress has already been achieved in improving the efficient functioning of the General Assembly. The recent adoption of resolution 47/233 is the most recent and welcome development. We must of course constantly remind ourselves that there has to be a clear purpose behind moves towards efficiency. In the case of the General Assembly, the purpose lies essentially in enhancing the effectiveness and relevance of its deliberative and consensusbuilding role, thus adding to its capacity to follow up and implement its decisions. Mr. Fajardo Maldonado (Guatemala), Vice-President, took the Chair. The size, composition and methods of operation of the Security Council have in recent years become subjects of intensive debate and sometimes speculation. The Council is a unique tool in the search for peace and security. It is a blend of the idealistic and the pragmatic; it is at one and the same time a deliberative and a functional organ. The lifting of the cold war’s constraints has had a most visible and creative impact, releasing and galvanizing the Council’s peacemaking and peace-keeping roles. Efforts to enlarge the Council and expand its functions must come within the framework envisaged for the Council under the Charter. However, Malta shares with all other United Nations Members the legitimate expectation of transparency and objectivity as the hallmark of the Council’s work. The Council must remain conscious of the impact its decisions, especially the imposition of sanctions, could have on third parties. It is important to link the application of sanctions to a compensatory system for those countries which, through no fault of their own, have to bear the burden and pay the price of sanctions. When deciding to deploy United Nations forces, the Council must also be conscious of its responsibility for the safety and well-being both of the forces it deploys and of the inhabitants of the areas concerned. In all its actions, the Council must be inspired by the fundamental peacemaking dimension of its mandate and by the Charter’s emphasis on the peaceful settlement of disputes. One of the important objectives of any enlargement of the Council’s membership must be to ensure balance and equity in its composition in terms of the present level of United Nations membership. Account must be taken of regional and geographical considerations; of the need to create reasonable opportunities for all United Nations Members to take their turn in serving on it; and of considerations relating to the size and status of individual United Nations Members. 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session An aspect that requires redefining in its application is that of regional responsibility for peace-keeping under Chapter VIII of the Charter. At the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) Helsinki Follow-Up Meeting, Malta’s proposal that the CSCE declare itself the regional arrangement in the sense of Chapter VIII of the Charter was endorsed by the Helsinki Summit II. We think that through similar arrangements at the regional levels, peace-keeping operations may be more efficiently and economically dealt with by countries which, because of their regional obligations, can assume further responsibilities. This trend has already been manifesting itself in recent years, and one can only hope that it will be further applied and consolidated. We believe that the concept of collective security depends on the evaluation of a number of factors. This must necessarily be coupled with an ever-increasing acceptance by nations that investment in collective security should in part be substituted for expenditure on national security. Within these parameters, it is essential that nations make forces available for peace-keeping purposes and ensure that they are adequately trained. Articles 43 and 45 of the Charter, which have never yet been applied, must be examined to see to what extent they respond to today’s needs. The concept of human rights has to continue to prevail in our discussions. Malta supports the proposal of having a United Nations high commissioner for human rights. We consider the recent establishment of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia to be a pledge that heinous crimes against humanity will not remain unpunished. However, we believe that the establishment of an international criminal court with jurisdiction to try crimes against humanity, war crimes, international terrorism and global traffic in narcotics will provide an institutional concept for dealing with the international dimension of such offences. In examining the institutional structure of the United Nations, we are repeatedly struck by the continuing absence of a capacity within the system to deal globally and comprehensively with the multiple issues of development. Over the last five decades the Bretton Woods institutions have played a major role in the areas of money and finance. However, a more significant relationship must be built between the United Nations and these institutions. The central capacity originally envisaged for the Economic and Social Council to bring together the underlying issues common to all the various facets of the development debate has remained equally elusive. This applies particularly with regard to entrenched disequilibrium, to the availability and allocation of financial resources, to technical assistance and to the far-reaching and often very sensitive aspects of sustainable development. Within the context of the concept of a secondgeneration United Nations we have made a proposal to activate further and give an added role to the Trusteeship Council. The Council has served the Organization in dealing with Territories in its trust, most of which are today valid Members of the United Nations. Its present diminished relevance is in fact a reflection of its own success. Yet the concept of trusteeship lies at the very core of the United Nations. We believe that the Trusteeship Council should hold in trust for humanity areas affecting common concerns and common heritage. It could have a monitoring function on the protection of the environment, extraterritorial zones, climate and - of paramount importance - the rights of future generations. These we hold in trust for humanity, and the Trusteeship Council can be the depositary. Malta has always seen its active involvement and participation at the regional level in Europe as an indispensable dimension of its role as a member of the international community. We have consistently defined our objective of becoming a member of the European Community as a logical and natural culmination of our European vocation. This definition is rooted in Malta’s political, social and economic realities, as they have been shaped by our historical and cultural heritage. Malta has also consistently played an active role in the other European institutions which, together with the European Community, have contributed to the formation of a modern European consciousness. We see our role in the Council of Europe and in the CSCE as an expression and reinforcement of our deepest commitment to the dignity and freedom of the individual in society. We attach equal importance to the value of democratic principles and parliamentary practices, respect for sovereignty and mutual understanding between nations, respect for legality at both national and international levels and the need for improved international cooperation relating to both security and development. Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 15 It is only natural that Malta attaches relevance to the Mediterranean region, a region suffering the turmoil of problems in its midst. The importance of having its environment safeguarded, the relevance of its sea routes and its strategic role in linking three continents are all factors with consequences which go far beyond the boundaries of the region. Aware of this, Malta has shown continued interest and involvement in promoting Mediterranean cooperation. We have supported the idea of a conference on security and cooperation in the Mediterranean, and we have proposed the establishment of a council for the Mediterranean to be a forum for political, economic and social dialogue for the region. It was stimulating to hear President Clinton speak from this podium of dreaming 'new dreams in this age when miracles seem possible'. (A/48/PV.4) We all have our dreams for the future. Countries, large and small, rich and poor, dream of a future based on the betterment of peoples, international solidarity, mutual understanding and peace - peace in freedom. We who have the responsibility of guiding nations have to dream beyond the confines of our States and start genuinely believing in the brotherhood of man. We have to think that frontiers are not barriers, but signposts leading to a break-up of longstanding prejudices and great divides. In this age when miracles are possible, when man has conquered space, let us dream of yet other miracles: that the 1.1 billion people living in extreme poverty will have their daily bread; that the slaughter of the innocents, the tens of thousands of children dying every day because of malnutrition and lack of adequate medicine, will stop; that the millions of refugees who wander from camp to camp, uprooted from their milieu, will return to their homes; that the billions and billions of dollars spent on weapons of destruction will be dedicated to hospital research to safeguard life; and that learning will be extended to all and that the dignity of work will be denied to none. These dreams of miracles can come true. They are not just dreams. The political will of the international community and the dedication of many people to this cause can turn dreams into reality. This is our agenda for peace. We can turn it into an agenda for peoples. At the outset, it is my pleasure to extend to you, Sir, my sincere felicitations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. In discharging your important duties, you can count on the support and cooperation of my delegation. Your wide experience and diplomatic skills are a valuable asset for the success of this important session of the General Assembly. This is the first time that my country, the Republic of Macedonia, is attending a session of the General Assembly as an independent State committed to making its full contribution to the enhancement of world peace and the promotion of international cooperation. The Republic of Macedonia is a country with foreign policies based on the principles of peace, friendship and cooperation. We see the interdependence of interests and mutual respect as the future of successful international cooperation. An important element of our foreign policy is to promote good-neighbourly relations and to incorporate the principles of the new European architecture in the crisis-ridden region of the Balkans. Such a foreign policy is consistent with the internal development of the Republic of Macedonia, which is oriented towards a market economy, democracy, a State of law, human rights and harmony in inter-ethnic relations. By attaining its independence in a peaceful and legitimate manner, the Republic of Macedonia has kept the peace and forestalled a spill-over of the war into the southern Balkans. The comprehensive efforts of the past two years have changed our historic position from a bone of contention to a factor for peace and stability in the Balkans. Pursuant to this, the endeavours of the delegation of the Republic of Macedonia in the course of this session will be aimed at strict compliance with the United Nations Charter; support for all measures that enhance international peace and security; the democratization of international relations in all spheres; the advancement of human rights and freedoms to the utmost degree; the promotion and development of a policy of good-neighbourly relations; forestalling the proliferation and use of weapons of mass destruction; and the enhancement of preventive diplomacy in settling disputes. The adverse situation of the world today is a source of concern to all of us. We are not fully satisfied with the efforts of our Organization nor especially with the results it has achieved in resolving current sources of tension. We accept the assertion that the world today is not threatened by a new world war and that the use of nuclear arms is not very likely. But the fact remains that the number of serious and potential military conflicts is increasing. The efforts of our Organization to find peaceful solutions have been enormous. Regrettably, the results have not always been productive, owing to a certain extent to the absence of a wider implementation of preventive diplomatic measures and activities. I take this opportunity to emphasize the extraordinary significance of the historical accord between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization for peace in the Middle East and the development of world relations. All those who have contributed to its signing deserve our special recognition. In this context, I am deeply convinced that, despite all difficulties, we will soon be speaking of South Africa as a region of successful development and human dignity. Let us hope that the forces of peace in that region will ultimately prevail over the forces of regression and apartheid. I must reiterate our deep concern over the perpetuation of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the threat of a spill-over and a wider destabilization of our region. In dead earnest we, a country situated in the immediate vicinity, see this as the threat of an all-out Balkan war. The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is extremely grave, tragic and incomprehensible. The most terrible post-cold-war drama is unfolding in the heart of Europe: massive killings, massive destruction, over 2 million refugees, insane acts of ethnic cleansing and genocide. Numerous international conferences and activities have been undertaken in order to bring an end to this war. The Security Council has adopted numerous resolutions. Let us all hope that peace in Bosnia will finally become a reality. An end to the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a first and essential step. However, permanent peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina will not be possible without compliance with, and upholding of, the fundamental principles of international law, the United Nations Charter and the principles of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), namely that borders cannot be changed by force; that the international community does not recognize or accept 'ethnic cleansing'; and that the rights of minorities must be respected. Without these preconditions, not only will permanent peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina be impossible, but a precedent will be set which will incite new conflicts. To condone the use of force and military superiority for territorial expansion and redrawn borders would exacerbate other, less heated, tensions, especially in the ethnically mixed Balkans and the countries of Eastern Europe. It would in fact mean condoning the potential for permanent inter-ethnic wars. Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 3 The Republic of Macedonia is vitally interested in seeing an end to the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, forestalling a spill-over and attaining peace on lasting foundations. For these reasons, and out of concern for our own security and for peace and stability in the region, we have undertaken a number of timely preventive measures in cooperation with the United Nations. In this context, I would like to stress the key role played by Security Council resolution 795 (1992) of December 1992 for the deployment of a contingent from the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) in the Republic of Macedonia. The decision of the Security Council, to which the Secretary- General made a great contribution, has proved to be justified, timely and efficient. It has demonstrated the enormous advantages of preventive diplomacy. The peace-keeping forces of the United Nations, strengthened by the United States contingent, are of great importance for our security and for sustaining peace and stability in the region. Our cooperation with these forces is exemplary, and it will remain so in the future. This step has greatly increased the feelings of security and trust in the peace-keeping activities of the United Nations on the part of the citizens of the Republic of Macedonia. As a country and as a people, our permanent interest lies in peace and cooperation in the Balkans. In the same spirit, our efforts are aimed at establishing good- neighbourly relations with all our neighbours and at resolving all existing problems with our southern neighbour. The war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the implementation of United Nations sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro, and the remains of bloc divisions prevalent until recently prevent the Balkans from functioning on natural regional principles. Economic and cultural ties, communications, the free flow of people, goods and ideas have practically been severed. This is indeed a depressing situation. In order to prepare for the twenty-first century and a Europe of open borders and cooperation, it is essential that the Balkans undergo major changes. This is in the interest of all the peoples and all the countries in this region. Those are the reasons why Macedonia has adopted policies of good-neighbourly relations, peaceful settlement of problems and development of overall economic, political and cultural cooperation among the countries of the Balkans. We are truly convinced that, in the interest of peace and stability, the international community will ardently support these processes in the Balkans. The principles of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe and the processes within the European Community are the only options for peace, stability and economic revival in the Balkans. However, this also implies that all the Balkan States, which have chosen the European option, must be enabled to achieve gradual integration into the European Community. We are all dissatisfied with the stagnation of the world economy in the past year, the deterioration of the economic situation in the world, and the economic situation in certain countries and regions. The number of people affected by unemployment, poverty and hunger is on the rise. For developed countries, recovery from the recession has been slower than expected, hindering their increased participation in the development of the developing countries and countries in transition. Because of this situation, and because of our firm conviction that the period after the cold war must not grow into a period of economic conflicts, we believe that much more can be done to seek a way out of the world’s current economic and social difficulties. In this context, I am convinced that the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly will serve as firm encouragement for an increase in world demand and for liberalization of world trade. A very important prerequisite for the realization of this goal is the successful outcome of the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) negotiations, encouraged by the Tokyo summit. It is also essential to resolve the issue of arrears and that of access by developing countries and countries in transition to international financial markets. All of these activities support the view that only development generates new development, while stagnation brings only regression and poverty. Enhanced protection of human rights is justifiably receiving greater priority in the work of our Organization. We are concerned by the fact that in the past year, violations of human rights have reached epidemic proportions. We feel that the Vienna Conference on Human Rights is a very positive step in the right direction, and we hope that the Declaration and Action Programme adopted at that Conference will contribute greatly to ending the unfavourable developments in this area today. The negotiations in Vienna have clearly shown that current mechanisms for implementing existing human-rights instruments are not efficient, and that much improvement is needed, particularly in the rights of ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities. A significant step in this direction has been taken by the adoption last year of the Declaration on minorities. The next steps which our delegation will support are the commencement of operations of the Commission on Human Rights according to the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities, and an examination of the need for 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session setting up a United Nations high commission for minorities, with headquarters in Geneva. I would like to point out that all unresolved issues involving ethnic minorities can well lead to future military conflicts, particularly in certain regions of the world, thus endangering international peace. Hence it is essential to take immediate preventive measures in this area as well. The Republic of Macedonia is a European country in transition, a landlocked country, a country of transit and a developing country. These factors contribute to the economic difficulties of my country. The situation is further complicated by the consequences of the United Nations sanctions imposed on Serbia and Montenegro. I would immediately like to emphasize that we have strictly complied with the implementation of the sanctions. As a result, this year alone, our gross national product has been cut in half. External trade has been reduced considerably, transport costs have increased immensely, and other indirect damage has occurred as well. Today, the survival, democracy and economic development of the Republic of Macedonia are fundamentally dependent on assistance from the international community. Otherwise, it is very possible that social tensions, and the probable collapse of the economy, will bring about a new crisis spot. I am deeply convinced that, in accordance with Article 50 of the Charter and Security Council resolution 820 (1993), the United Nations and the Security Council will be in a position to provide us with concrete forms of assistance. It is inconceivable to expect a small country to bear the damage of an international action of this type on its own, without solidarity and timely assistance. Aid should be provided now as a preventive measure, instead of after the outbreak of those likely social clashes which may grow into new conflicts. In this spirit, the delegation of the Republic of Macedonia at this session will lay out our direct proposals regarding the problem of compensation for damage incurred as a result of implementing the sanctions, the problems deriving from the position of landlocked countries, and other issues related to peace and cooperation. The strengthening of the United Nations in all aspects, in the post-cold-war period, is of vital importance to the Republic of Macedonia. My country belongs to a group of countries that can survive and develop only in conditions without war, in a world where peace and stability are not threatened, where international cooperation will be conducted without obstacles and discrimination, and a world where everyone will have respect for human dignity. In this context, the delegation of the Republic of Macedonia will make its full contribution to the successful work of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly and to strengthening the Organization. On behalf of the Government and the people of Thailand, may I extend my warmest congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I am confident that you will provide the Assembly with the necessary leadership and direction in this period of systemic change in the international order. I also wish to congratulate Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria for having guided the forty-seventh session of the Assembly to a successful conclusion. Allow me also to express our admiration to and support for Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali for his untiring efforts in guiding the United Nations through this period, when the Organization is being called upon to undertake peace-keeping activities around the globe on a scale unprecedented in its history. I also wish to congratulate him on his vision, so lucidly expressed in his report, 'An Agenda for Peace.' We look forward with anticipation to his forthcoming report on an agenda for development. It is with great pleasure that we welcome, as full Members of the United Nations, Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, Monaco, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and the Slovak Republic. We sincerely believe that these States’ assumption of their rightful places in the family of nations will further strengthen the universal character of the United Nations. Before proceeding further, may I, on behalf of the Government and the people of Thailand, convey profound sympathy to and express solidarity with the Government and the people of India following the massive destruction and loss of life that resulted from the devastating earthquake last week. With the end of the cold war, a new spirit of friendly cooperation prevails in South-East Asia. The international settlement of the Cambodian problem means that, for the first time in recent memory, the region is free of major armed conflict. With a view to constructing a new regional order of peace, harmony and prosperity, we the countries of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) are seeking to intensify various cooperative efforts among ourselves and with our neighbours and our friends outside the region. ASEAN was born in Bangkok more than 26 years ago, when the cold war was at its height. Now, at the end of the cold war, ASEAN has attained the political and economic standing to play a greater role in the affairs of the region and beyond. Thailand will assume the ASEAN chairmanship this year, and it looks forward to working with all concerned, both within and outside the Association, to advance the causes of peace and prosperity in South-East Asia. As the ASEAN member geographically closest to the rest of South-East Asia, Thailand is in a unique position to serve as a bridge to our non-ASEAN neighbours. Thus, my Government wholeheartedly welcomes the accession by the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam and the Lao People’s Democratic Republic to the ASEAN Treaty of Amity and Cooperation, which sets the broad framework for enhanced cooperation in South-East Asia. We earnestly hope that the day is not too distant when Laos and Viet Nam, together 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session with Cambodia, which is on the path towards rejoining the international community, will become full members of ASEAN. In seizing the opportunity to help to forge a new regional order of cooperative peace and common prosperity, ASEAN is increasingly appreciative of the function of multilateral diplomacy - particularly the enhanced cooperation between ASEAN and the United Nations. For well over a decade, Cambodia has commanded the attention of the world. ASEAN and the United Nations have been working closely with each other to secure a durable political settlement of the Cambodian problem. In Cambodia, the United Nations has just undertaken one of the most comprehensive peace-keeping operations in its history. The Organization - essentially through the United Nations Transition Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) - must be congratulated for organizing the massive repatriation of Cambodian refugees from neighbouring Thailand and the crucial elections that resulted in the creation of a democratically elected majority Government in Cambodia, thus enhancing the prospect of national reconciliation. I should like to express my Government’s appreciation to Mr. Yasushi Akashi, to his colleagues and to the men and women of UNTAC for successfully fulfilling their mission of helping to restore peace to Cambodia. Above all, our warmest congratulations go to the courageous Cambodian people themselves and, in particular, to His Majesty Samdech Norodom Sihanouk for his vital role in the restoration of the Cambodian nation. Besides facilitating the return of more than 300,000 Cambodians to their homeland, Thailand had cooperated with the United Nations from the outset. We participated in the mine-clearing and road-building operations in western Cambodia, and, as I speak, Thailand is working closely with UNTAC in implementing the withdrawal of the remaining UNTAC personnel. Thailand will continue to participate in the international community’s efforts to rehabilitate Cambodia. To this end, we welcome the success of the International Conference on the Reconstruction of Cambodia that was held in Paris in September this year. With the return of peace and normality to Cambodia, we are confident that the country will resume its rightful place in the South- East Asian family of nations. Thailand pledges its friendship and cooperation to the newly elected Government of Cambodia as it embarks on the path of nation-building. In the post-cold-war world, the changing concept of security provides further impetus for the regional role of the United Nations. In the present era, security is defined in far broader terms than in the past. In particular, the non-military aspect of security has assumed greater urgency than, and now takes precedence over, its military dimension. It is now seen more as a confidence-building process than as a process of either defence or deterrence. Activities to 'reassure' other parties, political dialogue and similar arrangements to engender and enhance mutual understanding, mutually beneficial collaborative efforts to solve common problems, crisis-management mechanisms and other preventive measures could all be subsumed under the heading of security. Such a concept of security, particularly at the regional level, fits in well with the preventive-diplomacy approach. This is one area in which there is potential for the United Nations to define its role as being to strengthen and facilitate regional cooperation and understanding. Naturally, all efforts in this regard must be undertaken within a multilateral framework. The collaborative agenda for preventive diplomacy would include conflict forecasting, conflict avoidance or prevention, conflict management, and the prevention of conflict escalation. In this regard, my Government welcomes the Secretary-General’s excellent and comprehensive report 'An Agenda for Peace', which represents new thinking and an innovative approach to strengthening the role of the United Nations. Moreover, my Government is heartened by the enthusiasm that Member States have shown for the report. Our next step must be full and speedy implementation of the recommendations put forward in the report, as well as those contained in various Security Council documents and in General Assembly resolution 47/120, which was adopted at the last session. A mature and self-confident ASEAN is in a singular position to enhance the role and effectiveness of the United Nations in South-East Asia - particularly in the areas of preventive diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-keeping and peace-building. In the aftermath of the cold war, the success of the United Nations depends very much on close cooperation with countries in target regions. Put simply, the United Nations needs all the help it can get. Regional organizations can help to identify potential conflicts and, together with the United Nations, contain them before they erupt. Cooperation between the United Nations and a regional organization with a solid track record - such as ASEAN - can compensate for the weaknesses of any organization acting singly. To explore how best the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) could act in accordance with the recommendations contained in 'An Agenda for Peace', Forty-eighth session - 6 October 1993 11 Thailand has initiated and organized, in collaboration with our ASEAN partner Singapore, a series of international workshops on ASEAN-United Nations cooperation for peace and preventive diplomacy. The rationale behind this initiative is simple enough. The threat to international peace, actual or potential, often arises out of a certain specific region. With cold-war constraints on United Nations regional intervention removed, the Organization is in an ideal position to cooperate with ASEAN to ensure peace and stability in South-East Asia. The foundation for such cooperation already exists. The ASEAN Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in South-East Asia forms the basis for a new code of conduct in the region and was endorsed by the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. Other factors may also favour United Nations preventive diplomacy in South-East Asia. One of these is the regional presence of the major Powers. Under certain circumstances, the United Nations provides a framework for action by major Powers. A case in point is Japan’s peace-keeping role in the region under the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia. Arrangements could thus be made for these nations to play a 'legitimate' crisis-prevention role involving, for example, political dialogue and mediation. Similarly, the regional economic development imperative may add impetus to United Nations regional involvement. The Organization has long been in place in South-East Asia in this regard. Its development commitments to and development efforts in the region have been evident in the location there of various United Nations regional bodies. The next step will be to work out specific functional arrangements for ASEAN-United Nations cooperation. It is anticipated that the third and final workshop, to be held in Bangkok in January 1994, will come up with suggestions on appropriate mechanisms for fostering the conditions for regional peace and prosperity through closer cooperation between ASEAN and the United Nations. The improved outlook for greater economic cooperation in the region is manifest in the enthusiasm for economic networking. Within ASEAN we have set up the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA) to intensify intra-ASEAN economic cooperation and attract outside investment. The countries of South-East Asia are taking up the challenge of forging economic linkages through various schemes known as 'growth triangles', 'growth quadrangles' and 'special economic zones'. These linkages will help further promote the spirit of friendship and cooperation and serve to provide a nucleus for greater interaction with other parts of the world. A livable world is a world in which governmental development strategies can be implemented in a favourable international environment. The international economy must provide a supportive climate for achieving environment and development goals. Among others, we must further pursue the liberalization of global trade policies, promote the efficient allocation of the world’s resources, make trade and environment mutually compatible, and provide adequate financial and technical resources to developing countries. These measures are prerequisites for creating a more prosperous world, where countries share their wealth in a liberal trading system and where fair competition is guaranteed by broadly accepted rules. For this reason, my Government believes that an early and successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round is imperative to revitalizing world trade. Thailand joins our ASEAN partners in welcoming the renewed determination and commitment of the industrialized countries at the recent Group of Seven meeting in Tokyo to resolve remaining problems and to conclude the Round by the end of this year. Balanced world development is not only an enlightened aim, it is the foundation for the enduring progress of all societies. And this should be the basis for reactivating North-South cooperation. It should mark a new beginning in international development cooperation based on the principle of the Cartagena commitments. It must go beyond aid to embrace partnership and reciprocal responsibilities. It must address global and regional concerns by meeting local needs. The global consensus reached at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro last year has equipped us to take collective action to meet new priorities. We have built the consensus to pursue development which goes beyond economic growth. It is development in a comprehensive sense, guided by principles of equality and justice, and underpinned by social and ecological responsibility. As we, the leaders, proclaim change, we must demonstrate our political conviction through national policies that are in line with the international consensus. My Government is fully committed to the implementation of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) agreement. Our national development plan for 1992 to 1996 reflects our determination to achieve sustainable development. My 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Government has taken various necessary administrative and legal steps to integrate the environment with development and to implement the programme of action as reflected in Agenda 21. As my Government is the first elected Government following the May incident of 1992, we are more keenly aware of the intimate links between democracy, development, and human rights. Hence, democratization must be accompanied by sustained efforts to further the cause of human dignity and freedom. Forty-five years ago, Thailand joined the international community in adopting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Since then, the international community has achieved a number of positive results in the protection and promotion of human rights. From the time of the first International Conference on Human Rights in Teheran in 1968, the international community has assumed new responsibilities not only to protect but also to promote human rights. The time has come to work on the prevention of human rights abuses. Last June, the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna concluded with a consensus document. The Vienna Declaration brings together views on fundamental rights, and serves as a universal basis from which the international community will proceed. Thailand reaffirms its commitment to and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms as set out in the Vienna Declaration and Plan of Action. The task before us now is to implement the recommendations of the Conference. In this regard, the United Nations has a central role to play. The Organization, with the collective efforts of its Member States, must strengthen the mechanisms for allocating sufficient human and financial resources to carry out the activities required of it. Before I conclude, may I emphasize that Thailand has been fortunate enough to have the benefit of the guidance and wisdom of their Majesties the King and Queen in all spheres of national life. Indeed, our monarchy has been the symbol of national unity, a beacon of hope and the ultimate source of strength in the hearts of all Thai people. Mr. President, let me conclude my statement by wishing you every success in your new responsibilities. You have a long and important session of the General Assembly ahead of you. I have no doubt that you will fulfil your responsibilities with great dignity and distinction. Before I begin my statement, I should like to extend, on behalf of the Government and people of Malaysia, our deepest condolences to India for the devastating earthquake that resulted in the loss of thousands of lives and massive destruction of property. I would like to join other speakers in extending my congratulations to Mr. Insanally on his election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. His election to that important office is an honour to his country, with which Malaysia enjoys warm and friendly relations. With his experience and ability, I am confident that he will discharge his responsibilities well and lead this Assembly to a successful conclusion of its work. I would also like to express my appreciation of his predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, who discharged his duties with dedication and earnestness and successfully guided the efforts to revitalize the work of the General Assembly. I also take this opportunity to welcome, on behalf of Malaysia, the six countries which have joined the United Nations since last fall: Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, Monaco, the Slovak Republic and The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Their membership will help to strengthen the United Nations in the execution of its increasingly complex role in the maintenance of international peace and security and the promotion of international economic cooperation. Malaysia is a developing third world country. We should, according to the stereotypical Western concept of a third world country, be politically unstable, administratively incompetent and economically depressed. But we are not quite typical. We have actually made progress. We are 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session quite stable despite a multiracial time bomb we inherited from our colonial past. We are fairly competent in the running of our affairs. Such is our progress that we actually contemplate building buildings which should be the preserves of our betters. And we dare to speak our minds. These are unforgivable sins and we are for ever being reminded that we should not be too ambitious. We are told that our achievements are temporary, that next year we will go the way of their preconception of third world countries. Of course, last year and the years before we were told the same. But so far we have not obliged. We are, however, humbly aware that nothing is permanent. Our detractors may yet prove right. That we do well and are not in dire need of their development aid is apparently not praiseworthy. Yet, when other developing countries perform badly they are chastised and told to do better or they will get no more aid or loans. But we will soldier on. We really should not care about what is said of us. Unfortunately, these negative remarks make life that much more difficult for us. We need foreign investments and to get them we need a reputation for stability, competence and predictability. But when investors are told repeatedly that we are about to explode in racial violence, and so on, they are likely to invest elsewhere. Of course, what is said about us is untrue - lies. But these people apparently subscribe to the dictum that a lie repeated often enough will be believed. We care for the well-being of our people. We want to develop so as to give them a reasonable standard of living. But we cannot be cowed into not speaking our minds. If the powerful nations do wrong, we will speak out against them even if they say we are unduly suspicious, that we have an exaggerated sense of our own importance, and so on. We can be belittled but we will continue to speak the truth. Here at the United Nations we will say what we feel we should say. Of course, the controlled 'free' Western media will not publish it. But the few here will hear us. In any case, it is what we achieve that counts with us. We can do without Western approval. Four or five years ago the world was celebrating the impending collapse of the 'evil empire'. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics was still intact then, but all indications were that it had given up the fight; that it was coming to terms with its main adversaries, the countries of the Western so-called free world; and that the cold war was drawing to a close. Peace was breaking out all over the world and there was much talk of peace dividends. The arms race would end, there would be nuclear disarmament and, as the saying goes, swords would be turned into ploughshares. A brave new world would emerge: equitable, just and prosperous. There would be no oppression, no terror and no poverty or starvation. Everyone would embrace democracy and the market economy, moving from authoritarian rule and command economies without a hitch. And a global policeman would see to it that every country stayed in line or faced the consequences. There was no end to the good things that would make up the peace dividends. It would be wrong to say that there were no peace dividends at all - the Iran-Iraq war, the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, the war in Cambodia, some of the Central American wars, and now the violent Palestinian-Israeli confrontation and South Africa’s apartheid were all resolved, partially or completely. But the world has not become a safer or a better place for a great many. The Soviet Union did not just become a democratic practitioner of free trade, working with the good guys for a better world. It broke up into a number of republics and Russia has become dangerously unstable and ungovernable. The respected great reformer of perestroika and glasnost fame was ousted and disgraced and has been replaced by another, who seems to fare no better. The 'evil empire' is no more. But the price in human lives and the displacement of people has been very high. And the price is still being paid. In Georgia, Moldova, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Tajikistan, much destruction and many killings have taken place and are still taking place. The old economic structure has been destroyed but the new one is far from being in place. Chaos, bloody chaos, prevails in many places. Far from achieving universal peace, the world is treated to a spectacle of unparalleled brutality by the Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In many countries of Europe, fascism has once again reared its ugly head. Houses are torched and people burned to death. And the voters actually approve. During the cold-war days the protagonists constantly tried to provoke uprisings against Governments of the countries they were opposed to. They would provide financial and material help and would promise that they would protect the rebels or provide them with asylum. Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 17 With the collapse of the Communist bloc, the people there expected help when they overthrew their Communist Governments and established democratic, free-market societies, or they sought independence for their countries. In some instances they found their expectations justified. The Slovenes and the Croats enjoyed the full support of the Europeans and were able to mould new nations. But the Iraqi Kurds and the Bosnians learned that they thought wrong. It is only coincidental that both are Muslim communities. The most tragic case is that of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The crime of the Muslims is that they wish for a nonMuslim, religiously heterogenous State. They were viciously attacked by the Serbs, who openly declared that they were doing so - and they are still doing so - to ensure that Europe remains Christian. And they are not being prevented from proceeding in this way by the Europeans. The cruelties committed by the Serbs defy the imagination. In one case, which caused officials in one of the powerful countries of the West to resign in protest over their Government’s passivity, a six-year-old child was repeatedly raped in front of her mother, who not only had to watch but was prevented from giving any help, and the little child died after two days of exposure. That is not an isolated incident. Muslim women, old and young, and little girls have been raped, brutalized and killed by the tens of thousands at the hands of the Serbs, and now the Croats. Hundreds of thousands of Muslims have died and are dying, and some 2 million have been forced to flee from their burning towns and villages. And what do the erstwhile champions of freedom and democracy do? They actually prevent the victims from defending themselves. Instead, they try to force the victims to accept the partitioning and surrender of their territories, which have been ethnically cleansed by the Serbs and the Croats. Thus are the rapists and murderers to be rewarded. Only the most gullible will still believe that the vociferous champions of freedom and democracy will risk their necks for other people’s freedom and democracy. Malaysia would like to record its satisfaction over the acceptance of Malaysian troops to serve in the United Nations forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We regret, however, the exclusion of certain Muslim countries from participating in the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR). Apparently, the distrust of Muslims is quite widespread. Malaysians are prepared to serve under whoever is appointed by the United Nations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We hope that our troops will be well supported. We will not protest if the United Nations decides to increase pressure on the Serbs, even through the mounting of a military offensive, provided due preparations are made. When we add things up, the peace dividends accruing from the ending of the cold war have not been really substantial. If there has been any change, the debit side is much bigger than the credit side. The most glaring example is the reneging on the much-needed development assistance to poor developing countries. Still, when drawing up the balance sheet since the end of the cold war one cannot but highlight two significant items on the credit side. The recent signing of the peace agreement between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and the Israelis and that between blacks and whites in South Africa must be regarded as the biggest achievements of the post-cold-war period. Admittedly, there is still a great deal to be negotiated before justice can be rendered to all sides and before true peace becomes permanent. But the most crucial obstacles have been cleared. I should like to congratulate all the parties concerned for their good sense and their boldness. The extremists on both sides will not be happy. There will be more violence. But I am sure that those who are for peace and good sense will be as brave in peace as they have been in war. I commend these accords to the good people of Northern Ireland. It is brave not to surrender even one inch, but it takes real bravery to compromise. One may well ask why, in the face of the muchpublicized failure of the United States-sponsored peace talks between the PLO and Israel, there should be this sudden breakthrough. The answer is to be found in the press statements. Good sense cannot prevail when the media demands that statements be made by each and everyone before and after each negotiating session. The negotiators are forced to take public stands, to demonstrate how tough they are and that they will not give even an inch. Having taken those stands, they were no longer able to accommodate good sense. At the peace talks in Norway, there was no press, and good sense was able to prevail. There is this great democratic principle of 'the need to know.' But do we all really need to know every detail of every negotiation? Does every Israeli settler or Gaza Strip Arab, or, for that matter, every Tom, Dick and Harry in every part of the world, need to know everything about the negotiations? Must 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Palestinians continue to be killed and be made homeless because everybody needs to know what was said by whom? This need for transparency, this right to information, is an invention of those who want to make money from the information industry. We should know about the bestiality of the Serbs in Bosnia so that we may react, but that knowledge is largely denied us. On the other hand, day in and day out we are shown this parade of negotiators to a peace conference. Can the average man do anything worthwhile as a result of seeing the daily TV report? We live in the information age. There has been and there will continue to be an unending explosion in the field of information technology. Today, we can sit in our homes and watch and hear a war as it is being fought, witness with eyes and ears a beauty contest as it is being judged, and look through a microscope at a bug as it swims, all via the TV screen. We see all these things as they are, where they are, without a second’s delay. We can watch murder as it is being committed, in all the gory details, and we can be shocked by it. But, then, we can also watch Michael Jackson doing his moon walk at the very moment mass murder and massacres of the most brutal kinds are being committed. What we see and hear and witness is what the media decide we should see and hear and witness. If the media wants us to be shocked by a massacre, it can broadcast lurid details of that massacre. But if it chooses to broadcast Michael Jackson at the time the massacre was taking place, we will be stomping our feet in total enjoyment. Clearly, the people who decide what we should see and hear hold terrible power. They can have us dancing in the streets or they can have us rioting in the streets with firebrands in our hands, burning, looting and killing. Can we doubt that such people are powerful? Make no mistake: the people who control the media control our minds, and probably control the world. They can make or break presidents, and they have done so. Countries can be isolated or accepted despite violations of human rights, depending on how the media present them. And who controls the powerful world media? Not the national governments of tiny developing nations; not even the governments of powerful nations. A very few people in the West control all the international media. Some are journalists, but quite a few are not. Collectively they are Big Brothers. Now they have an even more effective weapon in the form of the worldwide television network. Today they broadcast slanted news. Tomorrow they will broadcast raw pornography to corrupt our children and destroy our culture. They are already doing that in Europe. Today we can still control the reception. The day is fast approaching when only a coat-hanger will be needed to receive television broadcasts from across the world. We will have nowhere to retreat. Already the small nations are being accused of being undemocratic and limiting freedom because we do not allow reception of international television networks. We hope this is because our accusers believe in the freedom of the press, but we suspect it is because they monopolize the world media and stand to profit substantially from the freedom they insist every nation should have. Malaysia believes in press freedom. But that freedom, as with other freedoms and rights, must be accompanied by responsibility. We will continue to expect the Malaysian media to be responsible. We will not forgo the need to enforce that responsibility. But as to the international press, we can only hope and pray that they will realize the damage they are doing. We will not interfere with them. They are free to report and to write any number of lies but we hope that occasionally they will cover the truth as well. Power corrupts, but power without responsibility is the most corrupting influence of all. We have heard often enough of the need for restructuring the United Nations. We need this because the world has changed. It is not the world of the immediate post-Second-World-War period that we have today. The people who plunged the world into a horrendous war are now the good guys, telling the world how to be humane. The rapacious invaders of the past are now the good Samaritans, distributing aid to the needy. Will there always be no room for the reformed? We talk of democracy as the only acceptable system of government. It is so good that we cannot wait for the democratic process to bring about its own acceptance by every country. It must be forced upon everyone, whether welcome or not. Yet when it comes to the United Nations, we eschew democracy. And the most undemocratic aspect of the United Nations is the veto power of the five permanent members of the Security Council. We can accept some weighting in their favour, but for each of them alone to be more powerful than the whole membership of the United Nations is not acceptable; it was not before, it is not now, and will not be in the future. Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 19 For the time being, there can be some permanent members. But the veto must go. A formula must be found for new permanent members of the Security Council. Whatever the other qualifications may be, they must include a genuine and sincere interest in international welfare. At the ministerial-level World Conference on Human Rights held at Vienna this year, a more comprehensive definition of human rights was presented. Many countries like Malaysia were smeared in Vienna for allegedly refusing to accept the universality of human rights. We subscribe to the universality of human rights, but not to the irresponsible variety propounded by the West. Human rights is not a licence to do anything without regard to the rights of others. The rights of the majority are just as valid as the rights of the minority or the individual. A society has a right to protect itself from the unbridled exercise of rights by individuals or a minority, which in the West has contributed to the collapse of morality and of the structure of human society. If individual and minority rights are so totally inviolable, then you must allow the resurgence of nazism and its violently racist activities in Europe and elsewhere. But it is apparent that the West at least still thinks that racist violence is wrong. We hope they will also accept that freedom from poverty and the wish to develop are essential elements of human rights. Finally, countries like Malaysia must take exception to preaching on human rights from people who willingly condone, and to a certain degree aid, 'ethnic cleansing' in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Until they redeem themselves there, all their talk of human rights will sound hollow. This litany of the woes of the developing countries and the world may seem endless. Actually, the list is far from complete. Trade and protectionism, aid and debts, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development and pressures on environmental issues, Antarctica and many more have not been touched upon. The world of the post-cold-war period is not a thoroughly bad place, but for the developing countries, including Malaysia, there is really very little to crow about. A statement in the General Assembly is not going to change the world. But there is really nowhere else that the woes of the third world can be aired. Not to air them is to encourage supercilious arrogance on the part of those who are most responsible yet who still presume to extol their own virtues and to preach to others. Even if the benefit is minimal, the truth must be told sometimes. Mr. President, allow me first of all to express, on behalf of the delegation, Government and people of Equatorial Guinea, our most sincere congratulations on your well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. Your undeniable personal prestige and your recognized adherence to the ideals that inspire our Organization will ensure the success of our work. Your country, Guyana, is a faithful contributor to and participant in the United Nations, and offers us today your great experience and diplomatic skill; these ensure the success of any decisions that may be taken at this session. Through you, we should like to extend our congratulations to the other members of the Bureau in the conviction that their collaboration will be decisive. I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the outgoing President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, and his Bureau for the contributions and guidance they provided to the United Nations General Assembly at its forty-seventh session. I should also like to convey to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the profound appreciation and gratitude of His Excellency Obiang Nguema Mbasogo and the Government and the people of Equatorial Guinea for his dedication and the efforts he has exerted in discharging the great responsibilities with which he has been entrusted in a manner that is a source of pride not only for Egypt but for all Africa. In carrying out his mission to promote the peaceful emergence of a new world order and the maintenance of peace, I assure the Secretary-General that he will be able to continue to rely on our full cooperation and support. To the new States that have joined our Organization we extend a very warm welcome. Their presence here strengthens the United Nations vocation towards universality, and should contribute to the efforts of the international community to maintain peace and promote progress and justice for all nations. My presence in this world forum should be interpreted as a clear demonstration of the importance that we attach to the United Nations, its principles and its noble task of constantly strengthening the safeguards over the maintenance of peace and social and economic progress for all peoples. This task is of singular importance to Equatorial Guinea, which is engaged in overcoming underdevelopment and achieving dignified standards of living for its people. The common denominator of the many statements that have been made has been the vast changes that have taken place in the world since the mid-1980s, a trend towards transformation the pace of which, far from decreasing, has accelerated considerably. With the disappearance of the East-West bipolar structure, which has been replaced by dialogue and cooperation, we find ourselves - and this is no exaggeration - faced with a new configuration in international relations characterized by a certain degree of progress in disarmament, at the global and regional levels, and an easing of some regional conflicts. Equatorial Guinea firmly supports the intensification of the work of the United Nations through preventive diplomacy. Measures such as the sending of missions of inquiry, the use of early-warning systems and the strengthening of the role of regional and subregional organizations can be effective in avoiding conflicts which, once they break out, could require subsequent, much more costly intervention for peace to be restored. Peace-keeping operations have also undergone qualitative change and now cover increasingly varied activities transcending the traditional sphere. In this respect I should like to underscore the efforts of the United Nations in many parts of the world in the humanitarian field, in providing aid to refugees and in monitoring elections. Progress and efforts at the subregional level are commendable. Hence we support General Assembly resolution 46/37 B, establishing the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, which is working for peace and confidence-building among the States of our subregion. As a popular saying goes: 'An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.' With that Committee we are trying to prevent the emergence of conflicts in the subregion by developing measures to alleviate situations of conflict. None the less, despite these positive steps and endeavours, at the global level we look to the future with a certain degree of concern because we still see certain positions that prevent equitable economic relations and impede developing countries from exercising international free trade. The sound of the machine-gun and the cannon is still dashing the hopes of many innocent peoples to live in peace and tranquillity. The present international situation, we might say, fluctuates between uneasiness and hope. We hope that the global changes and the end of the cold war will bring renewed life to countries of the third world. The industrialized countries must understand the need to resolve, on mutually agreed terms, the external debt problem of underdeveloped countries. The weight of that debt is another serious difficulty standing in the way of their achieving a better standard of living. My country hopes that the new world scene will be conducive to the implementation of procedures for sincere international cooperation for those nations that most need such cooperation, countries that are now struggling not just for a standard of living but for their very survival. Poverty, the sad fate of many States in our world, requires that united action be taken by the other States in order to remedy the situation. The gap between rich and poor is widening at an alarming pace; that disparity can not leave the international community indifferent. Hence it is necessary to strengthen the Economic and Social Council and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in order to meet the new realities. The problem of preserving the environment and the struggle against illicit drug-trafficking are questions that require our reflection. With the 1992 Stockholm Declaration we laid the foundations of certain universal principles to preserve the global environment and made efforts to stem pollution, desertification and deforestation. But the situation required new initiatives, and these culminated in the Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro. We hope that these results will have positive effects overall and that it will be possible to ensure sustainable development and the future well-being of mankind. None the less, I wish to emphasize the obligation of the developed countries, which bear the greatest responsibility for the deterioration of the global ecosystem, towards those other countries that are today being asked to make enormous sacrifices by limiting their legitimate right to use the assets given them by nature. There is a need to seek the necessary compensation for this situation, in particular by the financing of alternative projects and through technological cooperation. Within its modest economic means my Government has always been, and remains, prepared to take action in order to improve its national environment as a contribution to the task of preserving the global environment. We condemn the illicit traffic in drugs and are prepared to support any international initiative aimed at its suppression. The Government of Equatorial Guinea is unflagging in its struggle against the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) pandemic, and it will spare no effort for its effective control, thanks to the deep awareness of our people and the assistance we receive in this connection from international organizations. To reflect the noble ideals of peace and justice of the people of Equatorial Guinea, my Government has embarked Forty-eighth session - 13 October l993 3 on a progressive democratic process that guarantees to every citizen of the country the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms. The firm democratic process begun in the country has been well-received by the people of Equatorial Guinea and by those countries that set aside mere rhetoric and concealed political interests, love Equatorial Guinea and hope that it will progress. The aspiration of the people and the Government of Equatorial Guinea is that our process will be carried through in a climate of national concord without upheaval, without disturbances that could threaten the peace and stability prevailing in the country. That is why, following the massive adoption of the new fundamental law which enshrined our multiparty system, in the context of Law No. 3 1992 on political parties, the following political organizations have been made legal. First, the Popular Union submitted its application on 24 April 1992 and was recognized on 17 October 1992. Second, the Liberal Democratic Convention submitted its application on 1 April 1992 and was recognized on 17 October 1992. Third, the Social Democrat Party submitted its application on 8 June 1992 and was recognized on 17 October 1992. Fourth, the Progressive Democratic Alliance submitted its application on 9 July 1992 and was recognized on 4 September 1992. Fifth, the Social Democratic Union submitted its application on 8 June 1992 and was recognized on 17 October 1992. Sixth, the Progress Party submitted its application on 18 May 1992 and was recognized on 17 October 1992. Seventh, the Social Democratic and Popular Convergence submitted its application on 18 May 1992 and was recognized on 5 February 1993. Eighth, the Social Democratic Coalition Party of Equatorial Guinea submitted its application on 4 November 1992 and was recognized on 5 February 1993. Ninth, Convergence for Social Democracy submitted its application on 7 November 1992 and was recognized on 5 February 1993. Tenth, the Equatorial Guinea Popular Action submitted its application on 28 December 1992 and was recognized on 5 February 1993. Eleventh, the National Democratic Union submitted its application on 29 March 1993 and was recognized on 10 May 1993. Twelfth, the Socialist Party of Equatorial Guinea submitted its application on 23 March 1993 and was recognized on 10 May 1993. Thirteenth, the Liberal Party submitted its application on 23 March 1993 and was recognized on 12 July 1993. In addition to other provisions, such as the law guaranteeing freedom of association and freedom to demonstrate, and the law on the right to protest and to petition, the determination of the Government to establish democracy peacefully in the country has taken concrete shape in the signing of a document - called the National Pact - between the Government and the opposition, which reflects the combined aspirations of all the political forces and is a channel for ensuring the success of the democratization process. Out of our constant desire to give greater political transparency to the process, we have postponed until 21 November 1993 the legislative elections originally planned for 12 September 1993. We have done so in order to take into account and meet the wishes of certain political groups. The political spectrum for the forthcoming general legislative elections now looks like this: there are political parties that have decided to participate in the legislative elections, political parties that intend to participate in the legislative elections, and political parties that have not yet decided whether to participate in the legislative elections. The political parties that have decided to participate in the legislative elections are: the Democratic Party of Equatorial Guinea, the Liberal Democratic Convention, the Social Democratic Union, the Liberal Party and the Social Democratic Party. This very morning, my Government informed me that the Party of the Convergence for Social and People’s Democracy has also decided to participate in the legislative elections. 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The political parties that have expressed their intention to participate in the legislative elections are: the Progress Party, Tomás Boi Cheky Division; and the Social Democrat Coalition Party, Massoko Division. With regard to the political parties that have not decided whether to participate in the legislative elections, the Government of Equatorial Guinea has received no official notification of a decision to participate in the legislative elections of 21 November from the following political parties: the Progress Party, Severo Moto Division; the Social Democratic Convergence; the Progressive Democratic Alliance; the Social Democrat Coalition Party, Buenaventura Monsuy Division; People’s Action of Equatorial Guinea; the National Democratic Union; and the Socialist Party of Equatorial Guinea. In connection with the revision of the electoral law proposed by the opposition political parties, on 19 October and 13 and 18 November the Government extended an invitation to these parties to participate in some meetings, but they did not come to the meetings or give any reason for not doing so. In view of the opposition parties’ inexplicable refusal to participate, and in order to avoid any stagnation in the political democratization process, the Government used its legislative initiative, under our Basic Law, to adopt a draft law, which was sent to the House of Representatives and approved with amendments by that legislative body. The text of the law was approved and promulgated by our Head of State in January 1993. It should be pointed out that the electoral law now in force is based on comparative law - mainly the electoral legislation of Spain, France and Gabon. For that reason, the Government is firmly convinced that the rejection of the electoral law by the opposition political parties that have not expressed their intention to participate in the legislative elections of 21 November 1993 is nothing but a pretext for delaying or blocking the process that has been set in motion. There is no doubt that the implementation of the democratic process in Equatorial Guinea has been made possible by the selflessness and determination of His Excellency Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, who, after freedom had triumphed on 3 August 1979, overthrew the dictatorship and began the real march of the country towards democracy in a climate of peace and harmony, which the advocates of violence wish to destroy with their provocations and their contemptible plots. We in Equatorial Guinea totally reject the views of the apologists violence and their attempts to undermine national peace and stability. We reject those who do nothing but defame our country and our Government, denigrating the actions that have been undertaken thus far in the country. A democracy imposed by foreign interests becomes corrupt and falls apart. A democracy that denies the genuine, traditional and sacred values of a people not only hurts the feelings, the pride and the honour of that people but is also doomed to failure. 'Man is what circumstances dictate', affirmed the great Spanish philosopher Balmes. That is why only a democracy that can respond to the sacred interests of the people of Equatorial Guinea will be viable in the Republic of Equatorial Guinea. In documents A/48/307 of 12 August 1993, A/48/330 of 19 August 1993, and A/48/357 of 31 August 1993, our Government presented information on the interference of certain foreign interests in my country’s internal affairs. From this rostrum, we are holding the countries responsible for that interference responsible for the consequences. We reaffirm that only in an atmosphere of peace is it possible to achieve the progress and well-being to which all peoples aspire. To the governmental and non-governmental organizations and friendly countries that, with their support, have contributed to the efforts of our Government, we express our deepest appreciation, and we urge them to continue to lend their support and cooperation at this decisive stage in our democratic process. Intelligent action in this new global society must be based on the exercise of the firmest solidarity. If that is done, we shall be able to say with pride, 'We the peoples, for a better world.' It is with profound pleasure that my delegation conveys greetings and best wishes from the Government and the people of Grenada to the United Nations General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. My delegation is pleased to extend sincere congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly during this forty-eighth session. We are especially pleased because you create history by being the first person from the region to which Grenada belongs to hold the prestigious post of General Assembly Presidency, coming as you do from our sister Caribbean Community (CARICOM) country, the Republic of Guyana. My delegation takes this opportunity also to commend Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria for the excellent manner in which he conducted the Assembly’s proceedings at its forty- seventh session. My Government also wishes to extend its commendations to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his indefatigable efforts in the service of the Organization. The Grenadian delegation is pleased to extend a warm welcome to the six new Members of the United Nations: the Czech Republic; the Republic of Slovakia, Eritrea, Monaco, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Andorra. Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 15 The problems of developing countries are still daunting. Every country must try to help itself. My Government continues to pursue its own economic structural adjustment programme, with which the people of Grenada have shown great understanding and cooperation. But prolonged difficulties in the economic sector can give rise to attitudes and conditions that can adversely impact upon social development and administrative capacities, and so my delegation calls on the international community to show greater flexibility in assisting the adjustment process of Grenada and other countries experiencing economic conditions similar to Grenada’s. Poverty, debt, inadequate resources, marginalization and the lack of secure markets for our products deal serious blows to social, economic and political stability. Further, the impact on small, undiversified economies from liberalizing trade regimes and regional trading blocs has been shocking. The fact is that free trade is not always synonymous with fair trade: factors of size, resource endowment and levels of development must be duly considered in settling trade relations. This is particularly so with small, open, primary- producing economies, where one serious natural disaster, such as a hurricane, can devastate all the fruits of our national labour invested in bananas, cocoa and nutmeg. In this scenario, concessioned trade is very much needed to produce anything like a level playing field. Developing countries will not progress on sympathy; they require equity. Small countries such as Grenada cannot do it all alone. We need assistance for diversification, for development of our human resources and for the implementation of sustainable development. The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) has placed before the world a wide range of challenges for managing the environment in a sustainable way. Developing countries, in particular small island nation States, like Grenada, are anxious that all Governments should move faster to effect the programme laid out by UNCED’s plan of work on sustainable development, Agenda 21. Greater emphasis needs to be placed by donor agencies on training, as well as on technical and financial assistance to developing countries to aid in sustainable forestry and agricultural practices. My delegation is convinced that the problems of the environment cannot wait. Grenada is particularly pleased with Agenda 21’s special recognition of the peculiar difficulties confronting the development of small island developing States and with the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States (SIDS), arising from that recognition, that will be held in Barbados in April and May 1994. It is Grenada’s sincere hope that that Conference will serve to generate a better understanding of the challenges and predicaments confronting small island developing States, and that it will produce the necessary partnership and establish a sound path to their sustainable development. Much of the important negotiations preparatory to the Conference remains incomplete. My delegation is concerned that the success of the Barbados Conference may be jeopardized unless an intercessional mechanism is arranged to provide for the advancement of the negotiations prior to April 1994. Grenada joins the rest of the world in rejoicing over the success of diplomatic perseverance in Afghanistan, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Cambodia and Haiti. Grenada is, however, highly disturbed by the renewal of politically motivated violence in Haiti. Grenada will continue to rally behind the United Nations and the Organization of American States in their efforts to restore democracy and stability to Haiti. Grenada welcomes the Governors Island negotiated settlement aimed at restoring to Haiti the legitimate Government of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. We support the establishment of an international constabulary force in that country. We call on all in Haitian society to give democracy and peace a chance. Grenada wishes to record its satisfaction over the historic attainment of formal recognition between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). We further applaud the signing of the Palestinian autonomy agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. It is a long-awaited peace initiative which will pave the way for the continued peaceful negotiation of tougher issues. Such a step will, in the long term, contribute to making the Middle East and the world a more peaceful place. Grenada welcomes the peace agreements initialled between Israel and Morocco and between Israel and Jordan as steps in the right direction. Grenada welcomes the finalization of the demarcation of the boundary between Kuwait and Iraq, which was accomplished by the Iraq-Kuwait Boundary Demarcation Commission on 20 May 1993. We also welcome the adoption by the Security Council of its resolution 833 (1993), in which it guaranteed the inviolability of the boundary between the two States and called for respect for that resolution. 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session My Government is, on the other hand, perturbed by the continuing wars in other parts of the world, such as the former Yugoslavia, Liberia, Somalia and Angola. We are alarmed at the lack of respect for United Nations peace-- keepers and aid workers, and call upon all sides in such conflicts to turn to peaceful negotiation and respect for human lives. The promotion of democracy and the enhancement of human rights must be vigorously pursued. The process of democratization has to be entrenched. My delegation, moreover, looks forward to welcoming to the United Nations, in the near future, the Republic of China on Taiwan. With its 21 million people, the Republic of China on Taiwan, has, over the past 20 years, progressed economically, socially and democratically to the point where it can no longer properly be kept out of the United Nations. The Republic of China on Taiwan has established diplomatic relations with a number of countries and has significantly contributed to the uplifting of the struggling economies of a great number of countries and the development of their peoples. Surely, these impressive achievements eminently qualify the Republic of China on Taiwan for admission to this Organization. Peace and democracy reaching areas new to them has noticeably been resulting in the deflection of aid to them, at the expense of traditional stable democracies. That newly emerging democracies have to be given due attention cannot be denied, but this cannot be wholly at the expense of the old democracies. The peace dividend accruing from the end of the cold war and the halting of the arms race should be expansive enough to nurture new democracies without abandoning old ones to unnecessary and far-reaching social and societal conflicts. After all, the issue of development is no less important than the issue of peace. International peace presupposes domestic quietude in the States making up the community of nations. This requires continuing emphasis on human-resource development and the enhancement of cultural and social amenities in such areas as education, health and housing. In this regard, Grenada insists on the protection of the rights of the child, enhancement of the rights of women and the strengthening of the family unit. The pursuit of the human race must be the nurturing of peace by the ending of discrimination and the enhancement of equality, whether between sexes or races, or with regard to social origins, religion or whatever other differences might have been created through ignorance or arrogance. As we in Grenada say 'A child is a child'. My delegation welcomes the establishment of a criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. It is with great concern that the world has witnessed men, women and children being massacred in that region in the name of ethnicity and religion. Grenada takes this opportunity to encourage the establishment of similar tribunals in areas where they may be necessary. Such cooperation as the world is seeing today in restoring democracy and civil and political rights to citizens of warring countries ought to be extended to the field of international criminal activities. Grenada stands ready to collaborate with other countries in putting a halt to such activities as illicit drug production, trafficking and consumption and money-laundering and their associated ills. These tend to decay the moral fibre of a society and drain already scant resources in efforts to combat the menace, thus frustrating national development processes. Grenada has accordingly enacted legislation giving effect to the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, of 1988, providing for the forfeiture and confiscation of the proceeds of crime, outlawing moneylaundering and promoting bilateral and multilateral cooperation in the fight against these menaces. Grenada is very pleased that the South African Parliament has agreed to establish a Transitional Executive Council, which is expected to allow the black majority to participate in the governing of their country. We received with joy the news that 27 April 1994 has been set as the date for the election of a Government in South Africa in which South Africans of all races, colours, beliefs and genders will participate. We applaud the efforts that have been made by the Government of President De Klerk and the African National Congress of Nelson Mandela to usher in genuine democracy in South Africa. We encourage all South Africans to give full support to that progress. Throughout the world, people are looking towards the United Nations for solutions to their political, economic, ethnic and social problems. The freeing of the United Nations from ideological tensions has made this possible; but we are aware that the United Nations must now be restructured, the better to meet these ends. The composition of the Security Council should be re-examined, with new permanent seats on that Council being allotted to such countries as Japan, without current permanent membership being affected. Also, additional seats should be added. Further, an appropriate mechanism is needed to establish adequate oversight and accountability in the United Nations. The capability of the United Nations to conduct peace-keeping should be enhanced and rationalized. Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 17 World security requires all of us, nations great as well as small, to make extra efforts to attain and maintain peace and democracy for development. As a community of nations, let us therefore work diligently and tirelessly to attain these goals. I should like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of this session of the General Assembly. Your well-known skills and your vast knowledge of the United Nations augur well for the success of the session’s work. I should like to pay a tribute to your predecessor as President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, former Foreign Minister of Bulgaria, for work well done. I should also like to express my appreciation to the Secretary-General for the dynamism he has brought to United Nations activities, for his constant efforts to contribute to the betterment of the Organization and for his personal commitment to reforming the Secretariat structures and improving the Organization’s efficiency in the discharge of its functions and duties. We live in a time of great hopes. The political events of the recent past have greatly facilitated adherence to democratic values, while at the same time they have contributed to the world movement in favour of respect for human rights and have promoted the world’s awareness of the necessity for urgent measures to improve the living conditions of all peoples as well as the planet’s environment. Indeed, in a short period of time a substantial number of countries have, against all odds, attained their independence and recovered their freedom. The ideological confrontation of the past has been replaced by political cooperation between countries, and conflicts with a long history, such as the struggle against apartheid and the situation in the Middle East, seem finally to be close to a negotiated solution. On the other hand, democracy, as a desirable system of government, has gained an unprecedented dimension and support, although much remains to be done to consolidate it. These are indeed political developments of the greatest importance that shape and at the same time are the result of a world in profound transformation. That transformation bodes well for a more stable future in the relations between nations and peoples. While on the one hand these changes augur well for a better, more humane and more just and stable world, they have, on the other hand, been accompanied by the resurgence of many conflicts, most of them of an internal nature. Indeed, in many regions of the world, especially in Europe and in Africa, ancient ethnic rivalries or internal struggles for power have turned into open conflicts, leaving a trail of death and destruction, spawning millions of refugees and displaced persons and giving rise to regional instability. I have been witnessing with deep concern the development of many of these conflicts in Africa, which have a negative impact not only on the countries involved but on the entire region. At a time when all our efforts and resources should be put to good use to assist the development of our countries and continent and to create better living conditions for our peoples, we have come to realize that the scarce resources that we still have in our countries are wasted on the fire of armed conflicts, and the few economic structures that were left are being sacrificed to violence. The armed conflicts that appear to proliferate almost everywhere seem to elude the efforts of the United Nations. In most of these conflicts, the world has been faced with tremendous difficulties in containing and managing them, notwithstanding the constant efforts of the Security Council and the Secretary General. Such is the case of the conflict in Angola, a sister country whose suffering people have for more than 30 years endured the horrors of war, the anxiety of constant instability and the uncertainty of the future. Despite the enormous efforts made, especially by the United Nations, the conflict in Angola continues to cause death and the destruction of the country. The international community had placed great hopes in the elections of September last year that were supervised by this Organization. We all expected that those elections would be the last step in a peace process that would finally put an end to decades of destruction and give birth to a new and democratic Angola, thus creating the climate of political and social harmony in the country so much needed for its development. Instead, the events that followed the elections have been regrettably translated into a violent and tragic situation known to the whole world, a situation which is a cause of deep concern to us all and in which many thousands of lives are being lost, while the suffering of the population that has lasted so long continues and the destruction of cities and the economic infrastructure goes on. Unfortunately, the repeated mediation efforts of the United Nations and other forums and entities, geared towards obtaining a cease-fire and the resumption of the Bicesse process, have so far not attained the expected results. There should be no illusions, for, as the long history of this conflict has abundantly demonstrated, no military victory can guarantee lasting peace and stability and the prosperity of the country. I do not envisage any alternative to negotiations if peace is to prevail as a goal to be achieved by all in Angola. The use of violent means following the elections cannot be justified and, indeed, shows blatant disregard for the sovereign will of the people, which was expressed freely and fairly, as certified by the international community. I sincerely hope that, worn out by a protracted and devastating war, faced with a country whose economic structure has been destroyed and touched by the social and human drama caused by the hostilities, the parties to the conflict, especially UNITA, will rise to the moment and, moved by political realism, lend the negotiations the much- needed political will and seriousness, thereby demonstrating the magnanimity that the security and the well-being of the Angolan people require. The Angolan experience is a lesson that should be taken into consideration by the Organization in managing or assisting in the management of other conflicts. One such case is the conflict in Mozambique, a country to which Cape Verde is linked by fraternal ties. My country, as a member of the Security Council, has been following the situation in Mozambique very closely and with particular interest. After many years of war, peace seems finally to prevail in that country. The General Peace Agreements concluded last year defined the framework for the attainment of final and lasting peace. I therefore ascribe the utmost importance to the observance and timely implementation of these Agreements by both parties. It is a moral duty to the people of Mozambique, who are still going through the hardships of day-to-day life and who legitimately aspire to a future of peace, harmony and progress, that these Agreements be respected and abided by. The positive steps taken lately in this regard give me grounds for hope. In this context, I consider particularly important the dialogue that has started between the President of the Republic of Mozambique, Mr. Joaquim Chissano and the President of RENAMO, Mr. Afonso Dhlakama. I hope that that dialogue will continue on a regular basis with a view to facilitating the removal of obstacles that might arise during the implementation of the peace agreements, so as to enable the elections to take place on the scheduled date. I appeal to both parties to exert all their efforts with a view to Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 3 expediting the implementation of key aspects of the Agreements before the elections, namely, the demobilization and the cantonment of troops and the formation of the national army of Mozambique. I should also like to refer to the conflict in Liberia, which has been the focus of the attention of the countries of the West African subregion to which my own country belongs. The conflict in Liberia has caused much destruction and the loss of thousands of lives, and has inflicted enormous pain and suffering on the population. It has been a source of constant concern to the countries of our subregion. The Cotonou Agreement, a decisive step in the quest for a lasting peaceful solution to the conflict, is the result of the international community’s commendable efforts to establish peace in Liberia, efforts in which the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) played a pivotal role. The recent Security Council decision to deploy an Observer Mission in Liberia (UNOMIL) to assist, in coordination with the forces of the ECOWAS Military Observer Group, in the implementation of the Cotonou Agreement is an appropriate and commendable one. I appeal to all the parties involved to abide by their obligations and cooperate with the United Nations and ECOWAS in order to secure the timely implementation of the peace agreement and the holding of the legislative and presidential elections on the scheduled date at the beginning of next year. The situation in Somalia is one of the most tragic conflicts of modern times. This tragedy has resulted in the loss of hundreds of thousands of lives and in the disintegration of the country’s civil society and administrative structures. The Security Council’s timely decision to involve the United Nations in the management of the conflict and the humanitarian action of various organizations and entities have changed the situation in Somalia and created the conditions for the return of normalcy to the country. I commend the internationalist and humanitarian role of the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM), whose presence there has contributed much to eliminating famine, re-establishing order and guaranteeing the security of the population, despite the condemnable and deliberate attacks to which the Operation has been subjected. It is imperative that immediate efforts be made, in accordance with the last decision of the Security Council, to accelerate the process of consultations and contacts with all the parties and forces in Somalia, with a view to creating a climate of security there and bringing political harmony and administrative normalcy to the country. On a more positive note, it is encouraging to see the progress made in the negotiations to bring the regime of apartheid to an end. The announcement of the establishment of a Transitional Executive Council is a major event in the long struggle against apartheid which will finally be eliminated with the holding of democratic elections next year. Notwithstanding the substantial progress made over the years in the field of peaceful solution of inter-State conflicts, the tendency still persists in some countries to solve conflicts with other countries through the use of force. The conflict between Iraq and Kuwait illustrates well such a tendency, which led to the disastrous Gulf war. Despite the tragic lesson taught by this war and the various resolutions adopted by the Security Council, much tension still exists between the two countries. I hold it to be of fundamental importance to peace in the region that the two sister countries live together as good neighbours and respect their common borders, in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions. Not long ago, we all thought that the conditions for peace and stability in the world had finally arrived, since the danger of a super-Power military confrontation and the rivalry between the two blocs had disappeared with the end of the cold war. However, we are now, paradoxically, confronted as never before with a series of armed conflicts. The time has come for a deep collective reflection in order to identify ways to contain these conflicts. At the same time, preventive measures should be adopted to eliminate or diminish the possibility of potential conflicts degenerating into armed confrontation. Preventing conflicts is the most secure and least expensive way of saving lives and preserving international peace and security. The Secretary-General’s 'Agenda for Peace' contains a series of ideas and recommends a number of measures for the management, control and prevention of armed conflicts. I believe that most of the measures proposed by the Secretary-General, in particular those having to do with preventive diplomacy, should be put into practice as soon as possible. 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The United Nations and the regional organizations should be able to create effective mechanisms to control potential conflicts and to eliminate the political and social conditions which spawn them. We should bear in mind that the majority of the armed conflicts which today affect almost all regions of the world are internal, though some have international implications because of their repercussions on the peace and stability of neighbouring countries. If we want to prevent such armed conflicts, we should be able to address their root causes. Amongst these root causes, attention should be focused on the limitations imposed by the denial of effective participation by all citizens in the process of the governance of their country, as well as on the violence resulting from disrespect for the fundamental human rights of the individual or of ethnic or religious groups. I believe - and this is demonstrated by our own democratic experience in Cape Verde - that the internal stability of a country and the social harmony among its various groups have much to gain when all citizens are able to exercise freely, fairly and fully their political rights by participating in the definition of their country’s destiny, choosing their system of Government and freely and periodically selecting their Government leaders. The changes that have taken place in the international scene have unequivocally demonstrated the importance of the protection of human rights for all countries. Indeed, the respect for and the promotion of these rights have gained a global dimension and are today one of the most visible global issues on the international agenda. My country has a Constitution enshrining a vast list of fundamental rights, and the respect for human rights is one of the most important pillars of its internal and external policies. We therefore welcome the central role that the protection of human rights has today on the agenda of nations. Cape Verde is deeply committed to the cause of human rights promotion. Our policies and Government actions are guided not only by humanistic considerations but also by practical motives, for we believe that the respect for human rights introduces an equilibrium that creates internal conditions favourable to economic development and social harmony. I therefore find it all the more difficult to accept the precarious human-rights situation in which the people of East Timor find themselves. In this regard, I encourage the Secretary-General to pursue his efforts with a view to finding a negotiated solution to the question of East Timor. In a world fraught with ethnic conflicts, respect for the rights of minorities should deserve the best of our attention and requires a deeper national awareness and better international protection as well. I commend all those countries that have actively been promoting, at the world level, the cause of human rights. However, I think that such promotion must not be selective. For my country, the situation in which migrant workers find themselves in certain receiving States is an equally important human-rights issue. Since Cape Verde is a country with an emigrant community abroad that is larger than the island’s resident population, I cannot miss this opportunity to express my deep concern about the hurdles and difficulties that migrant workers are increasingly facing in certain receiving countries, difficulties that, in some cases, amount to flagrant violations of their fundamental human rights. It is unfortunate to note that in many countries, including some developed countries, the rights of migrant workers are being neglected or simply forgotten. The worsening of the economic situation in these countries has been accompanied by a worsening of discriminatory actions and practices against the expatriates and the implementation of policies that frustrate the enjoyment of their hard-won rights, leading to their expulsion from countries where they have, for long, been making an honest living and to whose economy they have been making great contributions. The future of humankind cannot be seriously protected in the absence of values that are inherent to sincere and fraternal solidarity. Human rights cannot be adequately promoted and protected if, in many countries, poverty persists and if their peoples continue to live on the periphery of development and their populations continue to endure the hardship of extreme poverty. Underdevelopment brews conditions conducive to generalized and persistent violations of the most fundamental rights of the human person, especially the rights of women and children. Indeed, the poverty and precarious living conditions generated by underdevelopment give rise to social and political instability, which, in the end, will have an enormous effect on international peace and security. It therefore becomes imperative for us all to work towards effective cooperation for development in order to guarantee a minimum standard of human dignity and living conditions, thus breaking the chain of poverty and human suffering. I hope that the answer to some of these concerns will be found during the World Summit for Social Development. Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 5 In this regard, the African countries are facing a particularly difficult economic and social situation. Affected by drought and desertification, confronted with the social and economic strangulation caused or worsened by many armed conflicts, marginalized by a system of economic and financial cooperation more prone to respond to the needs of other regions and countries, and torn by widespread poverty and the worsening of living conditions, the African countries are in dire need of urgent measures on the part of the international community to assist them in their necessary internal development efforts. Against this background, I commend the timely initiative of the Japanese Government to promote the convening of an International Conference on African Development, set to take place this month in Tokyo. It is my sincerest hope that this Conference will produce the expected results. In this regard, developed countries should increase substantially the resources earmarked to support African countries in their development efforts, especially at a time when these countries have embarked on fundamental economic reforms, imprinting more dynamism on the private sector, promoting the economic diversification of their countries and introducing structural adjustments. I share the views of those who advocate the need for the democratization of Africa. I would, however, like to emphasize that the promotion of democracy cannot be reduced simply to the setting up of formal democratic mechanisms and guarantees. Our own democratic experience in Cape Verde has taught us that, although democracy is the most desirable system of government and should, at all times, deserve our support, its consolidation and full acceptance by all the segments of the population require a favourable internal economic climate so as to have a positive impact on the creation of better living conditions for all. I would like to seize this opportunity to emphasize the great interest that my country, as an island nation, attaches to the preparatory work for the First Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, which is to take place next year. It is my most fervent hope that this Conference, the first initiative on the implementation of the decisions and commitments undertaken in the framework of Agenda 21, will produce satisfactorily concrete results. Cape Verde equally attaches utmost importance to the ongoing negotiations on the draft convention on desertification, in the implementation of a Rio Conference decision. Let us hope that this draft Convention will be concluded at an early date and will substantially contribute to the creation of the international mechanisms needed to deal effectively with the devastating effects of drought and desertification, which have been causing immense damage to the economy of the affected countries and to the global environment as well. We are living a historic moment, a moment full of potential for a collective future of peace and development. While on the one hand we have lately been confronting painful realities and negative developments that have raised real concerns for those of us interested in the maintenance of international peace and security, on the other hand it is comforting and encouraging to note the profound positive changes that have taken place not only in inter-State relations but also, and especially, in the redefinition of our system of values which will, we hope, in peace and harmony guide nations in their internal as well as in their international relations in the coming decades. We should seize the opportunity offered by the remaining few years of this century to act with determination and commitment with a view to consolidating democracy in the world, promoting human rights and, at the same time and with the same commitment and determination, recognizing that the foundation for a new world order can reside only in the development of countries and in cooperation amongst them in order to arrive at solutions to the global problems that affect us all. This is my conviction as the Head of State of a small, peace-loving country that has always advocated dialogue among peoples and countries, and also as a citizen of this world, which I wish were more humane and more united. Let me begin by congratulating President Insanally of Guyana on his election to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I feel confident that under his guidance we shall succeed in strengthening the United Nations and establishing peace and prosperity. The number and importance of the challenges facing the United Nations after its almost 50 years of existence call for reforms. The number of Members is increasing. Now that the cold war has ended, the United Nations, and notably the Security Council, is in a better position than ever to function as foreseen in the Charter. The peoples of the world are looking more and more to the United Nations to solve their conflicts. The United Nations is expected to bring political stability and economic prosperity to all parts of the world. The United Nations is expected to play a leading role in surmounting the poverty gap. It is expected to secure ecologically sustainable development. The United Nations is expected to provide development assistance, Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 29 environmental assistance and emergency assistance. It is expected to play a leading role in securing democracy and respect for human rights, including women’s and children’s rights. It is expected to bring relief to refugees and displaced persons. And the United Nations is expected to prevent the spread of the means of mass destruction. Reform of the United Nations is necessary to meet these challenges. Let me concentrate on seven items on the reform agenda. First, Denmark attaches particular importance to the role of the Security Council as stated in the Charter. The efficiency of the Council in making decisions during the recent past has raised new expectations as to its ability to respond to crises. It is therefore important to ensure that the Council membership reflects the situation of today. The Government of Denmark recognizes that the developing countries have a case for improving their representation. We also recognize that there are countries with global influence and responsibilities that may wish to see this acknowledged in the composition of the Security Council. Those Member States will, I am sure, also assume a special responsibility vis-à-vis the activities of the United Nations and, in particular, to contribute politically, militarily and financially to the implementation of the Council’s decisions. As my second point I wish to recall that Denmark has always participated actively in the peace-keeping operations of the United Nations. Consequently, it stands ready to discuss how to strengthen the Organization in the area of peace-keeping, peacemaking and preventive diplomacy. The Nordic countries intend to follow this question with particular interest with a view to putting forward proposals during this session of the Assembly. The deployment of a largely Nordic peace-keeping force in Macedonia is a concrete example of preventive deployment. In addition, Denmark is setting up a reaction brigade of 4,500 soldiers. They could be deployed in peace- keeping, peacemaking and humanitarian United Nations operations. We are ready to make part of that force available for the United Nations stand-by force arrangement. The stand-by force arrangement could be vital in improving the planning, reducing the lead-time and increasing the flexibility in the peace-keeping field. Denmark supports a more active role for the United Nations in conflict prevention and crisis management. I welcome the fact that some of the recommendations in 'An Agenda for Peace' in this respect have already been implemented. Thirdly, the World Conference on Human Rights in June this year in Vienna reaffirmed the universal character of human rights. The conference also focused on the human rights of women, and rightly so: women’s rights are human rights. The General Assembly should decide to establish the post of high commissioner for human rights, as recommended by that Conference. We should also take steps substantially to increase the resources for the United Nations human rights programme, including the United Nations Centre for Human Rights. There are times when the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of a Member State must yield to a decision by the international community to secure respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms, such as freedom from hunger and protection from genocide. Furthermore, the right of the civilian population to receive humanitarian assistance must also be respected, regardless of national frontiers. Denmark fully supports efforts to secure the safety and protection of United Nations personnel operating in areas of armed conflict. Fourthly, we also need a strong United Nations in the economic and social fields. The United Nations must respond effectively to the economic and social needs of the developing countries. There can be no lasting peace and security unless the growing inequalities are addressed. The 'agenda for development' to be drafted in the coming year by the Secretary-General will, it is hoped, contribute to setting the priorities for the United Nations for the twenty- first century. By attaining the accepted United Nations targets for official development assistance - 0.7 per cent of gross national product and within that 0.15 per cent to the least developed countries - we would dramatically increase the volume of support for the developing countries. That would also clearly demonstrate the world’s commitment to deal seriously with its economic and social problems. Fifthly, as is well known, Denmark contributes substantially to United Nations development activities. Our contributions must be used to the optimum benefit of developing countries and not lost in bureaucracy and inefficiency. We must convince donors that the United 30 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Nations and its funds and programmes can serve as efficient channels for a large part of their development assistance. If not, other channels will increasingly be used. Member States must demonstrate their commitment to fundamental reform - not just window-dressing. During the past year a compromise solution for restructuring and revitalizing the United Nations in the economic and social fields was carefully negotiated, but finally not agreed upon. The Government of Denmark deeply regrets this situation. We sincerely hope that it will be remedied by this session of the General Assembly. Sixthly, it must be recognized that social peace is as important as strategic peace. We see the World Summit for Social Development to be held in Copenhagen in March 1995 as an opportunity to put people at the centre of development. To us, democratic practices and fair distribution of resources are closely related to dynamic economic development. The Copenhagen Summit and the fourth World Conference on Women will both mark the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations in 1995. The preparations for the women’s Conference should lead to a substantial input for the Copenhagen Summit. Likewise, the outcome of the Copenhagen Summit ought to be a strong message from the world’s leaders signalling their commitment to closing the gap between men’s and women’s social and economic opportunities. My seventh point concerns the Secretariat. Since he took office the Secretary-General has carried out a number of changes in the Secretariat. I commend the Secretary- General for these changes and assure him of our support in his efforts to make the Secretariat more efficient. All efforts should be undertaken to eradicate corruption, waste and mismanagement in the Secretariat. I welcome the establishment of the post of Assistant Secretary-General for Inspections and Investigations. This is the first step towards the creation of the post of Inspector-General. But such initiatives cannot of themselves solve the financial crisis of the United Nations. That requires that Member States pay their assessed contributions on time and in full. That is one of the basic requirements for membership of the Organization. I fail to understand how Member States, including some of the permanent members of the Security Council, can call for United Nations assistance, including in peace-keeping operations, and then not pay. This leaves the United Nations unable to perform vital functions. It also leaves troop - contributors such as Denmark with the problem that the United Nations does not honour its financial obligations to us - that is, to repay expenses for Danish United Nations personnel and equipment. Let me now turn to a few current problems facing the world and the United Nations. In the Middle East we are witnessing a historic breakthrough. I pay tribute to the Israelis and the Palestinians for having taken this step towards a comprehensive, just and lasting solution. I commend Norway for its role in bringing about this agreement. I also welcome the fact that Israel and Jordan have signed an agenda for further negotiations. I hope that progress will soon be made in the Israeli-Syrian and Israeli-Lebanese tracks of the peace process. Ample support, both economic and political, is essential to keep momentum, and must be provided by the international community. Denmark, at an early stage, together with the other Nordic countries, decided to pledge a substantial amount. We have also demonstrated our commitment to the developments in the Middle East region through the European Community, the major donor in this context. In contrast, it is with dismay we see the developments in the former Yugoslavia. The international community should accept only a solution reached by peaceful means and negotiations. In this connection, I pay tribute to the tireless efforts of Lord Owen and Mr. Thorvald Stoltenberg. The solution to the crises must respect the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We cannot accept a territorial solution dictated by Serbs and Croats at the expense of the Bosnian Muslims. It is extremely important now that all parties show the necessary flexibility in order to arrive at a solution they all can freely agree to. Such an arrangement must ensure the protection of human rights and the rights of minorities. Sanctions will remain in place until conditions for their lifting have been met. They should not be eased before a peace agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina is under faithful implementation by the Serbian side. Future attempts to hinder humanitarian aid and the guaranteed free passage of convoys are unacceptable and will have serious consequences for relations between the party responsible and the European Community. Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 31 By its resolution 827 (1993), the Security Council decided to establish the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991. Denmark strongly supports this decision. The conflict in the former Yugoslavia is probably the most difficult task taken on by the United Nations in its history. Denmark participates in the United Nations Protection Force with almost 1,300 peace-keepers and has made substantive contributions to the European Community Monitoring Mission. Large numbers of Danes are also involved in the humanitarian work carried out under the auspices of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. In addition, Denmark has made large financial contributions to the various international relief programmes and through Danish non-governmental organizations. Responding to the calls for swift and effective implementation of Security Council resolution 836 (1993) on safe areas, the Nordic countries have decided to field a joint Nordic United Nations battalion group of about 1,300 men to protect the safe areas around Tuzla in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The force is expected to be ready for deployment in October. That decision is evidence of the willingness of the Nordic countries to make their contribution to resolving the tragic conflict and protect the civilian population from the horrors of war. In the African continent, we see both hope and continued distress, regional conflicts and violations of basic human rights. As Mr. Nelson Mandela eloquently told the Special Committee against Apartheid last Friday, historic advances towards democracy in South Africa have been achieved. I welcome his call to lift the economic and diplomatic sanctions vis-à-vis his country. I also share his view that this will give added impetus to the process, and strengthen the forces, of democratic change. I wish to recall the decision of the European Community and its member States on 8 June 1993 to adjust their policy towards South Africa concurrently with developments towards majority rule and democracy. Denmark stands ready to support South African efforts to normalize relations with the United Nations. The United Nations, for its part, should support South Africa during its difficult transitional period. An urgent priority should be to support the first democratic elections. It is essential that they be free and fair. I can only echo Mr. Mandela’s call last week to the Security Council to consider how the United Nations can best support South Africa in this endeavour. It must be ensured that this last mile on the road to democracy is successful. Denmark intends to make a substantial contribution. We will also - once the Transitional Executive Council has been established - initiate a programme of transitional assistance to South Africa amounting to approximately 600 million Danish kroner, or about $100 million. The level of violence in South Africa remains unacceptably high; it is the single most serious threat to the process. We appeal to all parties to make every effort to stop the violence. The international community should continue to support such efforts. In Somalia the situation is still very grave. The deplorable actions in the form of continued attacks directed against the United Nations Operation in Somalia forces and relief and aid personnel cannot be condemned strongly enough. All parties in the civil strife must understand that violence does not pay in the long run. We support the efforts by the United Nations to bring about a negotiated settlement in Somalia as well as the efforts to relieve the suffering of the people. Civil strife and violations of the most basic human rights have characterized the Sudan for far too long. The Secretary-General has appointed a Special Envoy Humanitarian Affairs for the Sudan. Denmark urges all parties to seek political solutions to the problems of the country. We fully support the work of the Special Envoy as well as other steps to redress the prevailing situation, including the violation of human rights. Denmark congratulates the people of Cambodia on the historic and successful elections for a Constituent Assembly and on that Assembly’s presentation of a new constitution. The impressively high voter participation and the Constituent Assembly’s dedication in fulfilling its task constitute a victory for democracy and for the peace process. I also wish to thank the Secretary-General, the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) and participating international polling-station officers for their enormous effort and hard work. The international community must continue its support for the peace process and for the reconstruction of 32 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Cambodia. I can confirm Denmark’s commitment in that respect. This year, 1993, is the International Year of the World’s Indigenous People. The Government of Denmark wishes to promote indigenous peoples’ own organizations with a view to their full participation in political, economic, social and cultural life. In collaboration with the Home Rule Government of Greenland, we support all efforts to increase awareness of the special situation facing indigenous peoples, including the Inuit of Greenland. A particular concern of Denmark is that the indigenous peoples who have been permanent residents of the Arctic for millenniums are at risk from environmental degradation. On 16 September 1993 the Government of Denmark and the Home Rule Government of Greenland hosted the second Ministerial Conference on the Arctic Environment, at Nuuk, the capital of Greenland. In the Nuuk Declaration, adopted and signed at that Conference, the eight Arctic countries recognized the special role of indigenous peoples in environmental management and in development in the Arctic and the significance of their knowledge and traditional practices. The Government of Denmark will establish and fund a secretariat to promote the indigenous peoples’ effective participation in the Arctic Environmental Protection Strategy and in the achievement of sustainable development in the Arctic. In conclusion, let me state that there is no alternative to our United Nations. Only the United Nations has the necessary legitimacy to undertake humanitarian action, peace-keeping operations, the creation of an international tribunal, and assistance to suffering peoples around the world. At the same time, the need for reforms in the United Nations is evident. The job facing all of us as Member States is to agree in concrete terms on such reforms. We must show that behind the words spoken from this rostrum lies a will to enable the United Nations to serve the many functions we the peoples are asking for. It is both an honour and a pleasure for me to extend to representatives the warm greetings of the people of Chad and to express their sincere wishes for peace. Before conveying to Members the message of the Transition Government of the Republic of Chad, I should like to extend to you, Sir, my delegation’s congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I assure you that, in the discharge of this difficult task, you will have the ready and full cooperation of my delegation. I should like also to express to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, our gratitude for the dedication with which he conducted the work of the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session. Our thanks go also to our dynamic Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his continuing commendable and tireless efforts in the cause of peace and development throughout the world. 4 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session It is also a pleasure to welcome the delegations of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Eritrea, the Principality of Andorra and the Principality of Monaco. The forty-eighth session of the General Assembly is beginning at a time when clear hopes for peace in certain regions are emerging, yet war continues to cause unspeakable suffering elsewhere. Misery is increasing throughout the world, and the gap between the richest and the poorest continues to widen. Given these problems, the United Nations is increasingly called upon for assistance. Consequently, its capacity to react and to intervene is reduced. Concerted action by people of good will who love peace and freedom and who work to reduce poverty and misery and to advance democracy and human rights could help to limit the number of calls for assistance that are now being made on this Organization. Within this framework, Chad set out on the road to democracy in 1990. This deliberate choice was made in the light of the recent history of our country and the profound aspirations of our people to peace and social well-being. In this regard, the Sovereign National Conference that was held from 15 January to 7 April 1993, and brought together nearly 1,000 delegates from all regions and all social strata of the country, enabled us to lay the basis for the establishment of stable democratic institutions and to ensure lasting peace and good management of the country’s affairs. This National Conference, which instilled much hope in the hearts of the citizens of Chad, took the following steps in implementation of the Transitional Constitution: the President of the Republic, who is the guarantor of national sovereignty, was confirmed in office; the Prime Minister, who is the elected Head of Government, was put in charge of implementing the programme of action; the Supreme Council of Transition, the elected legislative body, was put in charge of follow-up action in connection with implementing the programme of action and was given the job of providing arbitration in the case of any disputes occurring during the transition. The National Conference intended, through this restructuring process, to give new direction to public life in Chad, providing transparent administration in public affairs, full freedom of the press and scrupulous respect for human rights. These indispensable corollaries of any democratic system are among the major concerns of the delegates. Here, the Supreme Council for Communication and the National Commission on Human Rights, which will be established soon, will guarantee freedom of the press and the fundamental rights of citizens. For all the participants in the National Conference, as for all the people of Chad, the time has come to make peace, to seek new solutions to the country’s problems, so that it will be possible to achieve genuine national reconciliation among all the sons of Chad. The Transition Government, which I have the signal honour of heading, is making sustained efforts to realize these objectives. Thus, it is trying to create the conditions necessary to the building of confidence among the people in the future of their country. The restructuring of the national army of Chad that is now taking place will eventually open the way to better control of public expenditure and will make possible the channelling of the country’s limited resources into the most productive sectors. Nor can any democratization be undertaken and made stable without security services capable of ensuring respect for the territorial integrity of the country. Above all, there is a need for a disciplined army that respects the Constitution of the Republic. My Government lacks the financial and other material means to succeed in this transformation of the national army of Chad. First and foremost we need to encourage elements of the army from the outset by financing projects for military reconversion and for reintegration into civilian life. In that connection, we warmly thank the French Republic for its assistance over the past three years. I wish also to renew our appeal to all countries that wish Chad to be genuinely transformed to help us with all possible assistance in this difficult task. Beyond the question of the success of the demobilization operation is the question of the future of democracy in Chad. Our democracy will be unable to withstand for long the many pressures resulting from all the various problems besetting our country. Hence, my country is working tirelessly to conclude agreements of reconciliation with the remaining opposition politico-military organizations. My Government is developing initiatives in the area of human rights, bolstering freedom of the press and establishing political parties and civic organizations. Despite that progress, cases of human rights violations continue in my country. This proves, if proof were needed, that it takes time to change ways of thinking, no matter what the clear will of the highest national authorities may be. Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993 5 There is no lack of obstacles for any young democracy. As it is said, democracy, poverty and insecurity are not good neighbours. At the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, my delegation drew attention to my country’s precarious economic situation. Apart from problems linked to uneven rainfall over our territory, to the threat of locusts and to fluctuations in the world economic situation, our economy is experiencing difficulties linked to poor administration. The resources of the State are insufficient to pay salaries and growing military expenditures. There is no guarantee that we will be able to afford the cost of materials and State contributions for investment in priority projects relating to infrastructure, health and education. The basic imbalances that characterize financial management in Chad - which explain the continued deterioration of our country’s social fabric - reflect those in other Central African economies covered by the Central African Customs and Economic Union (CACEU). Those countries had achieved notable growth in 1985, but since then have been in an unprecedented crisis. In the circumstances, my country - current Chairman of the CACEU Council of Heads of State - fully subscribes to the plan for subregional adjustment and economic recovery drawn up by the Central African States Development Bank, and hopes to benefit from the greater understanding and support of the international community. That support will give our Government a sound basis on which to implement, as it has declared its wish to do, a consistent programme of macroeconomic adjustment and structural reform, with the support of bilateral and multilateral donors. Already we can say that the major thrust of the reforms will be in the areas of improved public financing, the resumption of productive activities through reductions in the cost of the elements of production, rationalization of management, elimination of arrears in State debt, the promotion of a well-functioning private sector, and the implementation of monetary, fiscal, customs and institutional measures drawn up within the subregional framework of CACEU and the customs zone. My country, which has experienced the throes of war, cannot remain insensitive to the many conflicts that are tearing today’s world apart, claiming innocent lives everywhere. In Africa, we are concerned at the exacerbation of the situation in Somalia and Angola. Chad hopes that the firm position adopted by the United Nations on those two conflicts will help make those most responsible for the tragedies respect agreements they have signed. With respect to Mozambique, we are following with interest the peace process under way in that country, and we urge the two parties to cooperate fully and in a straightforward way to achieve peace. We also welcome the peace process that has begun in Rwanda, Liberia and South Africa, where in the months to come multiparty negotiations will lead to general elections, which we hope will be free and transparent. In the Middle East, the signature of a declaration of principles on Palestinian autonomy in Gaza and Jericho and mutual recognition by the Palestine Liberation Organization and the State of Israel give us hope that the peoples of that region will at last be able to live in peace. Dialogue and cooperation should guide future relations among the peoples of the region. Chad is convinced that only dialogue can restore peace to Central and Eastern Europe; we fully subscribe to the action taken by the international community to bring about a just and peaceful settlement of all the conflicts raging there. Today’s world economy is characterized by a structural crisis in the developed countries and by increasingly delayed development in the developing countries, particularly those of Africa. My country welcomes the convening of the international conference on African development, which is now under way on the initiative of the Government of Japan. We hope that the results of that meeting will be positive for Africa. On behalf of my Government, I convey deep gratitude to the Japanese Government for its initiative. My delegation hopes that the restructuring and revitalization of the economic and social structure of the United Nations will contribute to strengthening the Organization’s capacity to act. My delegation reaffirms its strong conviction that only dialogue and cooperation will enable us to overcome the numerous obstacles to the establishment of peace and harmony among peoples. It is in that spirit that my country has appealed to the International Court of Justice to settle its border dispute with the Socialist People’s Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Both parties have committed themselves to respect the judgment. Members will know from my remarks that my country is passing from a long, dark night of instability, dictatorship, human rights violations and economic set-backs. They will also know that the heroic struggle of the people of Chad has 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session led it onto the path of democracy; we want at all costs to stay on that road. My delegation affirms that forcefully. My people earnestly desires to make achievements leading to a major recovery in its political, economic and social situation, and has adopted an ambitious programme of change, which we did not have the means to implement fully in the six months remaining in the transition period. As they tirelessly pursue implementation, my country’s officials intend to focus all their efforts on certain pivotal objectives, which I shall enumerate now. First, we must ensure unswerving respect for human rights by guaranteeing the security of citizens; we must ensure freedom of communication, along with all individual freedoms and, above all, respect for the value of human life. We must banish the concept of impunity from our judicial system. To that end, and to ensure the safety of our citizens through a major reorganization of the police, we require support from the international community both in devising the action to be taken and in providing the means to do so. My Government’s second objective is the holding of free, open and democratic elections. The social crisis we have just described is creating inextricable problems for my Government, problems with serious and pressing implications. A country cannot be governed when there is constant pressure from the streets, nor can decisive efforts be focused on carrying out economic recovery if there is not a Government elected on the basis of a programme containing needed beneficial measures and if it does not have the support - or at least the understanding - of the people with regard to an economic and social plan. Thus, our Government intends to work on preparing for and holding free, open and democratic elections within the time- frame set out in the recommendations of the Sovereign National Conference. Here too, and above all, we will need the support of the international community. On that note, in evoking the basic aspiration of my people, I shall leave this rostrum today, having transmitted my country’s message of peace to the international community. Our aspiration to democratic change is, I feel, realistic and its implementation is, I believe, inevitable. Long live peace and dialogue between peoples! The United Nations is our Organization; we are its custodians, and we have to adjust to change. We have a huge responsibility to pass it on in better shape than we found it. Historians in future years will acknowledge this period of radical change. But what are the objectives of this Organization of ours in 1993? Well, they are not very difficult to enumerate, because they are set out for us and by us in the Preamble to the Charter, and they remain as valid today as they were when they were agreed in 1945. The first, of course, is peace, because without peace and security no human society can flourish; then human dignity, because if we do not treat each other with respect as individuals, we will not do so as nations; justice, because unless relations between nations are grounded in law, the powerful will always be able to triumph over the weak; social and economic progress, because without the sustained and sustainable development of our economies, all our other achievements will be as nothing. I believe that to this list we must now add the maintenance of a clean and attractive environment. We are learning, painfully, that our planet also has rights. We ignore them only at our peril. These are the foundations for the vision of what the world should be. In New Zealand, we would say that they give opportunities to all. When the United Nations came into existence almost 50 years ago, the vision was sharper than the reality, but the founders of the United Nations were certainly not deterred. They were at the watershed in the affairs of the world. They had just experienced the awful reality of a global conflict in which millions had died, and they were determined to do everything in their power to make sure that such a conflict could never occur again. They did build well. They embodied their vision not only in this Organization but also in a whole series of economic, financial, social and humanitarian institutions, and they gave it the only strength that counted: their sheer determination, as men and women from very different countries, to make it happen. Only the utmost patience and perseverance has kept that dream and that determination alive through most of the 50 years since 1945. Progress has been slow and it has been halting. Some great things were done, but too often the Members of the United Nations could agree only at the lowest common denominator, a reflection of the political gaps and strains within the United Nations membership. There are, however, four reasons why I believe that that long, grey era has closed. The first is that the cold war, that shadow and threat of a global conflict, is now over. Freed of that constraint, the United Nations can operate, as it was intended that it should, as the ultimate guardian of the security of all its Members, the ultimate arbiter of world peace. Secondly, democracy, one of the most effective guarantors of peace between nations, is spreading. We welcome the establishment of democratic institutions and processes in countries that have for too long been without them. The third point is that in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations, the world has a major opportunity to turn its back on protectionism and lock in the prospects for economic growth through trade and other forms of economic integration. Freedom and free trade go hand in hand. Fourthly, and last, the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro and Agenda 21 contain a global consensus, a universal determination to act to preserve our environment. This combination of developments marks a new watershed; if we are to keep faith with the founders of this Organization, we must do what they did in 1945 at their watershed, and build well, not just for ourselves, but of course for those who follow. On the issue of security and peacemaking, the first point that I raised was that the elimination of confrontation between the super-Powers has opened up new possibilities for the practice of collective security and peacemaking. The unfortunate consequence of 50 years of super-Power confrontation is, paradoxically, that we are not yet very good at working together: like a novice sports team, we are really rather uncoordinated, sadly lacking in strategy, sadly lacking in team skills or knowledge of the new rules, and sadly lacking in collective determination. We cannot correct these deficiencies overnight, but we must keep on trying to improve. Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 39 The other paradox is that peace has not broken out simply because the former Soviet Union and the United States have stopped squaring off against each other. There have been unexpected consequences: some would liken the result to taking the lid off a pressure-cooker. Conflicts, internal and between neighbours, seem to have burst out everywhere. These consequences, in human terms, are horrific. So here we are, in the United Nations, underresourced, undertrained and facing an enormous peacemaking, peace- building and peace-keeping challenge. We really have no alternative to learning as we go, and I believe that we are doing so. During the past year, I have spoken to soldiers and relief workers in the field in United Nations missions as widely spread as Somalia and Croatia, and I pay my highest tribute to their dedication under some of the most adverse circumstances. United Nations people are trying there, as elsewhere, to create conditions where their work will ultimately no longer be required. They are actually trying to do themselves out of a job. The Secretary-General’s document 'An Agenda for Peace' is now in a consolidation phase. The problems are clear: rising expectations; machinery due for reform; lack of funds; and the lack of ready, well-trained and well-equipped forces. Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali has already made some thoughtful proposals, including sending teams to Member States to help identify in advance resources available for the United Nations operations. New Zealand is willing to respond positively to this approach. The Secretary-General has also made organizational changes in the Headquarters departments that support peace- keeping. The revamping of the Department of Peace- Keeping Operations is a very good start, providing we recognize that we need more than just a shifting of the resources. The new philosophy of peace-building and peacemaking must work in tandem with the well-tried and successful peace-keeping philosophy of the past. On the issue of safety and security of United Nations personnel, recent peace-keeping operations have highlighted the risks to United Nations personnel working in dangerous and unstable situations. That does not help the recruitment of peace-keepers, and it does not help the recruitment of contributing countries. The United Nations must have the means to hold personally responsible and accountable those who attack or commit other acts of violence against the United Nations and associated personnel. Earlier this year the New Zealand Government took the initial step of calling for all possible measures to ensure the safety of United Nations personnel. We asked the Secretary- General to report on the adequacy of existing arrangements. His report makes a number of positive recommendations. He has highlighted the need for the General Assembly to elaborate a new multilateral instrument on the role the Security Council might play in setting the appropriate conditions designed to improve the safety of personnel. I was very pleased just this afternoon to participate in a Security Council meeting that adopted a resolution welcoming the Secretary-General’s report and spelling out the conditions the Council will impose in the future for the protection of United Nations personnel. I was also delighted that the General Assembly last week agreed to New Zealand’s proposal to include a new item on the safety of personnel in this year’s agenda. I hope that the Sixth Committee will establish a working group to consider the issue and make urgent progress. I hope the subject will also be very fully discussed in all other relevant United Nations bodies. Of course, any mechanisms for protecting peace-keepers must also require that parties to any conflict respect the integrity of those personnel that have been deployed on their behalf. Such an undertaking should, in principle, form part of the mandate for any peace-keeping operation. The recent practice of the Security Council of establishing clear mandates for peace-keeping operations at the outset of deployment is especially welcome, but there remains an onus on a host State both to explain carefully to its people the reason for the United Nations presence and also to take active steps to ensure the safety of United Nations personnel. But the purpose of peace-keeping or peacemaking and peace-building is not solely to deal with conflicts that have already arisen, urgent though that task is. We must improve our capacity to prevent conflicts before they break out, and I should like to acknowledge here the importance and timeliness of recent improvements in conflict-resolution mechanisms and the ongoing work on preventive diplomacy. I welcome very warmly the contribution made by my Australian colleague, Senator Gareth Evans, to the debate on this subject. He has given us much food for thought and some helpful suggestions for concrete steps we can take to improve our performance in this area. 40 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Disarmament measures remain a key element in conflict prevention. This year, as the international community moves towards the extension - I hope for an indefinite period - of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the Assembly will have non-proliferation as one of its major themes. In this regard, North Korea’s continued evasion of its responsibilities under that Treaty demands a firm international response. We welcome very strongly the restraint being shown by the nuclear-weapon States on testing and their positive attitude towards the launching of negotiations for a comprehensive test-ban treaty. It is not before time. New Zealand has sponsored a draft resolution on comprehensive test-bans for many years. Its purpose now is on the brink of fulfillment. The subject needs to be taken up in the Conference on Disarmament. Given the importance of the tasks now on the agenda of the Conference on Disarmament, membership of the Conference must be open to all who have the will to participate constructively. In respect of conventional weaponry, we applaud the enhancement of controls through the commencement of the Register of conventional-arms transfers. We now have a chemical weapons Convention in place alongside the biological weapons Convention. It is timely to consider what similar work can be done in respect of conventional weapons. As disarmament moves from the realms of Utopia into the achievable, we must lend every effort, here in the United Nations and outside it, to ensure disarmament’s more rapid progress. No sensible proposal should be discarded simply for outdated ideological reasons. The spread of democratic institutions to every corner of the globe is, I believe, one of the most encouraging phenomena of recent years, and the pace is astonishing. In the space of just 24 hours last week, the Parliament of Israel approved a Declaration of Principles on Palestinian self- government; the Parliament of South Africa enacted legislation establishing the Transitional Executive Council to take charge of that country until a democratically elected Government is in office; and a constitutional Government took office in Cambodia. We welcome these historic events and the promise they hold for a more just and prosperous existence for the peoples of those nations. As delegations will remember, the Middle East and South Africa dominated the political agenda of the Assembly for many years. These positive developments in both regions will give a new cast to the Assembly’s deliberations. We can also take heart from progress on another front of long-standing concern to the Assembly. The United Nations is now three years into the International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism. The good news is that we are already seeing evidence that the goals and objectives of the United Nations in this area are almost completely realized. The number of Self-Governing Territories on the United Nations list is now very small, and many of these are exploring innovative ways to complete the decolonization process. The recent United Nations Seminar on Colonialism, held in Papua-New Guinea in June, confirmed this trend. It also revealed that in some cases some very small Non-Self- Governing Territories do not want fundamental constitutional change thrust upon them. New Zealand has always been a strong advocate of the principle that in all cases decisions on self-determination are, of course, for the local people to make. We are comfortable with the notion that certain Territories, such as the Tokelaus, may finally choose to develop concepts of self-government and free association that further develop models that have already been successfully employed for other very small former Territories. In that connection, and consistent with New Zealand’s principled approach to all matters of decolonization, I am pleased to confirm that the New Zealand Government and the people of the Tokelaus have extended an invitation to the United Nations to send a further visiting mission to the Tokelaus early in 1994 to meet local leaders and, of course, discuss recent developments. Democracy is a sure foundation for peace between nations. It is the political expression of that universal respect for human rights to which we are all committed. The Vienna Declaration and Plan of Action arising out of this year’s World Conference on Human Rights gives some direction to steps the Organization can take to strengthen the observance of human rights. I believe we should move quickly to approve a high commissioner for human rights. The United Nations needs an officer with a mandate to play a constructive role in preventing, monitoring and alleviating human rights abuses throughout the world. The Centre for Human Rights should be given the resources to match the immense task it will have before it. There is a clear need for an enhanced programme of advisory services and technical assistance to Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 41 help countries build up their national human rights infrastructure. Human rights is also about recognizing the rights of peoples to self-identity. In this, the International Year for the World’s Indigenous People, I would like to support a proposal that the United Nations declare a decade for indigenous peoples. We need to build on what has been achieved, first at Rio de Janeiro and subsequently during the International Year world wide. This is a long-term task. It will require a sustained and very coordinated effort. Unhappily, our task is not just to enhance the observance of human rights. In this last decade of the twentieth century, we seem at times to be actually moving backwards, witnessing the abuse and deprivation of human rights on a scale that we really believed we had put a long way behind us. The suffering of millions of refugees displaced by conflict is beyond our comprehension but cannot and should not be beyond our compassion. This dimension is starkly evident in nearly every issue now before the Security Council. Last June, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees put the figure at 19 million people - 19 million displaced people around the world - and it continues to rise. It is appropriate to pay a special tribute to Mrs. Ogata and her staff for the way in which they are meeting, often in dangerous and trying circumstances, the challenges which this problem brings. New Zealand has responded to these increased demands by making a special provision for refugees from Bosnia, Somalia and Cambodia by establishing special programmes for particularly vulnerable groups, such as women at risk, and by providing aid. We now have one of the highest per capita resettlement ratios in the world. But this is, of course, addressing the symptoms, not the cause. The ultimate objective must be to create or recreate conditions that allow refugees to return in safety and dignity to their own homes and homelands. Nor can we neglect the need to bring to justice those who have brought about such suffering. The establishment of a war crimes Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia is certainly a central pillar in the international response to this particular conflict. The full achievement of the Tribunal’s mandate is of the highest priority. At the same time, and in a broader context, New Zealand also welcomes the consideration being given to the creation of an international criminal court. We would like to see further progress on this issue made during this session of the Assembly. Sustainable economic growth for all countries is essential for stability and peace in the world. A principal determinant for that is an open, healthy and international trading system, a system that encourages closer economic relations and strengthened North-South exchanges. There is no greater assistance developed countries can give to the developing countries than to open their markets. A satisfactory conclusion to the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations would be of immense benefit to us all and has been mentioned, I believe, by just about every speaker on this rostrum during this debate. Progress to that end in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, of course, has been slow, as we know. Many deadlines have come and many deadlines have gone without resolution. We should not be under any illusion. Come this December, after seven years of negotiations on the Uruguay Round, either we will have the liberalization of multilateral trade with a benefit to all or the prospects of avoiding global economic warfare will have suffered the most serious setback. The New Zealand Government sees the purpose of these negotiations being to lock in place today the politically attainable, and to build on what might be possible tomorrow. In preparing for that, we also have to focus our attention on what is needed to ensure that all countries are placed where they can reap the benefits of the future. We still have much to follow up from the Rio Conference on Environment and Development. But time is not on our side. Environmental degradation continues to pose a serious threat to the planet and its resources, and no country - no country - is immune from its impact. The levels of responsibility for environmental damage may differ from country to country, but we must face up to their consequences together. We must meet the objectives of Agenda 21 and the Rio Declaration. All countries should move to ratify the climate and biodiversity Conventions, a step that New Zealand took just recently. New Zealand will contribute to the global environmental facility that is to fund both of those Conventions. We have begun work to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and are developing a comprehensive strategy for reducing net greenhouse gas emissions. We are also making excellent progress on phasing out consumption of ozone-depleting chemicals. New Zealand is ready to share its expertise on biological diversity with other countries to assist them in meeting obligations under the Conventions. I suppose that one of the most useful exercises that we can conclude here is to draw some lessons from the experiences and views that I have set out. The most obvious 42 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session one to me is that, however important it is to deal with the particularities of human aspirations for peace, respect for the individual, economic well-being and a good, clean environment, one should never lose sight of the connections between them all. The Secretary-General has pointed out how peace, development and democracy form a mutually reinforcing circle, and we agree. Getting the linkages right can be as important for success as the elements of each. Peace and security are not likely to be soundly based if people are hungry. Economic growth cannot last if the natural resources used to create it are not conserved. People are not likely to make the effort required by economic restructuring if the important choices are made for them. Economic growth cannot be sustained if countries keep coming up with new pretexts, such as environmental protection, to justify excluding outside competition from their own markets. Human aspirations and human security must be seen in the round. That is one of the major challenges facing the membership of this Organization. The work done by the United Nations in post-peace-keeping situations, I believe, deserves renewed attention. For those countries where there is still a need to foster economic, political and social development, we should look at establishing a partnership arrangement between the United Nations and the sovereign Government. A coordinating body comprising the Governments and a group of friends of the Secretariat could help to ensure that the gains of peace-keeping are taken through to reconstruction. I believe that we need a new institutional framework to graduate problems out of the security area and into a forum more able to cope with the needs of redevelopment and reconstruction. The second lesson is that we need to keep looking at how well the United Nations is fitted to meet the challenges it is facing and be prepared to change it where necessary. Membership of the United Nations has continued to grow and I warmly welcome the newest Member States. Many speakers have referred to Security Council reform. The Security Council is in need of early reform. We support a modest increase in membership and a fresh look at the institution as a whole. The possibility of some members representing regional groupings for, say, a 10-year period is worth considering. New Zealand will continue to oppose any extension of veto rights. Another imperative is for the Council’s work methods to be improved. Wider consultation with the broader membership of the United Nations is essential. United Nations agencies are also ripe for restructuring. The General Assembly has made a good start on itself. We have streamlined the Committees, but we also must streamline the overall workload. It is unmanageable at present. For several years now, we have been looking hard at ways to fund new demands on the Organization by making compensating savings elsewhere. We still need to ask hard questions about whether all that has been done traditionally still needs to be done. I welcome the fact that the Secretary- General’s budget proposals already envisage some major steps in this area. He has also identified better contracting as a source of further savings. At the end of the day, however, all that can be done to increase efficiency and cut costs will come to naught if the financial commitment by Member States is lacking. New Zealand pays its dues on time; most others do not. I urge them to do so. Let us certainly go on talking about financial reform, but let us also secure the financial basis of the Organization while we are doing so. But what is the real dream that all of us have? I would urge all members to keep making, from year to year, real progress towards satisfying those basic human aspirations I mentioned at the outset and to do so with a strong, well- equipped and well-focused United Nations. Specifically, I want to see a reshaped Security Council, a more tightly focused General Assembly, better peace-keeping practice, a Secretariat equipped to handle peace-building and partnership arrangements, and financial arrangements built on efficiency and punctuality. Would that not give a point to the fiftieth anniversary celebrations that lie ahead in 1995, and would it not make the United Nations of the next 50 years a more effective, more dynamic and exciting place to do the world’s business in than the conditions of the last 50 years have allowed? The deprived of this world expect no less. The well-off know the world is too small for the huge gap that now exists amongst all people to remain. Please accept my warmest congratulations, Sir, upon your election to preside over the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I am certain that your election will contribute to its success. This session of the General Assembly takes place two years before we are to celebrate the Organization’s fiftieth anniversary. We long had to navigate through the stormy waters of the cold war and ideological confrontation. It was not an easy task. However, today’s world is different from that of the signatories of the United Nations Charter. East- West détente has given us renewed hopes, though we have still not won the war against poverty and social marginalization. Our main goal should be to make those hopes a reality, if we wish to build a society where not only a just peace but peaceful justice prevail. Obviously, the reorganization of the Security Council is not an easy task, and it becomes even more difficult if we take into account the fact that, since the very moment the San Francisco Charter was signed, the Council has been made up of permanent and non-permanent members, and that the right of veto extended to the permanent members has given rise, among other things, to their being accused, with some justification, of attacking the principle of the legal equality of States. The Republic of Panama is of the opinion that if the Security Council is to be reorganized, the reorganization must be carried out in such a way that the representation on the Council of all United Nations Members is equitable. Therefore, any reorganization must promote fair participation for the developing States, as the situations that used to be given as explanations for the way the Council was composed and for the right of veto have disappeared now that there is East-West détente. Drug addiction has become the main scourge of humanity. The Republic of Panama, like all States, therefore has the duty to repress drug trafficking and the resulting money-laundering activities on its territory, and to help repress these illegal activities in all States. Panama, aware of these responsibilities and of the fact that the effective repression of drug-related crimes makes international cooperation necessary, on 11 April 1991 Panama and the United States of America signed a Treaty on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Affairs, which was ratified by the Panamanian Legislative Assembly on 11 July 1991. The Treaty is currently awaiting the consent of the United States Senate before the effects we expect from it can begin to be felt. On 1 March 1993, Panama and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland signed the Agreement on Mutual Legal Cooperation on Drug Trafficking, which must first be approved by the Panamanian Legislative Assembly before it too can be ratified. In addition, and at Panama’s Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 5 request, the Central American countries have agreed to sign a similar treaty, which will be opened to accession by all the Latin American countries. Also, the Panamanian Executive Branch has submitted the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances to the Panamanian Legislative Assembly for its consideration; we are convinced that, once it is ratified, we shall have at our disposal a valuable instrument in our struggle against drug-related crime. Human rights and fundamental freedoms do not come as a generous concession from a State or its authorities. They are inherent to the human person, regardless of political, social, racial, religious or any other factor. Those rights and freedoms are therefore inseparable, and must be recognized and respected. The fact that those rights and freedoms are inherent to the human person affords them a universality and indivisibility that must be strengthened. Violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms do not only attack the person whose rights and fundamental freedoms have been trampled on; they also attack institutional stability, the constitutional order and the rule of law. This is so because the person whose rights and freedoms have been disregarded is inclined towards insurrection or at least towards personal revenge, the private vengeance of the eye-for-an-eye principle. Respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, or violations of them, must therefore be examined not only as a problem that affects individual interests but rather in a much wider context, as a problem that affects society in general. This is why most of the insurrections, rebellions and fratricidal conflicts have their origins in violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms to the detriment of large swathes of the population. Such violations often stem from a lack of democracy, from the absence of the rule of law, from extreme poverty and from social marginalization. While on the subject of lack of democracy, I wish to state that, under the United Nations Charter, a purpose of this Organization is 'To develop friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples ...'. In conformity with the principle of self-determination, all countries can adopt the form of government that best suits them. However, by allowing dictatorial regimes to exist, the international community takes away all the principle’s force. The thing is that sovereignty - and the same can be said of self-determination - can be harmed otherwise than by the acts of outside States. They can also be violated by a State’s own nationals, when they place themselves above the popular will, as has often occurred; dictatorships have disregarded just this principle of self-determination and have so violated human rights. This is so because the only source of public power is the people. When a dictatorship disregards the principle of self- determination or the peoples’ sovereignty - which occurs every time a people is denied its inalienable right to adopt the form of government that best suits its interests - it violates sovereignty, and the principle of self-determination, inasmuch as the State’s power to act does not have its source in the people: it has its source in those who hold public power with no more legitimacy - if it can be called 'legitimacy' - than the force of arms. In addition, when a dictatorship disregards human rights, it deprives the inhabitants of the State, the people, from whom sovereignty and self-determination flow, of rights that every State must accord its citizens simply because they are human persons. I have allowed myself to briefly address the principle of self-determination because I am convinced that a clear understanding of this principle will contribute towards strengthening its legal force, to the benefit of democracy and the rule of law. The situation Haiti is going through is worrying. The Governors Island Agreement provides that, by the 30th of this month, the constitutional President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, must once again occupy the presidential throne. However, the de facto Government would appear to be more intent on provoking violence than promoting the re- establishment of the constitutional order. Since 3 July, 11 people have been given their quietus, including the pro- democracy activist Antoine Izmeri, whose struggle merits recognition throughout the Americas. The Republic of Panama believes that the agreement between the constitutional Government and the chief of the Haitian Army must be fulfilled, and hopes that the Organization, striving to live up to the principles that inspire it, will ensure that it is. Recognition of the State of Israel within secure and recognized borders and the establishment of a Palestinian State are acts of justice restored which international peace and security make essential. Therefore, the Republic of Panama cannot be indifferent to the Declaration of Principles signed by Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session (PLO) on 13 September, or to the agreement on provisional autonomy for the Gaza Strip and Jericho. Since the formation of the State of Israel, Israelis and Palestinians have been victims of all the damage that incomprehension and intolerance can cause. The confrontational relationship between these two peoples blinded by hatred is summarized in the 45 years of tears, pain and death. However, the wars and exoduses of 1948, 1956, 1967 and 1973, with their consequences of grief and suffering, should now serve as evidence of the benefits of peace. Therefore, a peace agreement between Israelis and Palestinians should become a goal for the United Nations. The atmosphere of détente to which I have already referred should foster the universality of representation in this multilateral Organization. Consequently I am gratified to see that many States that have never traditionally had an active international life, such as Andorra, Liechtenstein, Monaco and San Marino - to mention only a few States enclaved in the European continent - have felt the need to join and support us in the important tasks we are resolved to accomplish. It is in that spirit of universality that Panama has supported and continues to support the initiative designed to study now and in the future, with innovative ideas and goodwill, the situation of the largest human group that has no voice in this body: the 21 million inhabitants of the island of Taiwan. The Central American countries are striving to build a peaceful, free, democratic and developing region. For that reason, the efforts to bolster peace that have been initiated require actions capable of solving our economic, social, cultural and humanitarian problems in order to strengthen our peoples’ faith in democracy. The endeavours to achieve democracy, national reconciliation and development in the region are obvious. But in order to continue making these efforts we require the cooperation of all States that believe in democracy, justice and freedom. Therefore, associating myself with the initiative presented by the Ibero-American Heads of State and Government in Salvador, Brazil, I call on States and international organizations to cooperate effectively with the Central American Integration System (SICA) so that it can promote and strengthen sustained subregional cooperation and attain its fundamental goal. The ability of we who inhabit the vast territories south of the Rio Bravo to communicate with each other and with Spain in the same language - a Nicaraguan poet once called them the countries that love Christ and speak Spanish - has created an Ibero-American community which today, in meetings of Heads of State and Government, and together with Brazil and Portugal, is determined to focus its strength on the future, guided by the desire to take full advantage of the similarities which bring us together to consolidate opportunities for cooperation and solidarity. This should be gratifying to the whole of the Ibero-American community, since our faith in the future is becoming increasingly obvious at each Summit. The first Summit, in Guadalajara, created the forum of Heads of State and Government; at the second and third Summits, in Madrid and Salvador, respectively, we saw the initial results of these commendable initiatives. It is also appropriate here to note that the Final Document of the third Summit states: 'Without prejudice to the spheres of competence of specialized international forums, the United Nations General Assembly should focus its international development cooperation policy on securing greater access for developing countries to world markets, adequate forms of finance and modern technology. This will make it possible to overcome the obstacles to development and, while benefiting the developing countries, will also open up economic opportunities for the industrialized countries, thereby easing the migratory pressures exerted on them by those legitimately seeking ways to improve their standard of living.' (A/48/291, para. 14) I would feel most fortunate if the General Assembly were to listen attentively to the demands of the Ibero-American community, which feels that most of the products of its member States have been repeatedly denied increased access to markets which have been traditionally accessible, as in the case of bananas in the European Community, as well as access to financing and modern technology. For our part, the Ibero-American States should be resolved to put our financial situations in order and not depend on the marketing of a few products, and we should improve the quality of our educational systems, in order to attain greater economic stability. The Ibero-American countries should also resolve to turn the cooperation and solidarity mentioned in the Final Document into sincere and honest cooperation and solidarity, and not mere rhetoric, as is so often the case. Only in that way will we be able to profit to the full from the affinities that we share. Panama will be the host country of the Summit of the Ibero-American Heads of State and Government in the year 2000. This event will unquestionably have great significance for my country. It will take place precisely at a time when Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 7 the Panamanian people have attained their most important legal and political objective: recovering their rights over the Panama Canal and freeing their territory from the jurisdictional limitations imposed by the ill-fated Hay-Bunau Varilla Treaty. That is so because the present Panama Canal Treaty will expire on 31 December 1999. Consequently, the Republic of Panama will then manage, operate and maintain the Panama Canal. All the real estate, fixture improvements and equipment that the United States of America will be using until the end of the validity of the Treaty will revert to Panama. One of the Panamanian people’s greatest wishes will thus come true on 31 December 1999. However, as important as achieving this legal and political objective may be, it is the good or bad use we make of the Canal and the areas that revert to us that will mark our future in a positive or negative way. Thus, it is our duty as a nation to manage the Canal wisely and to use in the best possible way the areas that revert to us. For that reason Law No. 5 of 1993 created the Authority of the Panamanian Interoceanic Region, with the objective of improving the use of the assets that are reverting and will revert to Panama between now and the year 2000. Similarly, on 6 September 1993 a draft bill for constitutional reform was submitted to the Panamanian Legislative Assembly; it is designed to add a new article to Panama’s political Constitution which will create the Panama Canal Authority, whose main function will be to manage and operate the Canal. That will ensure that the Authority will not be affected by any political shifts. Thus, the Republic of Panama is preparing to manage, operate and maintain the Panama Canal from 31 December 1999. This task will be all the easier because the current Canal Administrator, and 87.7 per cent of the Panama Canal Commission employees are Panamanians, not counting those with dual nationality. On the basis of the Panama Canal Treaty, Panama and the United States agreed in 1982 to create the Preparatory Commission to prepare the points of reference for the feasibility studies of a sea-level canal in Panama and other alternatives to the Panama Canal. They also agreed to invite Japan to be a full member of this Commission, an invitation Japan accepted. These three States created the Commission for the Study of Alternatives to the Panama Canal. On 20 September last, this Commission presented its final report, a Joint Statement of Commission Members, which indicates that the 'current Panama Canal with the widening of the Gaillard Cut seems to be able to meet the needs of international maritime trade until the end of the second decade of the twenty-first century. However,' the statement continues, 'before the year 2000 measures should be taken to prepare the canal for the time when the current Panama Canal will not be able to take care of the projected traffic.' Such measures include 'future studies to firmly establish the dates when improvements will become necessary in order to start planning the required environmental studies involved in the final engineering design and the initiation of the construction'. According to the aforementioned report, the results of the study indicate that the alternative of high-level locks, with one lane of maritime traffic at the Gaillard Cut, operating jointly with the current canal and capable of handling ships of 200,000 dead-weight tonnage, is marginally feasible. In order to handle the projected traffic with the same efficiency during the twenty-first century as it has been handled since the opening of the Canal on 15 August 1914, if not with even greater efficiency, the aforementioned system of high-level locks will have to be built in time to begin operating by the year 2020. As it does not have the necessary resources to complete such a project, Panama believes that the cooperation of the members of the international community - primarily those who use the Canal - is essential. We hope to receive that cooperation, for the sake of the well-being of the Panama Canal users who so urgently require it. At the beginning of my statement I referred to the fact that we are two years from the golden anniversary of this Organization. We should prepare to celebrate that great event by affirming, as its founders in San Francisco wished, 'faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small' and by promoting 'social progress' and 'better standards of life in larger freedom'. Botswana and Guyana have, since their attainment of independence, both in 1966, been the closest of friends. That is why we have welcomed the election of Ambassador Insanally of Guyana to the presidency of the forty-eighth session with so much warmth and anticipation. I say 'anticipation' because we are confident that he has the requisite experience, expertise and diplomatic finesse to make a good and productive President for this most hopeful session of the Organization. Our gratitude goes to the outgoing President of the forty-seventh session, the Foreign Minister of Bulgaria, who gave the best account of his skills in the service of the Assembly last year. 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The new Members who have just joined the United Nations are most welcome in our midst. We assure them of our fellowship and readiness to cooperate with them in the service of peace here at the United Nations. We also wish to congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, on the creative dynamism he has injected into the work of the United Nations. We know his work has not been easy. But under his able leadership the United Nations has indeed demonstrated its capacity to serve as a reliable instrument of impartial management of international conflicts. Increasingly, we are seeing the fulfilment of the ideas contained in what I think was the most forward-looking report ever produced by a Secretary- General of this Organization, 'An Agenda for Peace'. Mr. Ansari (India), Vice-President, took the Chair. We commend the efforts the Secretary-General has undertaken so far to enhance the Organization’s effectiveness. Botswana understands the concerns raised by the Secretary-General when he addressed the Fifth Committee in August. Many demands and problems foisted on the United Nations have put a lot of strain on its coffers. Resources made available by Member States are far from enough to meet these demands. Thus, the Organization is facing a financial crisis of unprecedented magnitude. The biggest problem, as explained by the Secretary-General, is the failure of some Member States to fulfil their financial obligations by paying the assessed contribution for both the regular budget and peace-keeping missions. Member States must heed the Secretary-General’s call and fulfil their Charter obligations by paying their contributions in full and on time. At the same time, it would be remiss of me not to emphasize the need and importance of transparency and accountability in the use of United Nations funds. Of late, we have heard of many irregularities in the administration of this Organization’s funds, in particular funds for peace- keeping missions. A number of proposals have been put forward by the various Member States for a review of the rules and regulations governing United Nations finances. The time has come to set up a respectable mechanism to undertake this urgent task. Although the cold war is no more and old ideological empires have unravelled, the euphoria of triumphalism has been short-lived. There is turmoil almost everywhere as age-old nationalisms that have for so long been suppressed explode with a vengeance that knows no limit. True to character, the twentieth century will not, so it seems, fade away peacefully. The post-cold-war era and the celebrated onset of a new world order have thus not brought peace to our world, but more bloodshed, instability and insecurity in many places. Consequently, there has been a rapid expansion of United Nations peace-keeping operations - far beyond the capacity of the Organization’s resources to manage. There is neither the manpower nor the financial wherewithal for the United Nations to be everywhere in the magnitude of presence that is so often requested. There is, nevertheless, every reason for us to be satisfied with the valiant efforts which the Secretary-General and his staff have exerted to ensure that the many fires of civil war that have become such dominant features of the so-called new world order do not engulf us all. The United Nations has shown that, given the wherewithal, it can live up to what we expect of it in the realm of peacemaking and peace-keeping. Cambodia has just been saved from self-destruction. Imagine what Somalia could have become had the United States and the United Nations not intervened to safeguard the delivery of the massive humanitarian assistance which the international community has poured into the famished country. Even in the Balkans, where the most brutal and senseless civil war imaginable is in progress, particularly in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina - a civil war that for a year and a half has been defying every solution attempted - the United Nations has played a mitigating humanitarian role under the most difficult of operational circumstances. On Somalia, Botswana stands firm in its support for the United Nations mission of mercy in that devastated country. We condemn in the strongest terms the continued attack on United Nations peace-keeping forces even as we deeply regret the loss of innocent Somali lives. We cannot condone the massive loss of civilian lives in Mogadishu, though at the same time we need to be extremely circumspect in apportioning blame to one side of the conflict or the other. An international effort to save a people is in serious jeopardy. An attack on United Nations peace-keeping forces must never be taken lightly, for it is fraught with very serious implications. The horrendous spectacle of the corpse of a United Nations peace-keeper being dragged like a garbage bag on the streets of Mogadishu deserves all the opprobrium civilized humanity can heap on such a callous act of inhumanity. The international community must not flinch in the face of the acts of those in Mogadishu who are bent on thwarting the process of reconstruction and rehabilitation in Somalia. In many ways, the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM) has been a success. Botswana is proud to have made a contribution to UNOSOM, however modest. Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 15 The terrible civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a monumental outrage that must shame us all as human beings. A world that is able to tolerate scenes of tiny innocent children being torn to pieces or maimed by shrapnel and bullets - innocent and helpless victims of a war that makes sense only to its perpetrators - is a world without a conscience. The international community must devise more creative ways and means of dealing effectively with that savage conflict. To turn to our own continent, in Mozambique there is an encouraging movement towards peace and tranquility. The situation there has stabilized enough to give us more hope than ever before that the war-ravaged sister country will soon enjoy the beginnings of economic recovery and national reconciliation and healing. Humanitarian relief is now able to reach the famine-stricken. The United Nations peace-keeping force, among which is our own contingent, is progressively moving towards full deployment and the accomplishment of its mandate. It is hoped that the many cease-fire violations thus far recorded will not sabotage the peace process. The survival of the State and nation of Angola is in very serious jeopardy as the senseless civil war that has been raging there since the mid-1970s has worsened and assumed the dimensions of an unstoppable conflagration. All the efforts of the Security Council to find a lasting solution to the civil war have come to naught as a result of Mr. Savimbi’s stubborn refusal to negotiate a peaceful end to the conflict. Unfortunately, in the face of this stubbornness on the part of Mr. Savimbi, the world seems utterly incapable of doing anything more than calling continuously for peaceful negotiations - a call that is continuously scorned. The international community must do more to save Angola. A terrible crime against humanity is being perpetrated against the Angolan people. We take note of the recent announcement by UNITA that it is ready to accept the Bicesse Accords and the results of the 1992 elections. The Government has in principle agreed to the resumption of peace talks. We hope that this time the peace talks, if they take place, will produce the solution we have been desperately waiting for. In South Africa, the horizon of change is more promising than ever before. Negotiations for a new South Africa have been torturously slow and painful, but they have, in a stunning reversal of fortune, produced the first tangible evidence of the onset of real and meaningful change. The legislative structures that are to underpin the transition to the establishment of a democratic Government in the first half of next year are in place. Four bills - namely, those regarding the Independent Election Commission, the Independent Media Commission, the Independent Broadcasting Authority and the Transitional Executive Council - have been adopted by the Negotiating Council and will soon be enacted into law, having been passed by the South African Parliament. Once the transitional legislative package has been completed with the adoption of the interim constitution and the constitutional principles and fundamental rights at present under negotiation, the transition will officially begin with the installation of the Transitional Executive Council. To show the great promise that the situation in South Africa holds today, I can do no better than quote Mr. Nelson Mandela’s momentous speech of 24 September to the United Nations Special Committee against Apartheid. He said, 'The countdown to democracy has begun. The date for the demise of the white minority regime has been determined, agreed and set'. In its statement of 29 September 1993 the Ad Hoc Committee of the Organization of African Unity on Southern Africa concurred that enough progress had been made in the peace process in South Africa to warrant the lifting of economic sanctions. This was a momentous decision taken by Africa in the ardent belief and hope that we are truly approaching a historic watershed in the blood-stained history of southern Africa: the end at last of the long nightmare of apartheid. However, as Mr. Mandela and the Secretary General of the Pan-Africanist Congress of Azania, Mr. Benny Alexander, have conceded, freedom is not yet there. With all the horrific violence now ravaging the KwaZulu countryside and the East Rand townships, in the back yard of the World Trade Centre in Johannesburg, where the negotiations are taking place, the process does not lack enemies or detractors. There is also the unfortunate boycott of the negotiation process by some parties, whose implications it is impossible to ascertain. Nevertheless, the people of South Africa, more than ever before, will need and, indeed, deserve our determined companionship as they walk the last and, possibly, the most difficult mile in their journey to the new South Africa. Regrettably, progress, if any, has been very slow in the implementation of the United Nations plan on Western Sahara. We urge the Secretary-General to continue to spare no effort to ensure that the referendum is held so that the people of Western Sahara can at long last decide their future. Botswana is encouraged by the readiness of all parties to the Liberian conflict to honour their commitments to the Yamoussoukro Accords and other subsequent peace plans. 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session We are anxious to see the Accords implemented peacefully and in full. The Secretary- General, in his last report on the subject (S/26422), notes that a successful implementation of the Accords would require sufficient resources. We appeal to all Member States to be generous in their contributions to the trust fund set up for this purpose. It is with a sigh of relief that we welcome the adoption of Security Council resolution 872 (1993) on Rwanda. We appeal to all the parties to the conflict in Rwanda to cooperate fully with the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR) in ensuring that that war-torn East African sister country does not revert to the carnage that has often threatened its very existence. We celebrate the triumph of the democratic process in the south-eastern Asian nation of Cambodia. The shroud of misery and death that for many years eclipsed Cambodia has, hopefully, now been lifted, and lifted forever. We congratulate the United Nations and the Cambodians on a job well done. 89.56 per cent of Cambodian voters, undaunted by violence and threats of violence, have spoken loud and clear that they want peace and reconciliation. In the Middle East, the homeland of the Bible and its miracles, we have recently witnessed a miraculous rapprochement between the Jewish people of Israel and the Palestinian people. The foundations of peace in the area have been laid, and no effort should be spared to build on them. No effort should be spared in making the peace process only just begun a just, comprehensive and lasting one. Given the desperate conditions in the occupied territories, we, the international community, have a duty to support and nurture the peace process by contributing generously to the economic reconstruction of the area to enable the Palestinians to taste the fruits of peace. We cherish the hope that the sudden improvement of prospects for peace in the Middle East will have a catalytic and propelling effect on the quest for a workable formula for the reunification of the island Republic of Cyprus. So long as the island remains divided, it will remain a source of conflict and instability in the area. So it is with Korea. Botswana hopes the divided peninsula will soon realize that it has become fashionable in this post-cold-war era for age-old problems suddenly to become amenable to solution. Change - peaceful change - through negotiation is the imperative of our time. In Central America, after many years of conflict, El Salvador is finally at peace. We hope that the proven capacity and efficacy of the United Nations in the field of election-monitoring and supervision will again be put to good use in El Salvador’s March 1994 election. In Haiti, we look forward to the imminent restoration of the presidency of Father Aristide. The success of the United Nations and the Organization of American States in shaping the agreement deserves our commendation. Botswana, a country whose respect for human rights is second to none, supports fully the creation of a post of commissioner of human rights. We have no human rights abuses to hide, nor do we fear criticism - constructive criticism, that is - should the international community find some aspect of our domestic policy or policies to be incompatible with the enjoyment of human rights by our citizens. This is not an invitation to interference in our internal affairs. We have always maintained that no nation has the right to violate the basic human rights of its citizens while using Article 2 (7) of the Charter as an argument against intervention by the international community. Recent reports have revealed that the United Nations is spending roughly three times as much on peace-keeping and peacemaking as on development assistance. Problems of development, as should be clear to everybody, constitute the underlying cause of world conflicts, and for the United Nations to be effective in the maintenance of international peace, more energy and resources have to be expended on development activities. Of particular concern are the downward trend in Africa’s commodity prices, the debt burden and the shrinking aid flow. In addition, many African countries, including my own, have had to cope with the serious effects of drought and famine. The civil strife which many African countries have had to cope with have also had a crippling effect on economic activity through damage to infrastructure. In order for an effective process of development to get under way in Africa the international community needs to establish a more open trading system giving access to, and adequate compensation for, commodities produced in Africa. For the past several years the market share for African goods has experienced a dramatic decline. Botswana appeals for a speedy conclusion of the current Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations, which we believe will strengthen Africa’s trading capacity and allow unrestricted access of our commodities to the world markets. The debt burden continues to be a major obstacle to African economic growth and development. Clearly, necessary measures have not been taken to attend to this compounding problem. The time has come for the donor Forty-eighth session - 11 October l993 17 community and the multilateral financial institutions to heed Africa’s call to reduce or totally cancel the debt stock. We live in exciting times, exciting in both positive and negative ways. We have been fortunate to wake up from the long nightmare of the cold war and bear witness to the birth of a new world, however imperfect. The birth of any new epoch has never been easy or free of pain. The membership of the Organization has multiplied with the rapid emergence of new nations, whose aspirations for self-determination had for so long been frustrated. The import of this most welcome development is, of course, not simply that we are close to universality but, also, that the problems facing the Organization have multiplied. Thankfully, our rejuvenated United Nations seems to have borne this increased load of responsibilities with a great deal of enthusiasm. Botswana renews its faith in this rejuvenated United Nations and in its time-tested Charter. I extend congratulations to His Excellency Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana on his election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly. May I also thank His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria for his contribution to the success of the previous session. In addition, I should like to stress the deep appreciation of the Polish Government for the work and accomplishments of the Secretary-General of the United Nations over the past year. Let me first speak about some of the timely goals and tasks of our Organization. I should like to start by discussing the role of the United Nations in organizing peace after the cold war. In the post-cold-war era, the United Nations is facing growing expectations and responsibilities. That trend will continue over the coming years. In an increasingly interdependent world the United Nations, despite its shortcomings and limitations, offers the best avenue for addressing those global problems that are still unresolved and for meeting new challenges as well. The Organization faces the task of creating a better, more democratic and just world. In fact, we badly need a vision of such a world. More often than not, we have to ask ourselves these questions: Are we rising to the occasion? How should we resolve the present crisis of leadership, both within individual States and on the international level? The United Nations provides an appropriate platform for shaping the vision I am talking about. To begin with, it should be based on the assessment of geopolitical and geoeconomic conditions, in particular on the assumption that the world has become pluralistic, whatever the size and weight of States in international affairs. It should also reflect an increased awareness of the need for a multilateral approach to solving problems. Four years have elapsed since the end of the cold war. We must not merely adjust to the new situation, but mould it, in order to arrive at a comprehensive solution. The present crisis has many facets. Today, its primary source is unresolved economic and social issues, as well as such political problems as territorial disputes and ethnic tensions. But we have to remember that the process of finding answers to these issues will unavoidably lead in the future Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 37 to a new alignment of power among States and, as a result, we shall then face the prospect of recourse to force. That question has been partly addressed by the Secretary-General in his 'Agenda for Peace.' The matter has very broad ramifications, and we still have not elaborated a grand strategy of democratic transformation. I think that the United Nations should start exploring, in a more systemic manner, its role in the world as it is now and as it will be beyond the year 2000. One of the preparatory steps might be the preparation of a report on the United Nations as a leader of global change and the promoter of a new world order after the cold war. Such an assignment could be entrusted to most-knowledgeable individuals, research institutes, transnational corporations and others. The report would serve as a basis for spelling out the future responsibilities of the United Nations and the Member States. We need a thorough re-examination of the priorities of the United Nations and, consequently, of the whole United Nations system. The main purpose of reform would be to adapt the United Nations to the requirements of peace after the cold war. Reform should take into account ongoing changes in Member States. This applies, in particular, to countries in transition, not only in Central and Eastern Europe but also in various parts of other continents. Let me take this opportunity to add that Poland is firmly and irreversibly committed to the political and economic transformation it started in 1989, and that its foreign policy has stable priorities. The fate of the countries in the process of transformation is not their problem alone. Their success or failure is unavoidably going to exert a strong impact on other States. The international community should not fail to back up the transformation process and to assist the new democracies in their continuing efforts to achieve reform, economic recovery, social progress and full participation in international exchanges. Such an approach would assist them in their swifter integration into the world economic system. The military factor of security retains its significance, although it differs from that of the cold-war era. The United Nations has developed a disarmament agenda. The signing of the chemical weapons Convention by almost 150 States shows how the new political climate facilitates long-awaited agreements and brings us closer to a world free of weapons of mass destruction. We hope that there will be similar positive developments in nuclear disarmament. The initiation of negotiations on a comprehensive ban on nuclear testing constitutes a big step in that direction. The United Nations should also deal with the threat posed by the possible spread of nuclear-weapon capabilities and the proliferation of other weapons of mass destruction. Poland attaches great importance to thorough and constructive preparations for the 1995 Review Conference of the Parties to the Non-Proliferation Treaty. I should now like to turn to the subject of human rights. There are a number of reasons why, after the Vienna Conference, the Organization should devote much of its attention to human rights. In doing so, I believe, it should reflect on these words used by Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali in addressing the high-level segment of the Economic and Social Council: 'The United Nations is, by its very essence, universal, global and inclusive. It is made up of sovereign States, yet crucially concerned with the well-being of individuals. Its concern with individuals, with their societies and with world society is not, as some would claim, inherently contradictory.' There are differences of opinion on the scope of human rights, on State responsibilities in regard to their observance and on the role of the international community in monitoring them. The United Nations organs must expand their negotiating and mediatory capacities and show much skill in overcoming these divergences. The essential criteria are morality, the inherent dignity of the human person and the rule of law. Human rights must express the common values of the international community. Their implementation is becoming one of the preconditions of worldwide stability and security. Fundamental human rights are universal; their substance is absolute and unrelated to circumstances. But saying this does not mean that we are closing our eyes to the existence of many different cultures and traditions in the historical development of the various regions of the world. This should be duly taken into account; however, it cannot justify any violations of human rights or non-execution of the relevant instruments. There is no room for treating criticism of such unlawful policies and lawful attempts to redress them as an infringement of the sovereignty of States. In promoting, developing and effectively defending human rights, the United Nations should make these activities part of its cooperation with States. International peace and security, sustainable development and human rights are the three closely related areas on which the United Nations should concentrate. 'An Agenda for Peace', Agenda 21 and the forthcoming agenda 38 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session for development should, in my view, be complemented by an agenda for human rights. With the results of the Vienna Conference kept in mind, the Agenda for Human Rights would constitute a plan of action for setting standards and implementing rights and preventing violations. Individuals need better and easier access to international protection of their rights and freedoms. The Organization should revise the grievance procedures and make them more universal. While assuming that the Second and Third Committees will merge into one Economic and Social Committee, Poland would suggest the establishment of a Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs Committee as one of the main Committees of the General Assembly. We recommend expanding the responsibilities, competence and rank of the Commission on Human Rights. We also support, as a matter of urgency, the proposal to create an office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. Further, we should explore means of promoting human rights on a regional level. A small bureau, which might be located in Warsaw, could be entrusted with monitoring human rights observance in Eastern Europe. This is a sensitive region. Such a bureau would be part of the Geneva office. I have suggested Warsaw because bodies of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Council of Europe already operate there, a fact that could facilitate cooperation between the United Nations and the European institutions in that field. The region provides much insight into how democracy and human rights are being implemented in States that are undergoing democratic transformation. One aspect of human rights has become very critical of late. I am referring to the increasing violations of humanitarian law in armed conflicts, whether international or domestic. As the President of the International Committee of the Red Cross emphasized during the recent International Conference on the Protection of Victims of War, held in Geneva, the practice has undergone a change for the worse. With even greater frequency, civilian populations are becoming the hostages and primary targets of fighting warlords. Each and every day the mass media bring us scenes of the atrocities of war. We in the United Nations must not be indifferent to these facts. Poland joins the call for urgent action to revive the observance of humanitarian law and to uphold the authority of the Geneva Conventions as well as their additional Protocols. The Polish Government strongly endorses the Declaration adopted by the Conference on the protection of war victims. In our view, the international community should pay particular attention to the observance of human rights and humanitarian standards in internal strife. War crimes should not go unpunished. The third task to which I wish to draw the attention of the General Assembly is development. The growing gap between rich and poor nations is a significant source of tensions and conflicts. Even Europe has not been spared, threatened as it is by the emergence of a new 'curtain', this one economic. I am confident that the agenda for development under preparation will comprehensively deal with the various aspects of this potential danger. We need a new development paradigm that is people-oriented: human rights have their economic dimension. Economic and social difficulties have a decisive impact on international security and global stability, and often lead to human rights violations. The main thing is to create a spirit of partnership and solidarity. We expect the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen in 1995, to specify the necessary tasks in social development and thereby reinforce sustainable economic development. I shall now discuss some procedures and methods which are particularly topical in view of the goals and tasks I have enumerated. I will speak first of the settlement and management of disputes. The new world situation calls for renewed and growing attention to international law, its implementation and application. Poland welcomes the enlargement, limited though it still is, of the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice. It would also be highly desirable if further withdrawals of reservations to the jurisdictional clauses of treaties followed. Poland supports the Secretary-General’s call upon all Member States to accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court before the end of the United Nations Decade of International Law in the year 2000. By means of its advisory jurisdiction, the Court might deal with such questions as the legal components of political decisions, the review of administrative action or the relationship between some of the main organs of the United Nations. The peaceful settlement of disputes requires a new approach. Traditional means, as listed in Article 33 of the Charter might, depending on the merits of each case, be combined with peace-keeping, peace-building or even enforcement measures. We must distinguish between various phases or component parts of the same conflict where each phase will require a different approach or a different procedure. And let us not forget that there are a growing number of conflicts which cannot simply be 'settled', at any rate in the foreseeable future. They should, Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 39 rather, be 'managed'. All this opens up new vistas for the skilful use of various United Nations mechanisms. Now I wish to say a few words about peace-keeping. It is a subject that is high on the United Nations agenda. The success and therefore the image of the United Nations are at stake here. The 'Agenda for Peace' has set out a conceptual framework. Preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping, peacemaking and, in particular, enforcement require sound guidelines, procedures and detailed planning in operational terms. Though a great deal of work has already been accomplished, much more remains to be done. The problems with the clarity of the mandate of the peace-keeping operations, their time frame, management and frugality also require the special attention of the United Nations. Bearing in mind the alarming number of casualties among both military and civilian peace-keepers, Poland fully supports the idea of the expeditious elaboration of a universally binding legal instrument, possibly in the form of a convention on the safety and security of the personnel of peace-keeping operations. The United Nations should not undertake new operations without clearly identified objectives. What is involved is trust in the Organization and its prospective contribution to the security of all of us. Regional conflicts figure prominently on the United Nations agenda. In specific cases regional institutions could be helpful, as not all regions have such ready mechanisms for dealing with conflict situations. However, they could strive to establish them. The Security Council, also, could play a role in appropriate instances. The importance of the regional effort is particularly relevant to Africa, which is facing many specific difficulties and problems. We should devote more attention to that continent. Poland supports the initiatives and programmes that aim at the peaceful settlement of conflicts and at the creation or strengthening of democratic institutions in Africa. In view of the fundamental constitutional reforms now under way in the Republic of South Africa, Poland favours the lifting of sanctions and other restrictions imposed on that country. Recent developments in the Middle East have shown a genuine will to arrive at a compromise and achieve a peaceful settlement. Poland shares the view that it would be appropriate for the General Assembly to endorse the peace process and call for regional cooperation in the Middle East. At the same time, the Assembly should refrain from repeating such resolutions as could harm this delicate process. We believe that the present scale of the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina could have been avoided had the international community, especially Europe, reacted when there was still time. Obviously, I am aware of the fact that in a conflict whose components are both internal and international, the influence of non-parties is rather limited, and the solution must finally come from within. Poland rejects the policy of appeasement and imposed territorial settlements. Finally, there is the issue of sanctions. I should like to draw your attention to the implementation of Article 50 of the Charter. I think that Member States which suffer heavy economic losses as a result of applying sanctions should be entitled to something more than mere consultations and a general - hence ineffective - appeal to the international community to take account of their burden. As sanctions have now become more frequent, the resulting problem of economic losses by third countries cannot be ignored, as, in fact, it now is. A satisfactory mechanism should be worked out as a matter of urgency to resolve this issue. In conclusion, the United Nations, like the world around it, is experiencing a dynamic period of transition influenced by fundamental reassessments and re-evaluations of the potential for peace, development and cooperation among nations. The Organization is gearing itself to contribute its share towards forging a better future for the world and improving the human condition. It has every opportunity to establish a comprehensive agenda within the trinity of peace and security, sustainable human development, and democracy and human rights. It can thereby fulfil the Charter promise 'to be a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the attainment of these common ends'. Mr. President, allow me at the outset to extend to you the warmest congratulations of the Greek Government on your election to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Your distinguished personal qualities and diplomatic skills augur well for the progress of work of the current session. I should be remiss if I did not express the deep appreciation of the Greek Government to the Secretary-General of the United Nations , 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the most distinguished way in which he has been discharging his high duties. His dynamism, energy, perseverance, political will and leadership, together with a determined vision of the new world structure, constitute invaluable and solid foundations for a more efficient and creative United Nations response to the challenges of the close of the twentieth century. He has our full support. Let me also join previous speakers in welcoming, from this rostrum, the new Members that have been admitted to the United Nations this year. We were deeply shocked by the tragic news of the devastating earthquake in India, which has resulted in the loss of tens of thousands of lives. I express, on behalf of the Greek Government and of the Greek people, our sincere sympathy for the families of victims and for the friendly people of India. Earlier this week, the Foreign Minister of Belgium, in his capacity as President of the Council of the European Community, delivered a statement on behalf of the European Community and its 12 member States. My Government fully subscribes to its content. An unprecedented and historic event has enhanced hopes for the peoples living in the Middle East. Israelis and Palestinians have made a courageous step, in Washington, towards peace. Greece, together with its European Community partners, offers its full support for keeping the present momentum so that the parties involved may soon reach comprehensive and lasting agreements. We have always taken the stand that peace in the Middle East could be achieved through direct dialogue between all the parties. The Prime Minister of Greece, Mr. Mitsotakis, addressing the General Assembly in 1981 in his capacity as Foreign Minister stressed, inter alia, that: 'The prolongation of the Arab-Israeli conflict and the failure of all unilateral attempts to resolve it demonstrate that only dialogue among the parties, including the Palestine Liberation Organization, can lead to a just and lasting solution.' (A/36/PV.16, p. 17) We are extremely satisfied that these historic, direct talks have paved the way to peace. In today’s global political landscape, the international community must address many challenges that are neither familiar nor simple. Troubling developments in areas with varying political and economic conditions are affecting millions of people who are caught in a circle of violence and suffering. Millions face starvation. We must take heart, however, from the determination of peoples in all parts of the world to sustain freedom and human rights, and to choose their futures even in the face of declining output, rising unemployment and inflation. In the quest for a better world, for a better future, man is striving to improve his social, economic and political institutions. The future of mankind is inextricably linked to the way in which we have lived and acted during the twentieth century and, in particular, during the last four decades. During this period the international community had rested its hopes on the United Nations system in order to address the challenges of modern society. Our Organization has stood the test of time. It has offered us a valuable service in the fields of peace and security. It has also helped us, to a great extent, in our common endeavours towards eliminating injustice, economic imbalances and social disparities, and in safeguarding the environment. We firmly believe that all Members of the United Nations, together, have a moral obligation to act in order to ensure a better future for mankind. Previous speakers have duly stressed the need to react jointly to the challenges. In this respect, allow me to announce that the Government of Greece, eager to contribute towards this end, has the honour to propose the convening in Greece, in January of the year 2000, of an international United Nations summit aimed at adopting a global agenda for the twenty- first century. The general topic of this summit conference could be 'Partners for a Better World: on the Threshold of the Twenty-first Century'. An ad hoc preparatory committee or an open-ended working group of the whole could be established by this body to cope with the substance and the organizational aspects of the summit. Greece expresses its willingness and readiness to work bilaterally and collectively towards the realization of this United Nations summit conference. I might add that, after all, Greece was the cradle of the democracy that humanity as a whole now enjoys. It is the right place to hold the summit proposed by the Greek Government. We are living through a period of radical changes, especially in Europe. Former adversaries are now cooperating on the basis of common values and principles. Historical agreements have been reached in arms control and arms reduction, both regionally and globally. These changes have also brought new risks and uncertainties: the proliferation of new States; the Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 17 reappearance of claims of numerous national minorities suppressed under communism, and with them the danger of disputed borders; and, on top of these, the economic collapse and heavy transition costs in the former communist countries, as well as the re-emergence of nationalism, national antagonisms, religious fanaticism and populist tendencies. All of these issues have set the stage for a new approach to the question of security and stability in Europe, which has emerged as the major issue of political importance in the old continent. Let me also emphasize that security in Europe is linked to the economic development and maturity of the democratic process and institutions in Eastern Europe, the Balkan peninsula and the Maghreb. Uncontrolled and unlimited migration resulting from political turmoil and economic hardship in these countries could cause social and economic problems affecting even the more prosperous countries in Western Europe. The significance of the United Nations in maintaining peace has grown dramatically. It is enough to compare the 13 peace-keeping operations undertaken during the first 42 years of its existence with the same number of operations established between 1991 and 1992. Only last week the Security Council decided to establish two new peace-keeping operations in Haiti and in Liberia. The prestige, credibility and power of the United Nations have been enhanced by the positive outcome of the peace-keeping operations. However, the United Nations system was not ready to cope with such an extended challenge, and there seems to be a consensus that United Nations methods and capabilities need to be adjusted and improved. More effective ways to prevent and contain conflicts have been considered by the United Nations, world leaders and respected think-tanks. The Secretary-General’s 'An Agenda for Peace' has stimulated the ongoing discussions and has already resulted in the adoption of a series of measures. Greece strongly supports the United Nations peace-keeping operations, as well as peace-building and peacemaking activities. Our presence in Somalia, Iraq, Kuwait and Western Sahara indicates our increasing involvement in peace-keeping. In this context, I should also mention our contribution to the United Nations polling officers unit in Cambodia and in other parts of the world. Cyprus, a member of the United Nations, still remains occupied and divided. Thirty thousand Turkish troops occupy 38 per cent of the Republic. What is more, thousands of settlers from the mainland have upset the demographic balance of the population. We note with deep concern a complete lack of progress towards a solution of the Cyprus problem during this year. In spite of the efforts of the Secretary-General and his representatives, talks in New York and in Cyprus came to a standstill because of the unwillingness of the Turkish Cypriot leadership to engage in meaningful negotiations either on the overall agreement or on confidence-building measures. We join the Secretary-General’s call to Turkey to fully assume its responsibilities and exercise its decisive influence with the Turkish-Cypriot leaders in order to achieve progress. The recent breakthrough in the Middle East has proved that there are no intractable problems, if there is a political will. This genuine will is required from Ankara in order to re-establish the sovereignty, territorial integrity and unity of Cyprus, while guaranteeing and protecting the rights of all its citizens. Here, I would remind the Assembly that the question of the missing persons has not been resolved. Greece will maintain its constructive attitude in the hope that it will be reciprocated. My Government this year increased its contribution to the United Nations Peace-keeping Force in Cyprus to $6.5 million, as evidence of our strong commitment to achieving a political settlement while safeguarding peace in Cyprus. We follow with particular attention the tireless efforts of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe to achieve decisive reforms to consolidate the democratic institutions and establish an open market economy. We sympathize with their calls for assistance. We participate in all initiatives to promote a smooth integration of the newly established States into international institutions. The consolidation of democratic institutions and processes in Russia is of the utmost importance for Europe and for my country in particular. An eloquent example of the upheaval brought about by the dramatic changes in Europe is the situation in the former Yugoslavia. Here, and especially in Bosnia, the upheaval has turned into a tragedy of unprecedented proportions. No matter how much we contribute to prevent and ease the suffering of the people, there is no remedy unless and until a political solution has been agreed upon by all parties. Their leaders should understand that continued fighting increases hatred and decreases the chances of a compromise, and should seize any acceptable opportunity for peace for the sake of their people. The Co-Chairmen of the International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia have exercised all their ingenuity to convince those leaders of these simple truths. They have consistently tried to guide negotiations towards the principles of the London Conference. Cyrus Vance, Thorvald Stoltenberg and 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Lord Owen deserve our gratitude for their tremendous efforts. Greece, along with its European Community partners, plays a constructive role in the search for a negotiated overall settlement. We were close to an agreement last May after the Athens meeting, for which the Greek Government and particularly the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, worked hard. Let us hope that the present chance will not be missed. When an agreement is reached in Bosnia, we must take an active part in the huge task of the reconstruction of the former Yugoslavia. We propose to start planning for this task right now. The main responsibility lies with the European Community. Greece expresses its readiness to host an international meeting for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the former Yugoslavia, with the participation of donors, as well as of neighbouring countries. Substantial economic and financial assistance is the prerequisite for achieving social harmony and consolidating democracy. Let us hope that peace will be achieved sooner rather than later. Serious consideration should be given now to planning for the day after peace is achieved. May I remind the Assembly that the agreement between the Israelis and the Palestinians came very suddenly. Only now is the international community thinking of ways to assist the region to recover and achieve economic reconstruction and rehabilitation. Let us not be late in the case of the former Yugoslavia. If we act right now, we act on time. The day after should be taken into serious consideration by all concerned, and especially by the European Community and the neighbouring States. My Government deeply appreciates the efforts of the Co-Chairmen of the Steering Committee of the International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia in accordance with Security Council resolution 817 (1993). We thank Mr. Vance for agreeing to continue these efforts in accordance with Security Council resolution 845 (1993). The resolution of this problem will enhance stability in the Balkan region. Greece’s position is clear: we are striving to eradicate a potential point of friction in the Balkans, friction which may lead to tension with unpredictable and perhaps grave consequences. On this occasion I reiterate our earnest desire to strengthen, as far as possible, our relations with all our neighbours. We have pursued this policy consistently. To this purpose, we will continue our efforts to enable our northern neighbours to accomplish the difficult task of reconstructing their economies. The Balkan economies are inextricably interdependent; we need the cooperation of our northern neighbours in order to link further our economies with those of the Central, Northern and Western European States. So our neighbours need the cooperation of Greece in order to integrate their economies with the European Community as well as to have access to the trade routes of the Mediterranean and the Middle East. Greece is fully aware of the need to assist, and has already enormously assisted, Albania in overcoming its considerable economic difficulties and consolidating its democratic institutions. At the same time, we again urge the Albanian Government to grant in practice the fundamental minority rights established within the process of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, particularly in the fields of education and religion. Religious freedom and the right to education should not be denied to the Greek minority nor to any minority anywhere in the globe. Albania cannot deny to the minorities within its borders what it itself asks for its minorities abroad. The elimination of weapons of mass destruction, including in particular nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, is a goal towards which, despite progress achieved, we must persevere. The signing of the chemical-weapons Convention on 12 January 1993 was an important step. We look forward to the Conference of 1995 for an unconditional and indefinite renewal of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. We also note with satisfaction the progress made towards the negotiation of a comprehensive test-ban treaty. The World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna last June, has led to the emergence of common views and strategies involving large sectors of our societies and to prospects for better cooperation between the institutions and organizations active in this area. We hope that the vicious circle of violence in South Africa will end soon, with the cooperation of all South African leaders, and that a new political system will be born. Greece, along with its European Community partners, intends to play a constructive role in assisting that country in its transition to majority rule. In Somalia, the United Nations embarked upon the first peace enforcement operation to secure a safe environment for humanitarian operations, disarm militia and pursue the difficult task of political recovery. Pacification has been accomplished to a large extent Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 19 though serious problems remain. As a troop contributor to the United Nations Operation in Somalia, Greece firmly believes that this operation should not be allowed to fail. Greece and its European Community partners maintain a fruitful dialogue in both political and economic matters with the countries of Latin America. This dialogue will be continued with great interest at the San Jose and Rio ministerial meetings, which will take place next year under the Greek presidency of the European Community and in Greece. In many of the poorest developing countries, standards of living continue to decline, while in other developing countries the results of economic performance are, to say the least, mixed. Thus, some economies in Asia are vibrant. Latin America, with the debt crisis behind it, has pursued successful structural adjustment programmes. On the other hand, in half of the developing world the picture remains bleak. It is particularly so in Africa. The needs are compelling. We share the view that growth should be sustainable in that it creates more employment, less poverty and greater equality of opportunity, and also in that it promotes human freedom and the preservation of the environment. Successful national policies are necessary to bring about greater participation by the people in economic, social and political life. In concluding my statement, I appeal to every Member, not only in my capacity as Foreign Minister of Greece, but also as a man who wants to see his grandchildren live in a different, better world - a world of tolerance, peace and solidarity. Let us join our efforts and share our experience for a better tomorrow. Let us be tolerant of each other in order to ensure a better life for our children and for their children. Let us ensure that solidarity and partnership prevail over sterile antagonism, micronationalism and totalitarian ideologies and regimes. Let us work together to eliminate war, famine, genocide, 'ethnic cleansing', holocaust, xenophobia, racism and aggression. Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly and to express our conviction that your experience and diplomatic skills will make a valuable contribution to the work of this august body. My delegation will spare no effort to support you in the fulfilment of your tasks. I should also like to avail myself of this opportunity to thank your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the way he conducted the work of the General Assembly during a difficult period. Over the last eight months, this Organization has been able to welcome six new Member States: Slovakia, the Czech Republic, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Monaco, Eritrea and Andorra, thus enhancing the universality of the United Nations. Since the last session of the General Assembly we have been witness to historic gains in regional disputes. The signing of the peace agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization is a unique breakthrough and will, it is hoped, lead to a just and lasting peace for the region. When the President of the African National Congress, Mr. Nelson Mandela, spoke in this Hall on 24 September, he outlined the historic advances made towards democracy in South Africa. We are very hopeful that a new South Africa will play a vital role in the development of the African continent. My country was admitted to the United Nations on 18 September 1990 and has tried over the last three years to maintain as active a presence and participation as possible. While Liechtenstein was the 160th Member in 1990, the Organization today has 184 members. This considerable increase in the Organization’s membership makes it clear that the ongoing discussion of equitable representation on and expansion of the Security Council’s membership is timely and necessary. In our view, the priorities in reforming the Security Council are cohesion and effectiveness. It is of great importance, however, that the discussion of reforms also include the question of the Security Council’s work, since broad support for its actions is an indispensable condition of its legitimacy, which can only be guaranteed by enhanced transparency and cooperation with other Member States. Article 23 of the Charter establishes that the contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security is the first criterion for membership in the Council; it is obvious that the second criterion - equitable geographical distribution - has so far not been given due attention. In view of the obvious importance of the Security Council’s composition, we favour taking the necessary time to make adjustments beneficial to the credibility of the Organization as a whole. The new effectiveness of the Security Council is manifested, among other ways, by the recent considerable increase of peace-keeping and peacemaking missions. These operations are closely observed by the public and are often taken as a yardstick for the activities of the United Nations as a whole. While we think it important to give more attention to other fields, such as that of social development, we are aware of the impact that the failure or success of peace-keeping activities can have on the credibility of the Organization. In our view, the United Nations should not engage in an ever-increasing number of peace-keeping Forty-eighth session - 5 October l993 9 missions all over the world. A more important role should be given to preventive diplomacy, which can be carried out by regional organizations or arrangements such as the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). The participating States consider the CSCE a regional arrangement in the sense of Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter, and as such it provides an important link between European and global security. Liechtenstein, as a participating State, believes that enhancement of the cooperation with the CSCE is crucial; my country favours the idea of granting observer status to that organization and has supported the request for the inclusion of an additional item to this effect in the agenda of the forty-eighth session. Preventive diplomacy cannot, however, replace peace- keeping, and the United Nations must remain as active in that field as is necessary. It must be pointed out that the existing infrastructure in New York is not sufficient to cope with the wide range of tasks, and urgently needs to be improved. Deplorable events in the recent past have made it clear that there is not sufficient protection of civil and military personnel involved in peace-keeping missions. We therefore wholeheartedly welcome the inclusion of a new agenda item proposed by the delegation of New Zealand regarding the question of responsibility for attacks on United Nations and associated personnel and measures to ensure that those responsible for such attacks are brought to justice. With the growing involvement of the United Nations in complex conflicts, the Organization’s role has been transformed into a more active and comprehensive one. As a result, relief workers expose their lives to great risk in their efforts to alleviate human suffering. My delegation believes that it simply cannot be tolerated that relief workers, who themselves want to save lives, should become targets. The United Nations should make it very clear that these acts of violence will not go unpunished. The emblems of the United Nations, the Red Cross and the Red Crescent must be respected. Humanitarian assistance today faces the challenge of many complex emergency situations. These challenges must be met on the basis of the principles of neutrality, impartiality and humanity; humanitarian aid must not be politicized. When we are called upon to give proof of our solidarity, we must provide the necessary financial means. We are, however, also called upon to address the root causes of many disasters, such as poverty, population increase and civil and ethnic strife. Imbalances feed misery; they not only are unfair but are dangerous. Forty-five years after the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a great deal remains to be done in this field, to which we attach particular importance. The World Conference on Human Rights in June 1993 was a very important event, and we all know how difficult it was to adopt the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action. This text can constitute a milestone in the history of the United Nations only if it is followed by determined action by the General Assembly in the spirit of the Vienna Declaration. In our view, it is of the utmost importance that the the Centre for Human Rights be given the resources necessary to enable it to carry out its tasks even more efficiently. In addition, the creation of the post of high commissioner for human rights is a laudable initiative, and the General Assembly should provide him or her with a strong mandate within the already existing structures. It is a well-known fact that the financial situation of the United Nations is disastrous. In his speech of 26 August, the Secretary-General accordingly outlined initial steps to cope with this crisis. The measures taken by the Secretary- General seem to be unavoidable, and we hope they will not have a negative impact on the work of the General Assembly. In our view, urgent action by the General Assembly is needed to prevent further deterioration, which could have serious consequences. Punctual and full payment of the assessed contributions must be made by all States and arrears must be paid in full and promptly. Proposals aimed at ensuring proper utilization of resources and establishing adequate accountability within the United Nations should be discussed thoroughly and expeditiously. Finally, an overall reform of the financial sector seems to be necessary. All suggestions which might contribute to this aim, especially those contained in the so-called Volcker-Ogata report, should be studied with due attention. Much has been said about the changes that have taken place since the ending of the cold war. Unfortunately we cannot say that all these changes have been positive. To the infinite regret and dismay of the whole international community, we have continued to witness the outbreak of a great number of ethnic and national conflicts, accompanied by the untold suffering of innocent people. There must be a better way for the world to manage its affairs. While tensions within and between communities may be an inevitable part of the human condition, it is, in our view, of the utmost importance that ways be found to defuse them peacefully and without bloodshed. In this context, I should like to refer briefly again to an idea which might take us a step in the right direction and which I introduced when I had the great honour to address 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session the General Assembly for the first time at its forty-sixth session, very soon after Liechtenstein became a Member of the United Nations. On that occasion, I ventured to suggest that a basis for some solutions could be found within the principle of self-determination. The value of this great principle has been fully demonstrated in the traditional context of decolonization. But it need not be limited to that context. Applied also to communities within States, and allowing for them to have different levels of autonomy according to the particular circumstances of different communities, it could perhaps defuse many of the tensions which are such a potent source of conflict. Such principles, placed within a suitable framework, would give an effective and practical dimension to the principle of self-determination which it has sometimes seemed to lack. Eventually such provisions could perhaps come to be elaborated in a convention to be of general application. Since first putting those thoughts before this Assembly, we in Liechtenstein have been encouraged by the degree of interest which has been shown in them. Our ideas are flexible, although our objective - which is to find practical and effective ways of avoiding, or at least reducing, tensions between communities - remains firm. We have refined our initial thoughts on the subject in the light of comments made by others, and we developed our ideas further at the last session of the General Assembly, both during debates in the Third Committee and when the Head of Government addressed the Assembly in the course of the general debate. On that occasion, the Head of Government announced that the Government of Liechtenstein would be inviting each Government represented in the Assembly, including Observers, to nominate an independent expert to attend an informal meeting of experts in Liechtenstein to discuss these matters further. That meeting took place from 16 to 18 March this year, attended by participants nominated by 46 States and international and non-governmental organizations. I attended it myself throughout, and can say personally how valuable we found the contributions participants made to the development of our thinking. Perhaps I might be allowed to take this opportunity to thank them all for their participation in what we see as an important and valuable project. Over the past two years we have, in these various ways, carried forward our belief that, in the ideas first put forward to Assembly in 1991, the international community may find some way forward in its search for ways of avoiding the kind of internal conflicts which cause ever-increasing human suffering and which are increasingly dangerous for the peace and safety of our world. To make further progress we decided this year to seek to inscribe an item on the Assembly’s agenda which would enable our ideas to be fully discussed by the full membership of the United Nations. We are grateful that our proposal was accepted and now appears on the agenda for this session as item 108 (b), entitled 'Right of peoples to self-determination: Effective realization of the right of self-determination through autonomy'. We look forward to the debate which will follow, and I hope to be able to participate myself in at least part of it. We hope that in the light of what may be said in the debate, the Assembly will agree that there is, in the ideas which we have put forward, something valuable which merits further consideration and elaboration. We do not underestimate the difficulties ahead. We are aware of the sensitivities of this whole subject, especially in these times. Great though those difficulties and sensitivities may be for some States, we are convinced that the needs of the international community are even more pressing. The dangers, horrors and suffering to which tensions between communities within States can give rise, and of which we sadly have daily reminders, make it essential for the international community to make every effort to open up new thinking in this field in order to find practical and effective means for further promoting the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations. We consider it a great privilege to have an Organization such as the United Nations, founded upon a Charter which encompasses the highest ideals of humankind. I wish to take this opportunity to reaffirm my country’s commitment to the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. It has been an extraordinary year since the General Assembly met last year. We have seen breakthroughs in two areas - South Africa and the Middle East - which have bedevilled the international community for decades. Bringing both to a successful conclusion will be hard, but we have good reasons for optimism. Canada applauds the courage and foresight of the parties involved, and pledges that it will continue to do its part in promoting further advances. But, at the same time, we have also seen tragedies - in Somalia, Bosnia, Angola and elsewhere - which have, thus far, defied our best efforts to bring peace. It is against this background, of hope renewed and hopes dashed, that I wish to speak about the United Nations central vocation: the defence and promotion of peace and security and the conditions in which they can thrive. It is a Canadian vocation as well. Since United Nations peace-keeping was invented in 1956 by Lester Pearson, we have been there; sweating it out in the field, taking casualties, doing the tough work for peace, in partnership with a growing number of other Member States. Since 1956, Canada has fielded almost 100,000 men and women in United Nations operations in every corner of the world. That contribution has been a costly one for us, not least in lives lost. None the less, it is a contribution which has been a symbol of pride to most Canadians, a tangible expression of our national quest for a better world. Canadians speak from experience born of commitment. We see the changes which must be made and the principles which must remain immutable. The world is hungry for multilateral solutions to conflict and war. This is our time, the United Nations moment. We are living through decisive political change. Cold war certainties have given way, but in their place we have unpredictability and instability - a political unease about our future, uncertainty about where collective endeavours can take us. Most countries feel more secure militarily, but our citizens, in their personal lives, often feel less secure about their well-being, for themselves and for generations to come. But this broader perspective must not obscure the very real military dangers which remain: excessive accumulations of conventional arms; the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction - chemical, biological and nuclear; and conflict and human misery created by the breakdown of civil and political society within States and across fragile and often new borders. The world has learned some hard lessons in recent years. First, we have learned that our security is interdependent. Within each specific area of concern - whether military, economic, environment or health - no nation can stand alone. We are all affected, positively and negatively, by developments beyond our borders. And our own actions, within our own countries, inevitably resonate throughout the wider community of nations. 6 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Secondly, we have learned that our security is indivisible. We cannot escape the connections linking issues; between, for example, economic growth, environmental safety and population flows. Deterioration in any one area can destabilize the whole. We must think about security more broadly, in terms which address fundamental sources of insecurity: questions of economic development and prosperity; environmental integrity; freedom from crime and physical threat; health; membership in communities which reflect our values, traditions and aspirations. Thirdly, we have learned that genuine security is not about control and repression. It is about striking the right balance of interests, within countries and across borders. Fourthly, we have learned that we have to find more cooperative ways of addressing security issues, ways which maximize the relative strengths of many existing institutions. We foresee a network of collaborative arrangements - local, regional and global - forming the building-blocks of a new system of collective security, all hinged on the focal point of the United Nations. The Charter of the United Nations itself provides useful guidance, describing possible relationships between the United Nations and regional bodies in the pacific settlement of local disputes. Cooperation between the United Nations, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European Community in Europe; between the United Nations, the Commonwealth and the Organization of African Unity in Africa; and between the United Nations and the Organization of American States in Central America and Haiti has moved us considerably along the path anticipated by the drafters of the Charter. Moreover, regional organizations are often the best equipped to deal with local sources of instability and potential conflict, such as water disputes, demographic shifts or human rights concerns. For decades, the cold war hemmed us in. That time is over. We have it within our grasp to fulfil the promise of our Charter, to build a global cooperative security system centred on the United Nations. For it is the United Nations alone which can provide a universal forum for elaborating new principles and negotiating new rules and standards. And it is the United Nations alone which, as a universal body, can bring the full weight of the international community to bear on specific critical issues. In the last five years alone, the involvement of the United Nations in various multilateral military efforts has grown exponentially. Five years ago there were seven such operations; today there are 16. Five years ago there were 9,000 military personnel deployed with the United Nations; today there are nearly 80,000, more than Canada has in all of its regular armed forces. And as we look around the world today, the prospect of even more operations has to be seen as inevitable. The transformation in United Nations operations has not been simply quantitative of late. The fact is that the United Nations is now engaged in a range of activities which goes well beyond the traditional concepts of peace-keeping we have been accustomed to in the past. Much of the Secretary-General’s ground-breaking 'An Agenda for Peace' has moved from prescription to reality, and rightly so. It is quite right to ask whether and under what conditions the United Nations should commit its resources to the resolution of international crises. It is equally right to ask whether the United Nations has the right tools to do what is asked of it. (spoke in French) The rapid expansion of United Nations operations in the past several years has been both unprecedented and instructive. In the process we have all learned certain lessons, some in a very wrenching fashion. We would all do well to take stock of our recent experience and determine how we can together improve our capacity to act more effectively. Having been an active participant in virtually every United Nations military operation, Canada has made its own diagnosis and come to its own conclusions as to some remedies that should be pursued. (spoke in English) To begin with, we must improve our collective capacity to judge, to determine accurately and dispassionately the nature of impending threats and the facts of specific cases. We must also improve our capacity to act, to respond firmly and effectively to events before they deteriorate into crises. There are steps we can take now to improve our collective capacity in the field of preventive diplomacy. Recent initiatives to strengthen our early-warning system should be implemented. To do that, the Secretary-General should be given the resources necessary for independent political analysis, analysis that he could draw on before armed conflict is unleashed and when non-military intervention can still be effective. Not only must warnings be timely; they must also have an impact on decisions. The Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 7 Secretary-General must make full use of the provisions of Article 99 of the Charter to bring to the attention of the Security Council situations which may threaten peace. This would itself provide a powerful stimulus to global attention and necessary preventive action. The United Nations ability to conduct preventive diplomacy through the good offices of the Secretary-General must be strengthened. The Secretary-General’s efforts to address dozens of conflicts and potential conflicts require tangible support. The preventive deployment of peace- keepers to forestall conflict, as we have recently done in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, can prove very useful and in the long run avoid a much larger commitment of scarce resources. Experience with the assignment of United Nations military forces around the world has, in our view, demonstrated a number of shortcomings. It is incumbent on us all to move quickly to respond to them by changing the way that business is conducted. First, major operations can no longer be run on an ad hoc basis. The management, planning and operational capacity of the United Nations has to be reinforced. A permanent strategic headquarters staff capable of controlling two or more large-scale, multidimensional operations has to be put in place. To be effective, this headquarters would need a comprehensive information processing and planning capacity. Secondly, the United Nations ability to bring matériel and personnel speedily to a theatre of operations and to ensure coordination between sources of equipment and personnel has to be strengthened. Too often in the past, the Secretary-General has had to delay United Nations-sanctioned operations for want of adequate personnel or matériel. The ability to deploy United Nations troops rapidly to emerging flashpoints has to be upgraded substantially. At a minimum, Member States should enter into formal commitments with the Secretary-General to provide troops on a stand-by basis and tied to readiness standards, as Canada has done in the past year. Thirdly, United Nations Members have to build and develop the large cadre of peace-keepers necessary for the United Nations missions of the future. Peace-keeping demands cultural sensitivity, the ability to mediate and a host of other skills. Training will be required, particularly of a corps of senior officers who will have to exercise leadership in complex, difficult and dangerous situations. Training holds the key to successfully integrating different national contingents into one operation. Fourthly, we need to ensure that field operations meet high performance standards. Work on the development of a common code of conduct and operating procedures for all personnel serving under the United Nations flag should be brought to an early conclusion. Fifthly, we must also come to grips with the increasingly serious dangers facing our peace-keepers. We and others are working to clarify and codify principles and measures for the protection of United Nations personnel, particularly those involved in peace-keeping operations. Canada will be proposing specific provisions for such a convention to be discussed during the coming General Assembly session. In the last several years, a range of innovative proposals has been put forward with a view to enhancing the capacity of the United Nations to mount effective multilateral military operations. Many of these suggestions have been the subject of extensive debate in Canada, as they have in many other countries. We have, in fact, been proponents of some of these suggestions. We fully recognize, of course, that ours is but one perspective. Actually realizing these necessitates a much broader level of support by United Nations Member States. Accordingly, in the best interests of future United Nations efforts, it is time that a panel of civilian and military experts with experience in United Nations operations be charged with assessing these and other proposals which could further enhance the operational capacity of the United Nations. Such a report should be finalized and submitted to the Secretary-General next summer. It should include clear recommendations on both the merits of the proposals and, as importantly, how they could be implemented and financed. The report would in turn would provide us with the basis for coming to collective decisions on whether or not to proceed with any of these. Only in this way can we more definitively determine not only the potential need but the requisite support for these proposals. The agenda for such a review would include: the establishment of a permanent United Nations staff college for the training of military officers; the creation of more training facilities for United Nations troops; the development of a network of United Nations material supply depots stockpiled with equipment for rapid dispatch to new United Nations operations; the question whether United Nations Member States would provide at nominal, if any, cost 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session equipment and matériel which would be made available to United Nations contingents not having such resources in their own military establishments; and the creation of a permanent rapid deployment force under United Nations command, based possibly on a new United Nations volunteer force. There may well be other issues that should be on that agenda. The key, however, is to have that assessment made. My own Government is committed to reviewing these and other related questions in the context of a reappraisal of our own military capacity, including our participation in United Nations operations. Security is more than simply a matter of being able to deploy adequate numbers of troops on a timely basis. Modern United Nations missions are drawing on expertise far beyond that of traditional military peace-keepers. There is a demand for civilian police, for election workers, for human rights monitors, for engineers, administrators and other specialists to rebuild infrastructure. It is not enough to stop hostilities; the United Nations is now expected to build the peace as well. We are moving from a tradition of interposing peace- keepers between hostile forces to new forms of engagement. Rebuilding societies to stand on their own will be a complex and lengthy process. Diplomatic peacemaking, military and civilian peace-keeping and peace-building pose new sorts of challenges. It has become obvious, in our view, that a more integrated and coordinated approach by the United Nations is now mandatory if we are to cope successfully with many of the crises which draw United Nations military forces. We have had a measure of success in this regard in Cambodia, but far less in other situations, such as Somalia. United Nations military operations cannot in and of themselves address or resolve the root causes of conflict. That is something that can be achieved only through a much more broadly based effort, be it political, economic or social. In effect, we need a capacity to rebuild, over time, countries or societies which have suffered structural collapse. An effective system of cooperative security, led by a reinvigorated United Nations, will cost money; but then, genuine security always carries a price which is worth paying. Resources are limited, and we must all share the burden. This means paying United Nations bills in full and on time. That is what Canada does, and we expect others to do the same. It is difficult to overstate the damage that non-payment and the build-up of arrears does to the United Nations system, and to our collective capacity for effective action. Burden-sharing means taking part in the activities of the United Nations, from contributing troops for peace-keeping missions to providing observers for election monitoring. Today, Canada is providing just under 4 per cent of all United Nations forces. Little less than one year ago, Canadian troops accounted for 10 per cent of all United Nations forces. Those are rather remarkable figures when we consider that Canada accounts for less than one half of 1 per cent of the world’s population, and that our military establishment represents less than 1 per cent of global military expenditures. This is not to suggest that we are seeking a diminished role, one more commensurate with our relative status in the world. It is, instead, to question whether others are doing their fair share. Burden-sharing also means sharing political responsibility for shaping and taking decisions, and for ensuring that decisions and commitments are fulfilled. That is why we welcome the Security Council’s increasing attention to drafting clear mandates, sharply defining objectives and setting deadlines. Clear and realistic mandates are necessary if the United Nations is to remain both credible and effective. In Canada as in a number of other countries, governments are facing difficult fiscal circumstances and publics that are demanding more effective, efficient and economical service from government. The need for rationalization of government, for streamlining, and for an end to overlap, duplication and waste is one that my own Government has addressed in the last several months. Our efforts in that respect will continue. We have a responsibility to our own taxpayers to ensure that the same standards and objectives are applied to the international institutions of which we are members. Institutions of the United Nations cannot remain immune to the challenges, financial as well as political, of the late twentieth century. They too must help shoulder the burden by becoming leaner, more efficient, better focused, more responsible and more responsive. They must adapt, just as Member States are doing, to new technologies, to continuing fiscal restraint, to the challenge to do better with less. The structures here are not sacrosanct. No position, expenditure or institution should be free of the scrutiny under which we in Canada, and others elsewhere, have placed our own State structures. We applaud the reforms initiated by the Secretary- General and we pledge our support for further action. We urge him to press on, and we urge all Member States to Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 9 support his efforts. Our security, the security of generations to come, is in the balance. We have a great deal to do. All of our efforts to reform the peacemaking and peace-keeping function of the United Nations will be in vain if we are not able to come to terms collectively with what must be regarded as the most dangerous current threat to international security: the ubiquitous spread of weapons of mass destruction. In too many areas of the world, the prospect of conflict involving nuclear weapons risks destabilizing already tense situations, and could lead to human disasters of unimaginable proportions. We must muster the collective resolve to put teeth into the Non-Proliferation Treaty, disciplining harshly those who violate its provisions and giving confidence to those who abide by its undertakings. We wholeheartedly welcome the priority attached to this issue by President Clinton, and the practical measures he proposed. Our own priorities are clear: further progress in nuclear arms reduction; indefinite extension and universal adherence to the Non-Proliferation Treaty; negotiation of a comprehensive test-ban treaty; early progress to bring the chemical weapons Convention into force; and strengthening of the United Nations Conventional Arms Register. These direct investments in peace and security must be accompanied by collective action on the root causes of insecurity. We must develop and consolidate democratic institutions and the rule of law. Modern history teaches us that democracies are the least likely States to wage war, the best guarantors of peace. The impartial rule of law domestically is the surest way of keeping democracies democratic; internationally, it is the best way to resolve disputes before they become crises. We must protect and promote human rights. Security begins at the level of the individual, and there can be neither peace nor security while people, singly or collectively, minorities or majorities, are unable to uphold their dignity and exercise their inherent rights. The General Assembly must build on the progress achieved at the Vienna Conference earlier this year and agree to establish by the end of this year the post of United Nations high commissioner for Human Rights. We must attack the poverty, deprivation and economic underdevelopment which so often lie at the heart of instability and insecurity. The Secretary-General should draw up an agenda for development. It should incorporate a bold rethinking of how the United Nations can best play its important role in the economic and social spheres, while avoiding the duplication of activities best carried forward elsewhere. The Agenda could help redefine the role of the United Nations in promoting sustainable development in close cooperation with other international economic and financial institutions. We owe no less to the children of the world as we celebrate the third anniversary of the Summit for Children. (spoke in French) To be lasting, economic growth has to respect the environment. Hence, we have to follow through on our collective commitments at last year’s Rio Summit to protect the environment. The social and economic costs of not doing so are simply unacceptable, a fact that is all too real for the thousands of Canadians dependent on the Atlantic fishery. (spoke in English) The brutal collapse of the fishery in the North-West Atlantic and elsewhere is compelling evidence of the need to address that crisis urgently. The United Nations must urgently adopt a legally binding international regime to conserve and manage high-seas fish stocks. It is clear, however, that no amount of development assistance can match the economic growth that could be achieved through a freer flow of goods, services, capital and ideas among our Member States. Indeed, the single most important step we can take collectively towards improving the prosperity of developing and developed economies alike would be to reach, without any further delay, a substantial outcome to the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations. These discussions have reached a pivotal stage; we must not lose this precious opportunity. My Government remains committed to doing its part to reach that goal and to pursuing other opportunities for trade liberalization, such as through the North American Free Trade Agreement. We are convinced that the Agreement will make the North American economies both more competitive and more open and will provide a much needed stimulus to global trade and investment. Our peace and security are not there for the taking. We must work for them, and work hard - in our own countries, in our regions, and globally. We must renew and revitalize existing structures and, where necessary, build anew. We have a historic opportunity to make good on the language of the United Nations Charter, on the thwarted promise of those early days, to build in our own time a cooperative system of 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session peace and security which respects difference but holds fast to universal principles of human dignity and freedom. Let us move forward, together, now. Mr. President, it gives me great pleasure to see you, a son of the Caribbean, presiding over the General Assembly at this forty-eight session with the skill, competence and wealth of experience we have come to associate with you. My delegation is confident that under your leadership this session of the General Assembly will complete its vitally important agenda. I also wish to express to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, our appreciation for the most able manner in which he presided over the forty-seventh session. 16 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session May I take this opportunity also to welcome formally to the United Nations the six countries - the Czech Republic, Eritrea, Monaco, the Slovak Republic, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Andorra - which joined the Organization this year. Today the global community is at a crossroads in history, poised between the prospect of peaceful economic progress through globalization and technological advancement and a relapse into conflict fuelled by poverty, political tyranny and ethnic strife. This situation has emerged with the end of the cold war, which has ushered in ideological détente, and where the threat of nuclear conflict between super-Powers has receded. This is not, however, a cause for complacency, because unsupervised economic globalization coupled with an escalation of political fragmentation could ignite fierce conflict between economic blocs and social groups world wide. The present dilemma is how we can capitalize collectively on the advantage offered by economic globalization, while avoiding political fragmentation owing to the resurgence of religious and ethnic intolerance and chauvinistic nationalism. Globalization, if not complemented by a comprehensive global economic framework, could lead to wider disparities between developed and developing countries, leaving a growing portion of the world’s population mired in poverty as entire productive sectors and economic activities are marginalized from the dynamic of economic growth in the world economy. The United Nations is the only forum that can forge a global institutional consensus, a multilateral regulatory regime, and commonly subscribe to goals and understandings that will reduce the tendency to economic inequities. A shared economic development consensus could provide the basis for more equitable participation for the less developed countries. Whether mankind succeeds in seizing the present opportunity for peace and economic progress depends crucially on the United Nations as a mechanism for a new global dialogue based on genuine partnership between States with widely differing philosophies, policies and practices. The United Nations, with severe constraints of financial and human resources, has in the past year courageously attempted to meet these challenges, understandably with mixed results. We therefore wish to pay tribute to the Secretary-General and his dedicated staff of professionals who have played a critical role in the search for resolution of bitter conflicts in every region - conflicts which have inflicted massive human suffering and devastation of the land. In Cambodia, elections have taken place and a new Government has been installed. That achievement in Cambodia will, we hope, mark the beginning of a new era of peace and stability in South-East Asia. On the African continent, we welcome the signing of the Cotonou Peace Agreement on 25 July, and we urge that all the parties to the conflict in Liberia remain committed to this Agreement and work with the United Nations and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to bring lasting peace to that country. Unfortunately, the situation in Somalia continues to be tragic and dangerous. We hope that, through the efforts of the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM) and others, there will be a speedy return of peace to this land fractured and devastated by civil strife. Jamaica regrets the continuing loss of life of members of the UNOSOM forces. Developments in South Africa are moving in a positive direction. We welcome the decision to hold, on 27 April 1994, elections open to all parties which will mark the transition of South Africa to a democratic and non-racial society, and we eagerly anticipate the establishment of the Transitional Executive Council. The call by Mr. Mandela for the removal of sanctions is a welcome one. Jamaica has participated in building consensus for the United Nations resolution to lift sanctions, and it intends to lift them immediately upon the adoption of the resolution. The situation in the States of the former Yugoslavia is also an agonizing chronicle of tragic strife, suffering and abuses. We continue to hope for a just settlement on the basis of Security Council resolution 859 (1993), which affirms the fundamental principles on which such a settlement should be based. Jamaica too hails the signing of the peace accord between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization on 13 September 1993, while fully recognizing that the progress achieved, despite its significance, is but an initial step. Indeed, there are complex matters that will face negotiators in the months and years ahead. Nearer to home, in the Caribbean, the Government of Jamaica and its partners in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) have placed the resolution of the Haitian crisis high among their priorities. CARICOM has been actively involved at the United Nations in the effort to bring the issue of Haiti before the Security Council, and I express my Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 17 Government’s appreciation to the member States of the Latin American and Caribbean Group for their support in this process. We also commend the Special Envoy of the Secretaries-General of the United Nations and the Organization of American States, Mr. Dante Caputo, for his untiring commitment to this issue. However, in the light of the grim evidence that dangerous elements are at work in Haiti, clearly determined to deny the Haitian people security, democracy and development, the international community cannot relax its vigilance. President Jean-Bertrand Aristide is scheduled to return to Haiti on 30 October. His return will mark the beginning of a long and difficult period of reconstruction. He will need the full support and commitment of our Organization, as well as of the entire international community. There is urgency in the call for economic and technical assistance. Indeed, the Government of Jamaica has already offered, within our means, to provide Haiti with some technical assistance. This new era following the cold war presents mankind with new opportunities for a more rational and equitable management of problems at the global level. I refer, in particular, to the struggle against poverty and ethnic strife, human-rights violations and environmental degradation. The end of cold-war confrontations - political as well as military and ideological - should not be replaced by economic conflict. We must grasp the opportunity for constructive action and now work towards an era of cooperation that is not distorted by ideological and political tensions. The Security Council Summit meeting on 31 January 1992 concluded with a statement in which it was said that its members recognized 'that peace and prosperity are indivisible and that lasting peace and stability require effective international cooperation for the eradication of poverty and the promotion of a better life for all in larger freedom'. (S/23500, p. 5) We strongly support that view. For many developing countries, including my own, market-oriented reforms have been a high priority. We have made fundamental changes in economic policy, including monetary and fiscal austerity, trade liberalization, divestment of public enterprises to the private sector, liberalization of foreign-exchange markets and general deregulation of economies. In short, we have undertaken a thoroughgoing process of structural adjustment, which has created a private- sector-led, market-driven economy. For countries that are undertaking economic structural adjustment the social consequences are high indeed. Tight monetary and fiscal management reduces the capacity to provide basic social services, such as health, education and housing. Yet, if human needs are not adequately met, if human resources are not developed, we destroy the very basis of sustained development: our people. Migration - national and international - is one of the clearest manifestations of social ills. If people do not find economic security in their native land, they go wherever they can find it - from rural to urban area; from one country or one continent to another. So today there are some 35 million displaced persons. And such people are to be found in every region. The processes of structural adjustment are rendered extremely difficult in the absence of sustained international support - either directly, through the sustained infusion of external resources by way of development assistance and debt relief, or indirectly, through reduced protectionism in industrialized countries. Let me give an example related to debt. Although my Government has managed to reduce the stock of external debt, debt servicing remains the most debilitating constraint on the country’s economic development. The fact that international financial institutions, to which much of Jamaica’s debt is owed, refuse to consider the rescheduling of loans continues to be a major concern of my Government. The consequence of this policy is that even those resources generated by developing countries themselves are not available for the pursuit of national development objectives, as they are pre-empted by debt-servicing. I should like to refer to trade liberalization and trade arrangements, especially with regard to countries undergoing structural adjustment. In my own region, the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) has put in place mechanisms to enhance regional trade. At the same time, however, the Community is faced with the Herculean task of avoiding or minimizing the likely short-term to medium-term adverse impacts on its members of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) when it takes effect. We have had to make vigorous efforts to ensure that the gains achieved under existing agreements are not eroded. Similarly, conditionality applied to loans by international financial institutions must be designed to be more appropriate to developing economies. More specifically, adjustment must take place over an extended 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session period, must minimize social distress and must be growth- oriented. My delegation therefore attaches great importance to the formulation of an agenda for development. That process should proceed with the sense of urgency and vision with which the undeniably constructive 'Agenda for Peace' has been promoted. Such an agenda must be forward-looking and must address fully the wide range of issues pertaining to development, taking into account the specific circumstances and needs of developing countries and groups of countries. It must first establish, as its basic premise, the need for a favourable international economic environment and a non-- discriminatory trading system, the latter being dependent on a speedy, balanced and comprehensive outcome to the Uruguay Round of trade negotiations. Without these conditions, the efforts of developing countries to build self-sustaining economies - efforts often accompanied by painful adjustment strategies and difficult economic- liberalization programmes - will be frustrated. The need for a constructive North-South dialogue to be reactivated has therefore become urgent, and has certainly become one of the most pressing challenges we face in elaborating our agenda for development. We were consequently appreciative of the initiative taken by the Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement to meet with the Chairman of the Group of 7 in Tokyo. We regard this as an encouraging beginning. The agenda for development cannot be complete if it does not include consideration of the problem of external indebtedness and formulation of specific solutions for its resolution. A review of the role and functions of the Bretton Woods institutions is therefore necessary. Similarly, the reality and inevitability of regional economic integration processes must be confronted in the agenda for development, as well as the protection of the environment, following the ground-breaking achievements of the historic United Nations Conference on Environment and Development last year in Rio de Janeiro. The goal of sustainable development provides a holistic framework for the United Nations and its Member States to shape a world in which care and respect for human beings is equalled only by care and respect for the planet which we inhabit. At the Earth Summit in Rio, we undertook to implement measures that would safeguard our natural habitat. Some of the decisions taken in Rio have already begun to take effect. These include the establishment of the Commission on Sustainable Development and the preparations for the convening of the first Global Conference on Sustainable Development of Small Island States. My delegation wishes to stress the importance of this Conference, which is to be held in Barbados next year. We take this opportunity to call upon the Members of the Assembly to give full support to the adoption by the Conference of a plan of action for the sustainable development of small island developing States. This will be the first test of our readiness and commitment to implement the decisions taken at the Earth Summit. Equally, Jamaica fully supports the World Conference on Population and Development, to be held in Cairo in 1994; the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen in 1995; and the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing in 1995. It gives me great pleasure to allude to the 1982 law of the sea Convention, which was signed in Montego Bay, Jamaica, 11 years ago and has now been ratified by 58 countries. I expect that before the end of this forty-eighth session of the General Assembly the sixtieth ratification will be deposited with the Secretary-General, thus setting the stage for the Convention’s entry into force. There can be no question that support for the Convention continues to be overwhelming. Our ultimate goal must be to achieve universal participation in a Convention which is designed for mankind as a whole. It is therefore appropriate that all the Convention as soon as possible. As the pace of ratification intensifies, it could serve as a catalyst for deepening the process of universalizing the Convention by addressing creatively the manner in which the provisions of the Convention are to be implemented on an ongoing, contemporary basis. We must pay a tribute, as well, to the Secretary-General and his predecessor for the initiative they took to promote a dialogue aimed at addressing issues of concern to some States in order to achieve universal participation in the Convention. The integrity of the Convention as a whole must be maintained, and our search for universality must recognize the overwhelming support for the Convention by the international community as a whole and the need to preserve its fundamental aspects. Let us therefore in our noble quest for universality concentrate on the manner of the implementation of the Convention in those areas of concern to some States. If the United Nations is to play an active and dynamic role in promoting a new global partnership, it must examine its capacity and capability. For that reason, my delegation agrees that the reform processes now under way should aim at maximizing the efficiency and effectiveness of the Forty-eighth session - 7 October l993 19 Organization. Further, my delegation intends to participate fully in the work of the open-ended ad hoc working group which will continue to consider the process of revitalizing the General Assembly. Other discussions related to the restructuring of the United Nations system must be transparent and informed by the principles of democracy and the rules of international law and by those principles enshrined in the Charter. My Government wishes to address the issue of the Security Council in the context of the increased membership of the United Nations, which rose to 184 this year. The surging tide of change over the past five years has seen the responsibilities of the Security Council increase, with the establishment of 17 peace-keeping operations and the Council’s further involvement in conflict resolution through the good offices of the Secretary-General and the dispatch of fact-finding missions. The time has therefore obviously come for a review of the Security Council’s composition to ensure that it is truly representative of the increased membership of the United Nations and reflects the democratic principle on which the United Nations is founded - that is, the sovereign equality of all States. The reform process in which we are now engaged within the United Nations must clearly include the Security Council, the body charged with the responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. A Security Council which is truly representative and functions effectively has to be a priority for all of us, because peace and security, in the military and political sense, are interwoven with our economic and social security. We in the Caribbean cannot, and have no desire to, remain aloof from this debate. We must ensure that a strengthened United Nations is placed in a position to play a dominant role in the elaboration of processes of peace and development and in their implementation based on genuine interdependence, global partnership and shared responsibility. We are gathered here because we all have pressing national concerns and we believe there remains an enduring faith in multilateralism, which carries the potential for stronger, more broadly based development over the longer term, if only all players agree to reaffirm their commitment and play fully their roles within the global framework of cooperation. There is no doubt that this will be difficult, but shared objectives, shared commitment and shared responsibilities will ensure a better world for all mankind. As we contemplate the challenges posed by the present global, economic and political environment, we must commit ourselves to a new dialogue within the United Nations system to forge a global partnership for peace, democracy and economic progress. I deem it a special pleasure and honour to extend my cordial congratulations to the President on his election to preside over the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I also wish to express my high esteem for the excellent way in which the former President, Mr. Ganev, presided over the proceedings of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. May I hail the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and in particular for his dynamic role and valuable personal contribution. The Albanian delegation takes this opportunity to greet the six newest Member States. In particular, we welcome the presence here of our neighbour, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, whose stability, territorial integrity and international recognition are of great importance for stability in the Balkans. Since the last session of the General Assembly we have seen many important events. We have witnessed the endeavours of peoples for progress, prosperity, harmony and understanding, peace and cooperation, as well as for survival. The end of the cold war paved the way for the attainment of the peoples’ denied aspirations to self-determination and national identity, democracy and equality. It brought their national and spiritual assets closer to each other and enhanced their endeavours to occupy their rightful place in the list of civilized nations of the world. But these endeavours were also accompanied by crises and conflicts, which have grown and are now among our most serious challenges. We hail with the greatest pleasure today the impressive progress made by Israel and the PLO, as manifested in the historic agreement to put an end to years and years of hostility. This remarkable achievement is the best proof that if willingness is shown by all parties, a suitable and acceptable solution can always be found. This is the right moment to recall the worthy contribution made by the major actors in world diplomacy to this end and express our conviction that with such a commitment they will continue to deal with other similar crucial questions. At last year’s session of the General Assembly the Albanian delegation had the pleasure to declare in this Hall 44 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session the victory of the democratic forces and their commitment to Albania’s reintegration into the community of democratic and civilized nations. Today, from the same rostrum, I have the honour and the obligation to state that my country’s democratic transformation has been successful, embracing all fields and spheres of human activity. This transformation has once and for all determined the direction in which Albanian society will go, and it is forging ahead fast. After more than a year of such government, Albania has taken big steps in the setting up of qualitatively new political and social structures and institutions, as well as in the observation and legal guarantee of the rights and freedoms of individuals. We can truly speak now of an overall democratic restructuring of Albanian society. Our goal is to consolidate the constitutional democratic political order by setting up democratic institutions with a view to taking action on various political subjects and non-governmental organizations with a view to guaranteeing participation by all citizens in the running of the country. Albania is being led by people possessed of new aspirations, ideologies and ideas. The Government and its programme enjoy general approval, which ensures political stability at home. Making headway in Albania along with general democratic reform is economic reform, aimed at a total restructuring of a closed and inefficient economy on the path to a free and open market economy. This restructuring is difficult and truly painful, given the conditions of a country that had known no reform or any kind of cooperation. The economic recession the world is experiencing today has a considerable bearing on the outcome of reform in Albania. Furthermore, the strict implementation of United Nations sanctions, and the considerable economic losses consequent upon it, have influenced the rhythm of Albania’s economic recovery. To be successful, Albanian economic policy also counts on assistance and cooperation through programmes of such important world economic institutions as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the European Community, and on specific programmes of aid and cooperation with member countries of that Community and a number of other States. Albania has surpassed the stage of emergency aid and is working intensively to carry out capital-producing projects, in which an important role is also played by United Nations agencies such as the United Nations Development Programme and the United Nations Children’s Fund. In spite of the fact that the Government has been in power for only a short time, positive results are evident. Application of a strict monetary policy has reduced inflation from a monthly rate of 15 per cent in 1992 to 0.9 per cent in March 1993. Since August of last year, the Albanian currency has shown a fairly fixed exchange rate in relation to hard currencies, and the budgetary deficit has been reduced significantly. As result of the massive privatization of agricultural land, production has increased by 25 per cent. It is only natural that at this time Albania has to cope not only with the difficulties of transition and world economic recession, but with those caused by the long war in Bosnia and Herzegovina and other complex political developments in the region, which negatively affect our efforts to restore our ruined economy and hinder the promotion of the democratic process not only in Albania but in the entire Balkan region. We consider the creation of a democratic space and a climate of peace, security and stability in the former Yugoslavia and all over the Balkans to be factors of decisive importance for the future of this region, which has been overburdened with so many conflicts. We are resolved to contribute constructively to the establishment of such a democratic space of peace, understanding and cooperation among the Balkan countries. The priority of Albanian foreign policy is the creation of favourable conditions for the democratic transformation and total revival of the country. We see the solution of all our problems precisely in the creation of this democratic space in the Balkans and the full incorporation of this region in the European process of integration. In this context, Albania’s permanent political goal remains step-by-step and overall integration in Europe by encouraging parallel cooperation with the European collective economic, political and security forums and structures. Reliable guarantees of accelerated integration are advanced democratic legislation worked out in compliance with European standards and the institutional restructuring of State administration and local government, along with total privatization of the economy and the general encouragement of local and foreign private initiative and activity in Albania. Reference should also be made at this point to direct assistance from an important forum of European democracy, the Council of Europe. Albania regards the North Atlantic Treaty Organization as an institution of effective vitality, which is indispensable to organized concrete inter-State cooperation towards a real collective security system in Europe and the entire Euro-Atlantic area. Our relations with this important political and military organization for security in Europe are intended to constantly enhance cooperation towards full integration in its structures. In close cooperation with other Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 45 Euro-Atlantic institutions, the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe and the North Atlantic Cooperation Council also have a very important role to play in safeguarding peace, not only through confidence-building measures and increased understanding among the participating states, but also in the prevention of conflicts and the peaceful settlement of disputes. We are confident that only a common security policy is conducive to a climate of mutual confidence, capable of coping with new challenges. Through the position we have expressed at these forums, Albania has proved that it consistently abides by this assessment. The protection and observance of human rights, one of the fundamental issues of the new world democratic order today, are closely linked with stable development, democratic transformation, political stability and international security, especially of the underdeveloped and turbulent regions of the world. Human rights are indissolubly interwoven with the aspirations of mankind to well-being and socio-economic and political progress, freedom and democracy. It is imperative for all members of the international community at present to commit themselves, according to their respective domestic conditions, to joint efforts to translate these aspirations into reality for the sake of a civilized and advanced world. The Albanian people, who will never forget the high price paid during half a century of brutal dictatorship, attaches a high value to human rights and political and civil freedoms. In compliance with this assessment, our Government considers support for democracy and human rights to be the guide of its political orientation. It is determined to build a modern State and a civilized society, based on respect for the human rights of all strata of the population without exception or discrimination. Albania has adhered to two basic United Nations pacts on human rights and is making preparations to adhere to a series of other conventions. Not long ago, for the first time in the history of the country, the Albanian Parliament endorsed the Constitutional Law on Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, thereby testifying to our determination to put human rights at the forefront of the stable foundations of the new Albanian democratic society we are building. We consider respect for minority rights to be an important and indivisible aspect of human rights. Albania’s policy in this field rests on the principles of full equality and non-discrimination, the creation of a broad democratic space so that persons belonging to national minorities can assert their own national identity, and the creation of a climate of exemplary trust and coexistence. Minorities are an integral part of the political, social and economic life of Albania; as protagonists of the democratic development and transformation of the country, they have access to real representation in all socio-political structures, at State and local levels of administration. Their situation in economic and social domains will improve hand in hand with that of the rest of the population. The end of the cold war freed mankind from the fear of global confrontation, even though peace and security are still seriously threatened by a number of regional conflicts. In some regions of the world, the actions and practices of some States where totalitarian and ultranationalist regimes are in power run counter to the aspirations and endeavours of the peace-loving international community. More than 30 armed conflicts, accompanied by savage crimes and great suffering for the civilian population, are currently ablaze in various regions of the world. These conflicts, which are a flagrant violation of human rights and which are attended by all the inevitable consequences, have seriously shocked mankind. The conflict in the former Yugoslavia, especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the bloodiest and most dangerous conflict known in Europe since the Second World War, has not yet found a stable solution. The monstrous massacres carried out against the innocent civilian population, 'ethnic cleansing' - that barbaric form of genocide - and all the other inhuman acts associated with this conflict have once more testified to the fact that it is impossible to reform totalitarian and ultra-nationalist societies. This conflict is a challenge to civilized Europe, to the conscience and humanitarian sentiments and passions of the whole of peace-loving mankind. That is why a firm collective answer from mankind is required. We have seen that the imposition of sanctions, despite the effect on the Serbian economy, was not the only or the most effective means to put an end to the war and restore peace. This is because the practical commitment of some countries did not match their verbal statements in support of the sanctions. That is why sanctions failed to paralyse and seriously damage the Serbian war machine. Time has proved that the sanctions needed to be accompanied by other, simultaneous, measures of pressure. We think that a convincing example should be set for everybody, demonstrating that the reaction and the stand of the United Nations will always be the same in cases of aggression. It is the Organization’s duty to use all means at its disposal to implement the principles of the Charter, to make peace, and to fulfil the hopes of mankind. But we understand that the United Nations sanctions, as the only means based on the world community’s consensus, will continue to be applied, putting the necessary pressure on 46 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session the Belgrade authorities until a final solution of the whole Yugoslav crisis is found, including an overall improvement of the situation in Kosovo. The Yugoslav crisis is multidimensional and complicated because of many interlacing factors and interests. It is evident that its most tragic and bloodiest manifestation is the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which for more than a year has been the centre of the attention and the efforts of public opinion and of the diplomacy of the major Powers of the world. I would like to stress that my country has condemned the Serbian aggression, and has hailed and unreservedly supported all the endeavours of the international community to establish peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Republic of Albania will support any solution to the Bosnian conflict which is based on a free and fair agreement. Solutions which legalize territorial annexation and 'ethnic cleansing' at the expense of other peoples such as the Muslim population in Bosnia can hardly be heralds of peace. Moreover, we would like to remind this important international forum that the other aspects of the Yugoslav crisis should not be neglected either, for these could have consequences of tragic proportions not only within the former Yugoslavia but also in the Balkans and beyond. In that light, I would like to point out that the Albanian factor in the former Yugoslavia, especially the Kosovo issue, is of a crucial importance to finding an equitable and lasting solution to the crisis. Therefore, we insist that this problem has to be properly addressed. If, in assessing this factor, there is insistence on the rigid position that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia, that it is annexed to Serbia and that the Albanian people in the former Yugoslavia are a minority, then nothing will be achieved, but the idea of creating a 'Greater Serbia' will be reconfirmed and legalized at the expense of other peoples. We think that the breakup of the former Yugoslavia - which was also the cause of what is now called the Yugoslav crisis - puts the issue of succession in the former Yugoslav federation in an entirely new light: it brings up the question of considering the peoples’ right of self-determination, and the expression of their free will as to their political status. If this means war, as some people think, then it is up to the United Nations and the Security Council to intervene and guarantee respect for the principles of the Charter. We firmly maintain that no forcible change of borders or territorial gains through aggression and 'ethnic cleansing' will be recognized. The choice is clear: if we want people to believe in the new world order, we must create all the legitimate international conditions needed to realize and defend their aspirations, by setting up an entirely new type of system of United Nations protection for defenceless countries and peoples. As to the national question of the Albanians, we see its solution in the creation in the former Yugoslavia and all over the Balkans of a broad democratic space that would allow freedom of communication and freedom of movement among the more than 7 million Albanians who live, in territorial continuity, in that space. We are against territorial fragmentation and division, and the hermetic sealing of a single people within the borders of neighbouring countries. I believe that I am also expressing the opinion of many countries represented here when I say that the outbreak of a conflict in Kosovo would be the start of a great tragedy. Albania expresses its profound gratitude to the international community for all the efforts it has made to prevent a spillover of the conflict to Kosovo and to support the denied rights of the Albanian people there. I also express my gratitude to the United Nations, which has clearly warned that any warlike act by Serbia in Kosovo will pose a threat to international peace and security. We highly appreciate this support and call for a serious commitment by the international community to take all the necessary urgent measures to prevent the Bosnian tragedy from recurring in Kosovo. Albania has long made it clear that placing Kosovo under the control and protection of the United Nations is the only guaranteed way of preventing conflict and discouraging the silent 'ethnic cleansing' that Serbia is practising there. It would also create a favourable climate for dialogue between the legitimate Albanian representatives of Kosovo and the Serbian authorities on the political status of the province and on any other issue linked with the question of succession to the former Yugoslavia. Therefore, we reiterate our stand that only the United Nations, and primarily the Security Council, should expeditiously take the necessary measures to prevent conflict in that region. At a time when the concept of using peace-keeping forces prior to a conflict has been consolidated in theory and has been put into practice, preventive deployment is fully justified in the case of Kosovo, because of the threat that the outbreak of an intra-Balkan armed conflict would pose to international peace and security. Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 47 We are profoundly concerned about the issue of Kosovo and the grave situation created there since the elimination of its autonomy in 1989 and its complete annexation and subjection to Serbian military and police authority, and we call for proper attention to the fact that a peaceful settlement of the Yugoslav crisis should cover the entire space of the former Yugoslavia and all its aspects and problems. Any partial settlement without the necessary international safeguards would be unstable and would not do away with the germs of new conflicts. To sum up, I would like to reiterate that the Republic of Albania sees in the United Nations an organization capable of implementing the principles of its Charter and coping with all the challenges that result from the dynamic developments of our time, especially serious problems in the fields of security, disarmament, sustainable socio-economic development, environment and so on. We see the United Nations also as the primary institution responsible for the collective safeguarding of peace and security in the new era. Albania will render unreserved support to all initiatives aimed at enhancing the efficiency of this universal Organization.It gives me great pleasure to begin my statement by congratulating Mr. Insanally of Guyana on his election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session - the 'session of peace'. This choice reflects the confidence of Member States in his political ability and diplomatic skill and their regard for his country. He will have our full cooperation and support. We are confident that, with his experience and wisdom, he will lead us to success in our work. I should like also to express to Mr. Insanally’s predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, our deep appreciation and gratitude for the excellent manner in which he conducted the work of the General Assembly during its forty-seventh session. It also gives me great pleasure to welcome, in the name of the State of Qatar, all the States that recently joined this Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 17 international Organization, which, session after session, has reaffirmed its universal character. We look forward to the contribution of these States in an Organization that represents all nations of the world, without exception. On this occasion, I should like to convey to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, my Government’s deep appreciation for his commitment and dedication to the principles of the United Nations, for the political ability and diplomatic skill that he has demonstrated, since he assumed this high position, in dealing with international problems and crises, and for his unremitting efforts, his discernment and his farsightedness in revitalizing this world Organization so that it may face up to the challenges posed by a changing world and achieve peace on earth. This is reflected in part by his praiseworthy report entitled 'Agenda for Peace' (A/47/277), which contains important proposals in the areas of preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-keeping. The new phase the world has embarked on after the end of the cold war and the emergence of new complexities in international relations, side by side with the deterioration of the economic situation, especially in developing countries, now face the United Nations with new burdens and responsibilities, which necessitate the restructuring and revitalization of the Organization in order for it to be able to meet successfully the demands of a changing world. As such restructuring and revitalization should include the activities of the United Nations in the areas of security and social and economic development, the State of Qatar believes that it is necessary to consider an increase in the membership of the Security Council in order to make the Council more representative of the international community, since the number of Member States in the Organization has risen, on the one hand, and the balance of power and economic weight of some States have changed, on the other. Such an increase should include both permanent and non-permanent members of the Security Council, and there should be adequate representation of each of the five continents. It is necessary, however, that the membership of the Council should remain within the manageable limits that may enable it to maintain its effectiveness in dealing with world crises that are constantly increasing in gravity. Since the end of cold war and the disappearance of East-West confrontation, major steps have been taken towards arms limitation at the international level. Nuclear arsenals have been reduced, nuclear tests have been frozen, a Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, has been opened for signature and Qatar was among the first to sign it. In this respect, however, I should like to stress a very important point, namely that arms limitation, particularly with respect to weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East, should be given a high priority in the interests of the peace and stability of the States of the region so that the funds released thereby may be channelled to development and the achievement of economic and social progress. This, however, must apply to all the States of the region without exception. Consequently, it is my country’s view that it is important for all the States of the Middle East, without exception, to accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Qatar supports all initiatives aimed at making the Middle East a region free from all nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction and their systems of delivery, especially as we enter upon a new era of peace which, by its nature, contradicts the very idea of developing and stockpiling weapons of mass destruction. The State of Qatar is very much concerned about the international economic situation, believing that a stable international economic situation is the cornerstone for the building of a new world order that could be characterized by stability, security and prosperity. We are particularly concerned about the economic situation of developing countries, most of which are suffering from a heavy burden of indebtedness, the service of which exhausts a large portion of their limited resources which are hardly sufficient to meet the needs of their struggling peoples. We therefore believe that addressing the problem of indebtedness is the first essential step towards strengthening the economies of those countries. We know that there are numerous studies and propositions on this issue, but what is needed more are the political will and genuine desire on the part of rich creditor States to solve once and for all the problem of indebtedness in favour of developing countries, particularly the African least-developed countries. Needless to say, continuing civil wars in the countries of the third world and conflicts among them have taken a heavy toll in the case of those countries and their economies. Among those countries are those of the Gulf region which have had their share of suffering because of recent crises and events in the Middle East. The security and stability of the Gulf region are the foremost objectives that the State of Qatar seeks to achieve by its efforts and contacts. Security and stability, as we all know, are important not only to the States of the region, but also to the entire world because of the region’s strategic importance and its energy resources that the world needs. The State of Qatar believes that this security and stability cannot be achieved other than by cooperation between the 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session States of the region themselves on the basis of good neighbourliness, mutual respect, non-interference in internal affairs, respect for sovereignty and independence, respect for recognized international borders and for the agreements concluded among themselves, and the settlement of differences and of disputes by peaceful means, particularly through negotiation, mediation and international adjudication. From this perspective, the State of Qatar supports all efforts being made to solve the dispute over the three islands of Abu Mousa, Greater Tunb and Smaller Tunb between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran through negotiation and by other peaceful means, in the hope that these peaceful efforts will result in settling all outstanding issues between the two States. In this connection, we welcome the recent statements by officials of both countries in which they expressed their desire to resolve the dispute by peaceful means through bilateral channels. By the same token, the State of Qatar reiterates its full support for the sovereignty of the State of Kuwait and its territorial integrity within its international boundaries as demarcated by Security Council resolution 833 (1993) on the Kuwait-Iraq boundaries. The State of Qatar also reaffirms its concern for the preservation of the territorial integrity of Iraq and calls upon the United Nations and the international community to alleviate the suffering of the Iraqi people, especially in basic civilian and humanitarian areas. This requires full compliance by Iraq with all the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, first among which is resolution 687 (1991) in all its provisions. The State of Qatar is following with great interest the successive and positive developments in the march towards peace in the Middle East. These developments in our opinion turn a new page in the history of the region. We have welcomed the agreement reached by the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel concerning self- government in the Gaza Strip and Jericho, as a first step towards a just, complete and lasting solution to the Palestinian question and the Arab-Israeli conflict on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), the principle of land for peace, full Israeli withdrawal from all occupied Arab territories including the holy city of Al- Quds and the Golan Heights, southern Lebanon as well as the occupied Jordanian territories, and the implementation of the legitimate national rights of the Palestinian people, including the right of self-determination. This will lay the foundation for security and stability in the Middle East. In this respect, Qatar reiterates its continued support for the peace efforts undertaken according to and on the basis of the principles agreed upon. It looks forward to seeing the ongoing negotiations make fundamental and parallel progress on all tracks. Short of this, no real peace, in our view, could be achieved in the region. We also follow with hope and admiration the efforts by our sister country, Lebanon, towards political stability, security and reconstruction. The State of Qatar will spare no effort in supporting Lebanon’s sovereignty and sharing in the reconstruction of that country in response to the call of brotherhood. In this context, Qatar calls for full and unconditional implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978). The State of Qatar, which condemns terrorism in any shape or form, values greatly the question of human rights. This stems from Qatar’s belief in the dignity of man and its adherence to the eternal principles of Islamic Sharia, which uphold the right of the individual to a decent life of freedom, justice, peace, brotherhood and the equality of all men. Given this belief, Qatar views human rights as a high moral value that should not be used as a means of or a pretext for interference in the internal affairs of other States, and an issue that should not be addressed by varying standards that differ from the case of one State to the other. In view of the universal character of human rights, their basic principles should include the right to self-determination and the inherent link between human rights and the right to development. In view of the fact that each society has its own customs, traditions, culture and principles which it cherishes and adheres to in line with its creed and outlook, consideration should be given to the historical and cultural frameworks of the Arab and Islamic world as well as to those of other cultures and civilizations. Here I should like to point out with justified pride that Islam, 14 centuries ago, upheld the right of the individual to live in peace, freedom and dignity. This is the true picture of human rights in Islam. The international community, as represented by the General Assembly and the Security Council, has condemned the Serbian aggression in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the unprecedented practice of 'ethnic cleansing' of which the Bosnian Muslim people was the victim. But what use condemnation? Condemnation has had no effect whatsoever, as it has not been backed by action: the successive resolutions adopted by the Security Council have remained ineffective; aggression did not stop; 'ethnic cleansing' continued, the safe areas have not been safe and even relief assistance did not reach the people in the besieged cities and areas. Yet, the Security Council has not taken the necessary steps to enforce compliance with its resolutions as it has done in other cases. Even the arms Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 19 embargo the Council imposed on the former Yugoslavia was not lifted in the case of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina regardless of the fact that lifting it would enable the Bosnians to exercise their legitimate right of self-defence; nor were the offers of some Islamic States to send forces to take part in protecting the safe areas accepted. Now, if this painful situation does not change and if the necessary measures to enforce these resolutions are not taken, history will record our disgraceful failure to uphold the principles of the Charter and to force aggressors to respect the norms of international legality. Besides, we must not forget that it is important not to allow such grave violations to continue to be committed with impunity. These violations are crimes against humanity and, therefore, the State of Qatar fully supports the resolution relating to the establishment of the International Tribunal to prosecute war crimes in the former Yugoslavia. The State of Qatar follows with great interest the developments in the Russian Federation. We hope that that Federation will overcome its crises so that it may continue to perform its important role in resolving global crises in its capacity as a permanent member of the Security Council, a co-sponsor of the peace negotiations in the Middle East and a participant that has taken significant steps in the area of limiting nuclear armaments. Qatar supports the United Nations operation in our sister country, Somalia, and welcomes the determination of the world Organization to continue this operation, which aims at restoring peace and security in that country and at the reconstruction of its State institutions in spite of all the difficulties. We call upon the Somali leaderships to continue the process of national reconciliation, to support the United Nations efforts, to play their role in the process of political reconstruction and to refrain from doing anything that would obstruct that process. The State of Qatar follows with interest the historic positive developments taking place in the Republic of South Africa, and welcomes the progress that has been made towards the final dismantling of the hideous system of apartheid and the establishment of a democratic system for the first time in the history of that country. While welcoming these important developments in the political arena in this Republic, Qatar supports the call by Mr. Nelson Mandela, president of the African National Congress, for lifting the economic sanctions imposed on his country and from which its people have been suffering for years. This, in our opinion, would promote the democratic process and consolidate economic development in that country. Stability of the situation in South-East Asia was among the positive results we have witnessed in the peaceful settlement of conflicts. This was achieved by resolving the conflict in Cambodia, drafting the new constitution and restoring the monarchy. This peace was achieved after long years of persistent struggle under the leadership of Norodom Sihanouk for establishing peace and security in the country and restoring its territorial integrity and its sovereignty over its whole territory. In this connection, we commend the continuous efforts made by the United Nations and its Secretary-General, efforts that paved the way for elections and led to success of the peace process in Cambodia. The last decade has witnessed increasing interest in environmental issues at both the official and popular levels. Indeed, the environment has become a high priority on the agendas of States and an integral part of their national interests and security. This is a positive and necessary development. It is, however, most important in this respect to identify precisely the sources of pollution and the relationship between the environment and economic development. The imposition of an energy tax at the present time would limit the possibilities of development in the State of Qatar and other oil-exporting States. It would affect adversely their ability to meet their obligations and limit their ability to finance the exploration and production operations that would enable them as producers to satisfy the increasing demand on oil. In an independent world, such negative effects will not be limited to the oil-exporting countries but will extend to other countries and to other economic sectors all over the world. It is obvious that the idea of an energy tax on exporting countries is unfair both in its proposed rates on the sources of environmental pollution and in comparison with other sources of pollution, such as coal. The negative environmental effects of the use of coal far exceed those of the use of oil. Notwithstanding such facts, however, we find that the tax rates have been proposed in the reverse ratio to the effects of the pollutants. On the other hand, the proposed tax does not take into consideration the amount of pollution caused by every individual State. A single major industrial country may very well pollute the environment to a far greater extent than any number of oil-producing countries put together. Regardless of this, however, the tax targets the latter in a manner that suggests objectives other than the preservation of the environment. It is no exaggeration to state that the world we all live in faces numerous challenges. The economic, social and political problems which face many countries in today’s world have become so enormous and so complex that they may well seem intractable. However, if we let ourselves be 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session guided by the spirit of the Charter and the principles of our world Organization, and if we stand as one behind the United Nations, we are bound to find proper solutions to those problems, which have become a common denominator to all the States of the world. There is no other way but to work harder in the context of world solidarity and international cooperation towards the building of a world wherein the lights of peace, security, stability and well-being would shine brightly. On behalf of the Government and people of Togo, I should like to convey very sincere condolences and feelings of compassion to the people and the Government of India, who have been so harshly afflicted by a cruel catastrophe. Allow me first of all to discharge the pleasant duty of expressing to you, Mr. President, the warm congratulations of the Togo delegation on the unanimous confidence that has been invested in you by dint of your assumption of the lofty and noble task of conducting the debates of the current session. You can count on my delegation’s full cooperation in the performance of the weighty responsibilities that fall to you. My delegation also congratulates the outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Stoyan Ganev, who with great mastery and skill led the work of the forty-seventh session to success. To our Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, I also wish to pay a well- deserved tribute for the remarkable work he has been carrying out since his election to the head of our Organization. I should also like to reiterate to him our very sincere gratitude for his constant and tireless efforts to enhance the effectiveness of the Organization, particularly in the field of peace-keeping and the maintenance of international peace and security. The firm determination he has displayed in the restructuring of the United Nations to better adapt it to present-day realities has also won our admiration. Our Organization is growing steadily, bringing us ever closer to the goal of universality envisaged in the Charter of San Francisco. Togo bids welcome to the new Members that have joined the Organization this year, and we express to them our willingness to work in concert with them in building a world of greater justice and solidarity. The prevailing situation in the world today does not live up to the expectations engendered by the changes that Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 25 took place at the beginning of this decade. The hope of universal renewal characterized by the building of a world of peace, prosperity and justice, marked by reliable solidarity and more active cooperation among nations, has been slow in taking concrete form. The grim picture seen in the tragedies unfolding before our eyes in Somalia, Liberia, Angola, Bosnia and Herzegovina and elsewhere, as well as the persistence of the international economic crisis, leads one to believe that the future of the world is not as rosy as we had hoped. The new order is still rather nebulous. Nevertheless, we welcome the growing involvement of the Organization in settling the various crises facing the world. This bears witness to its new vitality and reflects the growing confidence that Member States place in multilateral cooperation. A year ago we noted from this same rostrum the upheavals that had occurred in recent years throughout the world, particularly in Europe, Asia and Africa. Those signs of the times were then said to exemplify the determination of peoples to gain more freedom and full participation in the management of political affairs. Today, more than ever before, those peoples are still searching for that era of freedom, peace and justice that only democracy, stripped of all disguise and based on clearly understood and assimilated multi-party systems, can provide them, with the support of the international community, though without the need to yield to the temptation of imposing a uniform model. This emancipation movement, to which the African peoples did not hesitate to adhere, has met with different fortunes in its various manifestations. While in certain countries the transition towards democracy has unfolded somewhat smoothly and has made it possible to bring about genuine changes, in others the process has hardly achieved the objectives so earnestly desired. This is true in some countries of the African continent that, because of a lack of understanding between the various players, face enormous difficulties that rend the fabric of society. Because of this lack of understanding, the aspiration of the African peoples to more freedom and democracy, though a legitimate one, has unfortunately given rise here and there to a new type of problem, on top of the continent’s usual troubles. It is unfortunate that my country, Togo, has surely paid a heavier price than others in the ineluctable march towards democratization. Indeed, no one can know the pain and sorrow of our people’s path in its progress towards democracy. Many difficulties arising from serious misunderstandings between the players in national political life regarding what democratization involves have dealt a heavy blow to the democratic process, which we had all hoped with all our hearts would be a peaceful one. This has led to a rare outbreak of political violence, which has ravaged the whole of the national territory, unleashed serious disruptions in the nation and displaced populations. In the face of this worrisome situation that was threatening national cohesion, the Government, anxious to do everything it could to bring the transition to culmination as quickly as possible, has made numerous efforts to find a solution to the political crisis in which our country was plunged. In this spirit, it has done everything it can to combat violence and insecurity by deploying the public security forces in order to ensure, throughout the territory, the peace and order that are indispensable for the free movement of peoples and goods and the proper conduct of social, economic and political activity before, during and after the electoral consultations. However, I hardly think it necessary to go on at great length on this situation, because we were offered the means of a solution, and we did not fail to seize it. Thus, the people of Togo have regained the hope and calm they so needed in order to regain their confidence. The elections of last 25 August - which were held, by and large, in a calm and serene atmosphere and transparency and in the presence of international observers - allowed our people democratically to appoint the first President of the Fourth Togolese Republic. Re-elected with a large majority of the votes cast, the outgoing President, General Gnassingbé Eyadema, set as his main task to work tirelessly, in full respect of human rights, for national reconciliation and the recovery of the country’s economy, ruined by more than two years of turbulent transition. He therefore called upon the sons of the nation to start with a clean slate, to forgive themselves and unite in the struggle for the democratic process and the restoration of the country, in the interests of all. Certainly, some problems remain, but such problems are inherent to any apprenticeship. It is thus possible now to hope that Togo will be restored to its former health. 26 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session In this connection, I am pleased to point out that, with regard to the forthcoming legislative elections, the Government has already taken steps to resolve all the technical problems connected with the organization of the elections so as to ensure that they are held in the greatest possible transparency. Aware that democracy requires the cooperation of all in the management of the polity’s affairs, the Government intends to spare no effort to ensure the opposition’s participation in the forthcoming legislative elections. Our delegation should emphasize here the very useful role played by friendly countries in the search for a successful solution to the crisis in our country. I therefore take the opportunity to thank from this rostrum all those who, from near or far, contributed to our achievement of that result. Our feelings of deep gratitude go out particularly to the people, the Government and the Head of State of Burkina Faso, Mr. Blaise Compaoré, who applied all their talents to bring about that which, several months earlier, still seemed impossible: bring our Togolese brothers around a negotiating table and lead them to reach agreement. I also wish to welcome the sustained action undertaken by France, the Federal Republic of Germany and the United States of America, whose mediation contributed to the favourable outcome of the initiatives. My Government is particularly grateful to the United Nations and to the Organization of African Unity, whose observers in the field made a very valuable contribution to the proper holding of the elections of 25 August 1993. It is to be hoped that the result of this process will be the restoration of national cohesion, allowing the Togolese henceforth to enjoy their rights fully and in all tranquillity, including their right to fundamental freedoms and to development. The World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993, seems to have been an effort to produce international consensus on the further promotion, protection and defence of human rights. That meeting enshrined the axiom, henceforth shared by all, that development, democracy and human rights form an indissociable triad. But can we speak objectively of the effective enjoyment of human rights in the case of a population whose standards of living are below the necessary minimum? The rights to food, education and adequate health care are in fact denied to the citizens of our developing countries, above all because of an unfavourable international economic situation. The first among human rights is the right to life - a decent life. Therefore, in the framework of promoting and protecting human rights, it is necessary to redouble efforts to help the developing countries to assume their responsibility to contribute to the full flowering of the individual. My country, which is deeply devoted to respect for the human person and determined to build a State of law, has assumed as its own - by including them in its new Constitution, adopted by referendum on 27 September 1992 - the fundamental principles of democracy and those linked to the protection and promotion of human rights. Once again, I should like to affirm before this Assembly that Togo is firmly committed to all universal values encompassing the protection and enjoyment of rights inherent to the human person. It is thus with faith and conviction that I aver that the difficulties of adapting national legislation to international norms and the various approaches available in no way detract from the duty of each State to contribute to the tangible and irreversible progress of the cause of human rights throughout the world. The end of the cold war and the disappearance of ideological antagonisms have not yet made it possible to usher in the genuine era of peace to which the world aspired, despite the encouraging prospects these changes seemed to offer. Indeed, narrow nationalism, religious fanaticism, ethnic rivalry and hegemonism have resurfaced, unfortunately plunging certain parts of the world into turmoil. Thus, in Africa, the situation remains disquieting despite the praiseworthy efforts of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity to settle the conflicts ravaging the continent. In Angola, it is unfortunate that war persists and continues to claim many victims, despite the initiatives made to induce the belligerent brothers to lay down their arms. I express the hope that both protagonists, overriding all other considerations, make as their main goals the re-establishment of peace and the higher interests of the Angolan people, and renounce the use of force and find a final and negotiated solution to the conflict. In South Africa, the positive progress achieved - particularly the fixing of 27 April 1994 as the date for the holding of the first multiracial elections - clearly demonstrate that the emergence of a democratic non-racial society in that country is near at hand. In that spirit, Togo welcomes the adoption in Cape Town on 23 September by the three houses of the South African Parliament of a bill instituting a transitional executive council entrusted with helping and controlling governmental activities up to the elections. Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 27 However, the noteworthy progress made recently towards the complete and final dismantling of the apartheid system has been unable to disguise the various acts of violence, aggression, confrontation and assassination that have become daily features of South African political and social life. This increased violence, inspired and cunningly maintained by groupings opposed to change, should prompt the international community to do all in its power to ensure the irreversibility of the process under way. The Togolese Government takes note with interest of the appeal made on 24 September by the President of the African National Congress, Mr. Nelson Mandela, for the lifting of economic sanctions against South Africa. It is our hope that this measure will help to accelerate the democratic process in that country. In Somalia, the deployment of the United Nations Operation has made it possible to alleviate the suffering of the population. My delegation, while welcoming the efforts of the United Nations to restore normal living conditions, expresses its grave concern at the enormous loss of life among the civilian populations and the Blue Helmets alike. Given the present delicate situation there, it is important, as the Security Council unanimously urged on 22 September, to redouble efforts to reach a political settlement. To that end, we cannot overemphasize the need to do everything possible to fulfil the objectives of the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II), namely, the 'facilitation of humanitarian assistance and the restoration of law and order, and of national reconciliation in a free, democratic and sovereign Somalia ...'. (Security Council resolution 865 (1993), para. 4.) As for Liberia and Rwanda, which have for a number of years been arenas of cruel, fratricidal upheavals, Togo is pleased to see that, thanks to the courage, farsightedness and determination of the parties concerned, there are finally some indications of genuine prospects for a final settlement of those conflicts through, respectively, the Cotonou and Arusha Agreements. In the case of Liberia, in particular, my delegation welcomes the arrangements made by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the United Nations for the implementation of the Agreement of 25 July so that the people of Liberia can once again live in peace and security and set about rebuilding their country in regained national unity. In that connection, we believe that the role to be played by the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia (UNOMIL), established by the Security Council on 22 September of this year, will be a very decisive one. With regard to the situation in Western Sahara, Togo welcomes the efforts of the Secretary-General as set forth in his report of 28 July 1993 (S/26185) on that question and urges him to pursue dialogue with the parties to the conflict in order to achieve implementation of the United Nations settlement plan. There are other regions of the world in which conflicts also demand our attention and call for further efforts on our part to come up with adequate solutions. In the case of the Middle East and the Israeli-Arab conflict, Togo welcomes the signing of the agreement on mutual recognition between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and hails it as an important first step towards peace in the region. Today, that agreement and the one relating to Palestinian autonomy in the Gaza Strip and Jericho are indications that things are finally on the right track. My country is more than ever convinced that only the final settlement of the Palestinian problem can lead to peace in the region. True, there is still a long way to travel down the road to peace. In reaching that goal, the protagonists, both Arab and Israeli, need our material and moral support. The consolidation of the process that has been set in motion depends on the international community’s ability to respond effectively and urgently to the economic and social development needs of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, for only viable development can ensure lasting peace in the region. As for the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I should like, on behalf of the Togolese Government, to repeat here our hope for the success of all the initiatives taken by all sides to end the tragedy in that country. No one in the world can sleep peacefully in the knowledge of the anguish of the innocent victims of that conflict. To the protagonists we say: Enough! Enough of dying! Be flexible, be reasonable. 28 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Finally, with regard to Cambodia, Togo welcomes the inestimable peace-keeping efforts made by the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC), which made it possible for free and democratic elections in that country, under United Nations auspices, to be held in May 1993. The various conflicts that beset the world are directly related to the arms race. All countries are in duty bound to increase their efforts to halt that race. At stake are the survival of mankind and national, regional and international peace and security. General and complete disarmament - genuine disarmament - for which all mankind so ardently hopes, requires a substantial contribution from all Member States and the creation of appropriate structures. In this connection, the action of the United Nations in this area should be stepped up in order that the objectives of disarmament can be achieved. The mission of the Regional Disarmament Centres should be viewed in the same context. It is essential that they be made more operational by providing them with adequate human, material and financial resources to enable them fully to discharge their duties. The effectiveness of our Organization obviously depends on restructuring and revitalizing it. My delegation, while welcoming the efforts already exerted in this connection, believes that a review of the Charter is an imperative need in order to enable all the organs of the United Nations to participate fully in the implementation of its purposes and principles. The time has come for the Organization to hew more closely to the spirit of the Charter. My delegation therefore warmly welcomes the proposals that there should be a rethinking of the membership of the Security Council with a view to its expansion. In that endeavour it is important that serious consideration be given to equitable geographical representation of various regions so as to endow the universal Organization with a broader international consensus that would provide a solid basis for its actions and make it more dynamic, more active and more efficient. As far as relations between States are concerned, the Government of Togo, in keeping with its policy of openness, dialogue and concerted action, firmly adheres to the principles of non-interference in the internal affairs of States and the non-use of force. Furthermore, we believe that, given the present state of international relations, the Organization should help its Members to create domestic conditions that can contribute to the elimination of tensions capable of leading to war either within or between States. It was in that spirit that we welcomed last year the highly pertinent recommendations formulated by the Secretary-General in his report, 'An Agenda for Peace', which were aimed at the maintenance and restoration of international peace and security. Today more than ever before, the United Nations must strengthen its capacity to maintain and preserve that peace and security, to ensure respect for human rights and to promote economic and social progress. The economic and social gap between rich and poor countries is growing wider by the day, and the economies of the developing countries, particularly the least developed among them, are prey to chronic recession. In Africa the situation is even more tragic. The peoples of Africa, already the victims of undernourishment, famine and all kinds of other ills, are also bearing the full brunt of the constant decrease in export prices, the continuous deterioration of terms of trade, the obstacles imposed on trade, and the burden of indebtedness. In the area of international trade, relationships are ruled by the law of the jungle. The persistence of protectionism and the adoption of Draconian measures against exports from developing countries continue to hamper the efforts they are making to achieve growth through exports. In the light of what I have just said, it is urgent for the international economic environment to be improved by designing a more open and transparent trading system. The system will have to protect and support the trading relationships of the third world countries with the industrialized countries and, moreover, make it possible for countries with weak economies to come away from the sidelines and be fully integrated into the world economy. My Government therefore wishes trade liberalization to lead to the establishment of principles of fair play that would impel the countries of the North to buy the South’s products at remunerative prices. Towards this end, it is our hope that the multilateral negotiations of the Uruguay Round will take into account the concerns of the third world. The debt problem remains a source of serious concern for the African States, which are already being sorely tried by the effects of the world economic crisis. Africa, which Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 29 is allocating more than half its income to servicing its debt, as required by the structural adjustment programmes, has been struggling for more than a decade now under an economic shock therapy that leaves it no chance of success. Unfortunately, the many initiatives that have been taken to promote our countries’ development have so far not had positive results, as most of them have been implemented only half-heartedly. This is particularly true of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and the Paris Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s. In view of these considerations, my delegation would like to recall that it is for the international community to adopt steps designed to alleviate the debt burden. These steps should include, inter alia, writing off debt for developing countries or, failing that, reducing it substantially, making repayment conditions more flexible, and setting up and paying into a diversification fund to transform the commodities sector and stimulate economic growth in Africa. There should also be a call for a considerable increase in official development assistance. As the 1980s were a lost decade for Africa, during the 1990s the industrialized countries should agree to an increase in financial flows to the poorer countries sufficient to support their activities and programmes for development, economic expansion and diversification, because it is a shame to see aid levels falling just when the African countries are making major efforts to promote democracy and manage their economies in a sound and rigorous manner. Of course, no one opts for democracy in the expectation of preferential treatment, but particular attention should be paid to our countries, which are already shaky as a result of the general crisis that is rocking the world. Although we should stick to the rules of good economic management, it would be a good thing if our countries, which are already in trouble, were not forced to submit to long-drawn-out economic therapies that are quite likely to kill their efforts to become more democratic. So, are we right to hope that the Tokyo Conference on African development, which is going on right now, will make it possible for us to drive it home to the major world political and economic players that there is a crying need to make a massive, collective effort for African recovery, because Africa’s economy has fallen into wrack and ruin? Forty-eight years after the Second World War, the world, which is still characterized by an attitude, on the part of the strong, of moral indifference and hardness of heart towards the weak, is still living in fear of what the next day will bring. However, despite the tough political, economic and social realities that all mankind is facing, we all do feel the commonality of our peoples’ destiny and, without a doubt, the relevance of the purpose and principles of our Organization. Thus, we must turn the upheavals since the end of the cold war to advantage by building a new world order based on collective security on three levels - the political, the economic and the humanitarian - so as to bring about better living conditions in greater liberty. Towards this end, the United Nations would gain by being reformed, made more democratic and revitalized in order to live up to its universal vocation and take up the many challenges that a changing world is imposing on it. Allow me to express my warmest congratulations to Ambassador Insanally, on his election as President of the General Assembly at its forty- eighth session. I should also like to welcome into our midst Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Monaco and Slovakia, whose recent admissions have brought the United Nations even closer to becoming truly universal. During the last year, the international community continued to face extremely grave challenges. This period has seen, along with certain positive achievements, more alarming failures and disappointments. The questions to which we have to respond take us back once again to the basic problem of multilateralism, that is to say, to defining in our complex world the values that can ensure a cohesion which is necessary for our common will to be translated into joint action. The fall of communist dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe and the end of super-Power confrontation have brought about an international political climate in which new approaches can be found in the maintenance of international peace and security and the resolution of global problems. They are based on greater opportunities for closer interaction and the participation of each and every United Nations Member State in managing and influencing the course of events. These opportunities and the ability of the international community to turn them into tangible results are manifest in the conflict-resolution processes in Central America and South-East Asia, in the resolute reversal of brutal aggression in the Gulf, in the fundamental transformation we are witnessing in South Africa and in the historic agreement in the Middle East. These evolutions clearly demonstrate that with political courage, far-sightedness and readiness for compromise, even the most intractable problems can be untangled and resolved. They show us an example that ought to be emulated in all regions of the world. The convulsions of the new era of world history are strongly felt in a country like Hungary which, as it has so often in its history, finds itself again close to conflict-ridden areas. Despite the difficulties that inevitably accompany the historic transition processes of the region, the Hungarian Government, ever since it took office in 1990, has been striving consistently and successfully to maintain the country’s internal stability and to ensure that it remains a mainstay of stability in our troubled region. Stability should be omnipresent and universal, and we have to find the appropriate ways and means to achieve it. As regards the old continent, Hungary wants to see democracy, prosperity, security and the institutions, such as the Council of Europe, the European Community and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) that lie at its foundation, gradually expand eastward. For some time now the world has been living in the shadow of events that ominously remind us of the darkest periods in the history of mankind. The conflict in the former Yugoslavia has been raging for more than two years. But most regrettably, not even the worst cases of disregard for the norms of international law and the principles enshrined in the Charter, not even the gravest crimes against humanity and the most brutal mass violations of fundamental human and minority rights, have proven to be sufficient to persuade the world, when there was still time, to counter aggression promptly and effectively, to prevent the acquisition of territory by use of force and to take a firm stand against the abhorrent policy of 'ethnic cleansing'. The end result of such policies of passivity, appeasement and complacency, of the striking lack of an ability to learn from past experiences and of the absence of the necessary political will to act, is well documented right here, in this building, in a shocking and soul-stirring photo exhibition about the horrors of war in the former Yugoslavia. It brings home a painful awareness of the practical consequences of unbridled extreme nationalism and the compelling message not to relax and relent in our national, regional and international efforts to uphold in an uncompromising manner the purposes and principles of the Charter. Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 19 The renewal of Central and Eastern Europe and the economic and social processes there have thrown to the surface tendencies of political and ethnic fundamentalism which, having been elevated to the level of official State policy, have unleashed or could lead to conflicts threatening the security of the whole of Europe. In our interdependent world, every nation on Earth, irrespective of where it is situated, should realize the danger of this venomous contagion if it were allowed to spread across our planet. The people and the Government of Hungary continue to follow the developments of the crisis in the former Yugoslavia with utmost concern. As a country immediately adjacent to the crisis area, Hungary has sought to avoid being dragged into this conflict, while continuing at the same time to voice its principled position on the crisis and abiding by the relevant decisions of the international community. One has to reckon with the fact that this crisis is not limited to the war-torn areas of Bosnia and Croatia. It festers in Serbia proper, where there is growing pressure on the different ethnic communities inhabiting the country, including the Hungarian community in Vojvodina. In this formerly autonomous province, the successive waves of intimidation and discrimination have already significantly reduced both the size and the proportion of the Hungarian minority. There continues to be a constant threat of a further massive influx of refugees into Hungary, I am afraid. In the conditions prevailing in Serbia and Montenegro, just as in other parts of the former Yugoslavia, it is of utmost importance to seek adequate international protection for these ethnic communities and national minorities. Indeed, one of the key issues in settling the crisis is to ensure their rights without any discrimination, whether they have majority or minority status, with the same norms and standards applying to each and every one of them. Because of its geographical situation, Hungary finds itself confronted with special economic problems arising from the implementation of sanctions imposed by the Security Council against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Our economic and financial losses directly attributable to the effects of implementing the sanctions are constantly growing, and have now reached $1 billion. We highly appreciate the steps taken so far by the Security Council vis-à-vis those countries that have suffered economic losses and have made use of their right to consult the Security Council under Article 50 of the Charter. We trust that the international organizations and institutions concerned will find early solutions to help alleviate those pressing problems. It is clear from the experience gained in connection with the various sanctions regimes in place that attention from the international community commensurate with the scale of the problems caused to third countries is required in order to examine how best we can establish an effective mechanism for the implementation of Article 50. Without such a mechanism, the burden placed on an ever-growing number of countries fulfilling their international obligations will remain disproportionately and unjustly heavy. In this connection, it is totally unacceptable to take retaliatory measures in response to actions by any State in fulfilment of its obligations under the Charter. Therefore, illegal measures such as attempts to block free and safe navigation on the Danube river, which is an international waterway vital for many countries of Europe, warrant international action, and the States concerned rightly expect the international organizations to provide effective assistance in this matter. In the light of recent bitter experiences, we have become more acutely aware that the world cannot be made a safer place unless there are international organizations able and willing to take resolute and timely action. Multilateral diplomacy must be at its best if it is to offer remedies where other possibilities for preventing or settling conflicts have been exhausted. We consider it especially important that the various tools of preventive diplomacy and crisis management should be constantly at the disposal of the international community. Hungary is highly interested in the ongoing work aimed at a comprehensive review and enhancement of the United Nations peace-keeping, peacemaking and peace- building activities. Many substantive proposals have been made and useful observations put forward in this regard. We hope that they will assist in our endeavours to carry out genuine and purpose-oriented reform measures in the world Organization. We expect that the present session of the General Assembly will move us ahead in the debate on how to bring certain provisions of the Charter into line with the changing realities of our world. Conditions seem ripe today for giving most serious consideration to questions relating to the review of the Charter. The fundamental aim of such a review is to make the United Nations function better. At the same time, it should in no way undermine the effectiveness of the decision-making processes at the United Nations. In this context, Hungary fully understands the pressing financial situation of the world Organization and, as its contribution to redressing this state of affairs, has, as of this year, eliminated all its arrears to the regular budget. 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session In our view, there are, inter alia, two particular areas where a review of the provisions of the Charter is needed. First, there is a long-overdue need for a review of those Charter provisions that imply a distinction between United Nations Member States on the basis of their status of signatory or enemy State. On the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the birth of the United Nations, the elimination of this obsolete distinction would be more than a gesture towards a number of countries that have, over the years, fully proved their commitment to the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter. Secondly, the role played in today’s world politics by some States and their contribution to the realization of the purposes and principles of the Charter justify their more intimate involvement in the maintenance of international peace and security. We are aware that the issue of the enlargement of the permanent membership of the Security Council will be the subject of further discussions. However, we believe that two countries - Germany and Japan - already qualify to play the enhanced role that would stem from permanent membership in the Security Council. My Government continues to believe that the United Nations provides a most fitting framework for translating into reality our global responsibility for the international protection of human rights. It is our deep conviction that the Security Council should pay appropriate attention, and act resolutely and promptly, as part of its preventive actions, to mass infringements of human and minority rights, since they constitute threats to regional and international peace and security. We should pursue an effective integration of human rights elements into the workings of the whole United Nations system. Hungary supports the early establishment of a post of high commissioner for human rights. An appropriate mandate from this session of the General Assembly could ensure, through this new institution, an adequate presence for human rights elements, particularly in the various fields of early warning, conflict management, peace-keeping and peace-making, electoral assistance and post-conflict peace-building. The high commissioner could make the human rights activities of the United Nations more transparent to world public opinion. We intend to lend our full support to a mandate for the high commissioner that would also cover the protection and promotion of minority rights. In our view, the high commissioner could also play a major role in raising public awareness of the positive models of multinational coexistence and minority protection systems that are functioning well in various democratic countries of the world. Here I can refer to the previous speaker, whose country, I believe, is a good example of this. We believe that this task is of major importance and has never been higher on the agenda than it is today. The application or adaptation of these successful solutions to the specific circumstances prevailing in other parts of the world could greatly contribute to a more satisfactory human rights situation in our world at the end of this turbulent century. I have obviously not exhausted all the problems besetting the world. Our Governments today have an enormous responsibility to find answers to the new challenges. If we fail to act now, we risk losing all the achievements won with the ending of the cold war. It gives me great pleasure to congratulate Ambassador Insanally on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. His election to this important post is, beyond a doubt, a testimony to his personal credentials and the important role being played by his country in international affairs. I should also like to commend the work of his predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, who demonstrated outstanding skills of diplomacy, and dedication. It is also my pleasant duty to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his untiring efforts in promoting international peace and security. I should also like to extend a warm welcome to the six new States, Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, Monaco, the Slovak Republic and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia that have joined us during the past year. I am confident that their participation and contribution will further enrich the work of the Organization. Along with the end of the cold war came promises: promises of a better future, without the threat of nuclear holocaust, where scarce resources would not be spent on building up military might, where millions of starving would be fed and provided with their basic health care needs, safe drinking water and a basic level of education, where a safe and clean environment would be provided along with the right to sustainable development, and where the dignity of the human being would be respected. This is the vision that gave rise to this Organization in 1945. We have rededicated ourselves to this vision with renewed vigour following the demise of the cold war. The 30 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session moral authority of the United Nations has been reasserted over military might. A number of protracted conflicts have shown signs of movement towards resolution. International cooperation in addressing global issues such as environment, disarmament, international peace and security and human rights have reached new heights. As a consequence, the United Nations has gained new respect and been entrusted with new responsibilities. In order to live up to the heightened expectations, the Organization must continue to receive the unwavering commitment of its Member States. The Republic of Maldives would like to take this opportunity to renew its commitment to the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. These changes in the work of the United Nations reflect corresponding changes in the political, economic, and security landscape that underpins efforts in international cooperation today. In view of this reality, the Security Council of the United Nations needs to be reformed and restructured. We should be careful not to take a piecemeal approach to this: any expansion of the Council, and the status of the members, should be based on the principles of equitable and balanced representation. We should formulate principled criteria that reflect the political, economic and demographic realities of the world today. The events in Bosnia and Herzegovina have shamed us all. A State Member of the United Nations has been subjected to naked aggression. The entire population of a small country is being progressively exterminated. It is deliberate genocide. We need to examine why the international community has failed to stop the carnage that is taking place in that country. Regional, international and direct diplomacy have been applied, but to no avail. At a time when the world community has rededicated itself to the sanctity of human rights, it is a tragic shame that systematic violation of these rights has gone unpunished owing to lack of will on the part of the international community. We condemn the continued violence and genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina and call upon the international community to take more decisive steps so that the responsibilities entrusted to us under the Charter of this Organization may be discharged fully. We fully recognize the inherent right to self-defence, as prescribed in the Charter. We believe that the right to self-defence comprises the most fundamental right - the right to life. A permanent solution to the situation in Bosnia should be found by peaceful means and within the parameters of the Charter of the United Nations, one of which is the principle of territorial integrity. The continued violations of basic human rights that are taking place in Angola and Somalia are a matter of serious concern to us. The events in Somalia - especially the attacks on the United Nations peace-keeping personnel - are grave developments that threaten the working of this Organization. United Nations involvement in Somalia now raises several questions, including those concerning the sincerity of the warring parties with regard to their acceptance of help from the international community to overcome the extreme poverty that has ravaged the entire country. Today, the United Nations is learning a lesson that is very expensive, in terms of both human life and financial resources, as it provides humanitarian assistance and seeks to protect the people of these countries. It is indeed ironic and tragic that peace- keepers have themselves become targets of violence. My Government condemns such violence in the strongest possible terms and believes that those responsible for such acts should be brought to justice. These experiences demonstrate that if the parties involved are not sincere in the efforts to find a peaceful solution and to avoid violence, the United Nations, acting on its own, will be unable to perform miracles. Developments taking place in South Africa have been encouraging. The very active and high-level role currently being played by the United Nations in facilitating the cessation of political violence and the promotion of negotiations to establish a democratic and non-racial State in South Africa is commendable. My Government also commends the African National Congress (ANC) and the Government of South Africa for their positive attitude towards working out the details of the multi-party elections. In this connection, the recent agreement to set up a multi-party Transitional Executive Council is a welcome development. We feel that the end of the era of apartheid, which is an affront to human dignity, is imminent. In this context, we urge all parties concerned to refrain from violence and actions that would subvert the peace process. It is our hope that when we meet here in New York next year we shall have amongst us the true representatives of the South African people and that this Organization will be able to benefit from their experience and knowledge. Forty-eighth session - 4 October l993 31 The Arab-Israeli peace talks that began in 1991 have made remarkable progress. The signing of the declarations of principles by the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel in Washington last month was an historic event. In this context, I should like to express to the PLO and the people of Palestine our admiration for their courage and their determination to find a comprehensive and peaceful solution to the question of Palestine. The Maldives pays tribute also to the Government of the United States of America and other Governments involved for the important role they are playing in the Middle East peace talks. It is our earnest hope that this agreement will lead to the restoration of the inalienable right of the Palestine people to self-determination, sovereign independence and the establishment of a national homeland on their own soil. The tragic consequences of the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait are still a matter of serious concern to the international community. All outstanding issues, such as the border dispute and the release of Kuwaiti and third-country prisoners still being held in Iraqi jails, should be settled immediately. The resolution of these issues, in conformity with international law and practice, will contribute to the elimination of tension and to the restoration of security and stability in the region. In this regard, the Government of Maldives welcomes the completion of the work of the Iraq-Kuwait Boundary Demarcation Commission and the endorsement of the report of this Commission by the Security Council. We also feel that Kuwait’s acceptance of the Commission’s report is a very positive step indicative of that country’s eagerness and sincerity in its attitude towards a comprehensive solution. The Government of Maldives urges Iraq to adopt an equally positive attitude in the interests of peace, security and stability. In June this year the international community came together at the second World Conference on Human Rights to review and assess progress and setbacks in the area of human rights since the adoption of the Universal Declaration in 1948. I am happy that we were able to make considerable progress in several key areas. We believe that some of the achievements of this Conference will give new impetus to the promotion of human rights throughout the world. However, we all need to be very realistic in addressing this very important issue. The international community should not let the promotion of human rights be used by a few as an excuse for imposing uniformity in human behaviour and thinking, at the expense of diversity. Rather, it should emphasize the significance of the universality of human rights. We know only too well the fate of societies that try to impose uniform thinking and behaviour on their peoples. Differences between individuals and societies should be valued. Such diversity enriches our family of nations. The Government of Maldives has always attached great importance to disarmament and international peace and security. It is our firm belief that the production and stockpiling of armaments will only worsen the security of the entire world. In this regard, Maldives calls upon the international community not to lose the current momentum towards disarmament. We therefore urge the parties involved to continue to build upon past achievements, particularly in the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, the control of proliferation, the achievement of greater transparency in armaments and the negotiation of other confidence-building measures. Early this year, Maldives acceded to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on Their Destruction, and, today, on behalf of the Government of Maldives, I have signed the Convention. Maldives is not involved in the production and stockpiling of such weapons. My Government’s accession and signature therefore demonstrate our commitment to supporting all international efforts to eradicate such weaponry. The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty was one of the first international Treaties to which my country became a party after gaining its independence in 1965. Our commitment to this Treaty is unwavering because we fully realize the consequences of the proliferation of such weapons of mass destruction. My Government supports the indefinite extension of the Treaty beyond 1995. We believe that, within its framework, progress could be made in the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones and zones of peace, for which my Government reiterates its full support. We feel that the establishment of such zones will further contribute to the promotion of international peace and security. I also wish to express my Government’s unqualified support for the total eradication of all weapons of mass destruction, be it chemical, biological or nuclear, and to reiterate our call for the conclusion of effective agreements on a comprehensive ban on nuclear testing. In this connection, the Government of Maldives commends the United States for its unilateral decision to extend its moratorium on nuclear testing until the end of 1994. 32 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The Charter of the United Nations recognizes the inherent rights of all States to self-defence. However, only a privileged few possess the ability to provide for their own security unilaterally. Small States which lack adequate financial resources for the acquisition of military equipment and face severe constraints in manpower are never in a position to provide suitably for their own security. Any attempt by small States to build their military capabilities up to a level of even near self-reliance would be a mere waste of resources. The United Nations remains the only guarantor of security for the small States. In the economic sphere, the world economy once again failed to meet the expected rate of growth. It continues to be characterized by deteriorating terms of trade for the developing countries and rising protectionism in developed countries. For decades the developing countries have sought a new world economic order that would eliminate the imbalances existing in the present system. However, little has been accomplished towards the attainment of this goal. The scientific and technological gap between the developing and the developed countries is becoming ever wider. The flow of official development assistance has declined as a result of the slow growth in the economies of the donor countries. The global arrangements and institutions established to manage economic relations between States have not been able to lift the world from its present depression. This failure has serious implications for the developing countries. In order to avoid disastrous consequences, we call for an early conclusion of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) that will set the tone for a future based on an open- trading system. The North-South dialogue must be reactivated on a new basis comprising common interests and benefits and shared responsibilities. Similarly, South-South cooperation must be intensified, allowing States to pool their resources and pursue concrete development efforts within the framework of collective self-reliance and continued support for open trading systems. The world cannot rise out of its economic disarray and be assured of stability until the North and the South can together work out a system that encourages closer economic relations and strengthens the North-South exchange. One particular concept that needs emphasis is the inseparability of development from the equitable sharing of its fruits and its responsibilities. This twofold aspect of development must be pursued at one and the same time and with equal intensity if development is to succeed. In this regard, let me reiterate my Government’s firm belief that sustainable development is the only way to guarantee continued life on this planet Earth. We need to accelerate our efforts to meet the commitments we made in Rio last year. We call on all States urgently to ratify the climate Convention and the bio-diversity Convention. My Government is proud to announce that it was one of the first to ratify both these Conventions. The establishment of the Commission on Sustainable Development is a welcome development. We commend the Commission for the very productive work accomplished at its first substantive session and hope that its future work will be of the same high standard. The preparatory work for the Global Conference for Small Island States on Sustainable Development and its Implications began during this year. My country, as a small island State, regards this Conference as a very important step in addressing and finding practical solutions to the unique problems facing us in our developmental efforts. We hope that the international community will continue to participate constructively in the preparatory process and will participate in the Conference itself. The responsibility that has been thrust upon us today is tremendous. The realization of the dreams of our peoples are in our hands. We cannot afford to be blind to the desires of our peoples to be better fed, to have safer drinking water, to have access to education and health-care needs and to be free from the prospect of nuclear holocaust and the dangers of environmental degradation. We cannot afford to be embroiled in the build-up of stockpiles of armaments and weapons of mass destruction while our economies are the main victims of these acquisitions for death and destruction. We should rise above all this and become more human in all our endeavours. I have no doubt that together we can actually achieve the better future that has been promised to us. In 1965 three of the Caribbean’s most outstanding statesmen created an institution to foster cooperation and to quicken the pace of their countries’ development. Errol Barrow of Barbados, Forbes Burnham of Guyana and V.C. Bird of Antigua and Barbuda met at Dickenson Bay, Antigua. There, they signed a historic document creating the Caribbean Free Trade Association (CARIFTA). Although the three countries they led were not yet sovereign States, those enlightened statesmen envisioned the emergence of an independent, English-speaking Caribbean capable of playing a meaningful role in international affairs. The entire Caribbean, beginning in 1492 and continuing throughout its modern history, had been an object of international intrigue and international competition. How fitting, then, for that region to help shape world history once it had taken hold of its own ambitions and aspirations. In 1973, CARIFTA was transformed into a more extensive institution called the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). Today, exactly 20 years after its establishment, all citizens of the 13 countries of CARICOM, whether living in the Caribbean or in the diaspora, celebrate this historic moment when a most able son of Guyana is elected to preside over the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Your brilliant academic career, your outstanding diplomatic skills and your warm, personable style of leadership assured your unanimous election. Antiguans and Barbudans rejoice with you and your country, and my delegation pledges its fullest support and cooperation. My delegation is appreciative of the role played by the non-English-speaking countries that are members of the Latin American and Caribbean Group of States, whose full support was necessary to achieve this noble objective. The 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session 33 States of the region have quietly made tremendous progress, in this and other forums, in strengthening the bonds of cooperation and friendship that bind us. And though we are divided on a single but important trade issue, we expect that an amicable solution will shortly be found to the satisfaction of both sides. During the past year, our regional group of States worked together to find a solution to the Haitian crisis. The delegations of Brazil and Venezuela, regional members of the Security Council, made every attempt to include the entire region in the Council’s decision-making process as it pertained to Haiti, another regional member. The United States must also be congratulated in that regard. The peoples of Latin America and the Caribbean now eagerly await the return of President Aristide to Haiti on 30 October three weeks from today, when history will reverse itself. Despite the violence and the dilatory tactics employed by the military leaders in Haiti, Antigua and Barbuda is confident that the forces of good will, decency and democracy will prevail. I wish to point out that no previous Security Council embargo intended to compel compliance with the will of the international community was ever as swiftly effective as was the embargo imposed on the illegitimate regime in Haiti. My delegation regards this episode as a turning-point in the history of Security Council actions to safeguard international peace and security. Threats to international peace and security, up until the Security Council action on Haiti, have been narrowly defined as the use of force by one sovereign State against another, or some form of violent confrontation between or among States. A small State like mine, incapable of waging war and no longer an object of conquest, defines international peace and security more broadly. Grinding poverty and the resultant ecological disaster which characterize Haiti are threats to the peace and security of that sovereign State and its neighbours. Not force, not violent threats, but poverty and its attendant consequences threaten international peace and security. Antigua and Barbuda, a small island State and an ally of democracy and legitimacy in the Americas and certainly in this forum, takes great pride in knowing that all of CARICOM pressed this cause here at the United Nations and elsewhere and that Haiti can count on us never to relent. Antigua and Barbuda will never relent in its struggle against illegal drug trafficking, either. Located between the suppliers of the South and the markets of the North, we have been thrust by geography into the battle against this scourge. We pledge our slender resources in the global struggle against this global enemy. Apartheid, another global enemy, is in its death throes. My small country takes pride in knowing that our voice has helped to topple that evil system in South Africa. From the moment of our independence 12 years ago, in 1981, my small country has supported the legitimate aspirations of oppressed peoples everywhere, but especially those of the majority population in South Africa. In April of next year, when democratic elections are held to choose a representative government in South Africa, Antigua and Barbuda will also be able to celebrate a victory of right over wrong, of democratic ideals over dictatorship, of good over evil. The international community must begin preparing to come to the assistance of an anaemic South Africa whose need for economic good health in a post-apartheid world is even now apparent. In April of next year, as apartheid suffers its final defeat, the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States will convene in Barbados. This Conference is the first test of the will of the international community since the Earth Summit convened in Rio last June. You will recall, Mr. President, that the most significant conclusion of last year’s Earth Summit was the determination that industrial civilization is fundamentally flawed. Development based on the current model of consumption, distribution and disposal practised by the developed world is unsustainable. Abundant quantities of harmful gases and toxins, emitted into the atmosphere, are altering our global environment, and fatal consequences have been forecast for the Earth’s climate, its biodiverse flora and fauna, its agriculture, all living animals and human health and well-being. It should be borne in mind that while the contribution by small island States to climate change, global warming and sea-level rise is zero, the effects of climate change, global warming and sea-level rise will reduce small island States like mine to zero. Our very existence is at stake; our peace and security are threatened by the actions of large and wealthy States whose presumptions about the Earth’s resources need to be completely revised. The Barbados Conference will articulate a programme of action intended to eliminate these man-induced, looming catastrophes and to achieve sustainable development beginning in small island States. The international Forty-eighth session - 8 October l993 13 community’s support and good will are required if sustainable development is to be made real and disaster is to be prevented. Small island States are the foot-soldiers in this battle to save the planet. We will be the first casualties but we will not be the last if drastic changes are not quickly brought about in the developed world. On Earth’s last uninhabited continent, disaster can also be avoided. Antarctica, a pristine and icy wilderness whose waters abound with the most significant link in the oceans’ food chain, whose winds control the earth’s weather systems, whose tundras conceal the secrets of the Earth’s past, and whose icebergs determine sea-levels world wide, must never become the possession of large States alone. Antigua and Barbuda will never acknowledge sovereignty over Antarctica by any State. In fact, working alongside like-minded delegations, we will continue to press for a mining and oil exploration ban in perpetuity, certain that any other arrangement will lead to a precipitation of ecological decline worldwide, to the detriment of small island States among others. In our view, Antarctica must be declared a world park, control over which should be exercised by our world body. The world’s many peoples must learn to live in harmony with the Earth’s environment and peaceably among ourselves. Ethnic strife and wars have taken more lives in the last year than comprise the entire population of my country and several other CARICOM States combined. All multiracial and multi-ethnic societies must learn to settle historic and current rivalries peacefully; when they fail to do so, resources which could well be spent on development are necessarily diverted to peace-keeping. The peace-keeping missions now undertaken by the United Nations cost more than $3.5 billion annually; as a consequence, development assistance is severely restricted. Peaceful States like mine therefore have an economic interest in seeing a decline in the need for peace-keeping. Sadly, it is anticipated that more civil strife and many more ethnic and religious conflicts will occur in the near future and that the United Nations will be called on to help. My delegation therefore applauds Liechtenstein for the role it has decided to play in this forum. That small European State is attempting to find a structured solution to the unyielding demand by rival groups within States for a measure of self-determination. The size of a country bears no relation to the intellectual capacity of its statesmen or to its capacity for generating great ideas. Antigua and Barbuda will work alongside this small State in promoting a permanent solution to destructive ethnic conflicts within States. The world’s indigenous peoples must also find permanent protection, and the injustices they have long endured must also quickly cease. Towards that end, our United Nations declared 1993 the International Year of the World’s Indigenous People. It is not yet clear just how much impact the declaration has had; a fund has been established in the Americas to support the indigenous peoples of my region, and Brazil and Venezuela have shown courage in their support for the Yanomami, an Amazonian forest people. Antigua and Barbuda also supports the establishment of an annual International Day of the World’s Indigenous People. Having lost the indigenous Arawaks and Caribs of Antigua and Barbuda, beginning in 1492, my country is duty-bound to ensure that powerless indigenous people the world over, who have inhabited the lands of their ancestors for many generations, are adequately remembered and protected by our United Nations. The people of Antigua and Barbuda condemn the perpetrators of the fierce conflict which continues to rage in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we deplore the attacks on United Nations peace-keepers in Somalia as much as we abhor the destructive campaign waged by mercenaries in Angola. The civil wars in Liberia and Mozambique are brutish and unyielding, and the civil strife which has erupted in Georgia will likely match both in ferocity and destructiveness. In the Middle East, the slow trickle of peace has turned into a gushing stream with many tributaries. It is our hope that the Israelis and until the Palestinians will be able to find the source of a lasting flow of peace. Until Israel is allowed to exist within secure borders and until the Palestinians achieve a sovereign State of their own, peace in that region may slowly evaporate. We rejoice at the wave of peace which has engulfed Lebanon. Its very industrious citizens, flung far and wide by a conflict that seemed unending, can now give back to their homeland some of the talent and wealth which their rich culture bestowed upon them. Lebanon can surely count on its prodigious sons and daughters in the diaspora for every assistance; their generosity is as legendary as their love for their old country. We welcome the finalization of the demarcation of the boundary between Kuwait and Iraq which was accomplished 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session by the Iraq-Kuwait Boundary Commission in May 1993. We also welcome the adoption by the Security Council of resolution 833 (1993) in which it guaranteed the inviolability of the boundary between the two States. This guarantee shall serve as a deterrent against future conflict between these two neighbours while enhancing stability and security in the region. My people celebrate with the countries of the Central American region as peace rains down upon them. If future civil wars are to be prevented, however, the economic systems which prevail in Central America must become far more inclusive. In distributing wealth, methods must be found to direct more than a trickle towards the poor. We note that the impoverishment of Cuba’s people is due overwhelmingly to exogenous circumstances, and so our sympathies lie with the people of this sister Caribbean State. In the early decades of this century, Cubans welcomed poor workers from neighbouring Antigua to their shores. Today, standing in solidarity with the Cuban people, Antiguans and Barbudans seek a speedy end to their suffering. I would be remiss in my duty, as I conclude, if I did not convey to the outgoing President, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, the gratitude of my delegation for the important role he played during the preceding session of the General Assembly. It was under his watch that six new Members joined our Organization. I welcome to membership the Czech Republic, the Republic of Slovakia, Eritrea, Monaco, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Andorra. Their presence greatly enhances our institution’s legitimate claim of universality, as membership climbs to 184. In that regard, my delegation would note that Antigua and Barbuda supports a manageable enlargement of the Security Council to reflect the new realities. However, our delegation will not join any consensus on enlargement if the qualifying criteria for new membership implicitly require a certain level of wealth and/or a certain population size. Although we harbour no ambitions to sit on the Security Council, my small country cannot agree to be excluded from the Council in perpetuity. Such exclusion would make us less sovereign than larger States. The moral conscience of our institution can best be articulated frequently by small States with no material interest in the outcome of disputes. But even more important is the fact that our own survival requires us to contribute to the construction of a new world order that will have its basis in Security Council decision-making. We wish merely to retain our option, for we know not what future generations will encounter. My delegation concludes by recalling that on 31 March 1918 - 75 years ago - another generation of Antiguans and Barbudans challenged an unconscionable system of exploitation that left us materially impoverished. Our grandmothers and grandfathers, then youthful and vigorous, were determined to fashion for themselves and their progeny a future that would be superior to their own inheritance. In 1918, brutality was the response to their legitimate cry for workers’ rights. Twenty years later - in 1938 - a sympathetic Commission was to determine that the deplorable conditions then extant in my country required massive infusions of public finance and good will in order to achieve a marked turn-around. When, in 1943 - 50 years ago, and 25 years after the 1918 revolt - a nationalist named V. C. Bird picked up the mantle of leadership of the workers’ organization, my small country began its metamorphosis in earnest. Seventy-five years after March 1918, the Antigua and Barbuda that has evolved bears no resemblance to the Antigua and Barbuda that history left behind. When V. C. Bird and his trade-union colleagues quickened our stride towards freedom and an improved material condition, beginning in 1943, they had a vision of an Antigua and Barbuda which, 50 years later, has become virtual reality. As V. C. Bird and his generation pass the mantle of leadership to their successor generation, our old men have visions, and our young women have dreams. Antiguans and Barbudans are aware that there are detractors abroad who may wish to see our freedom snatched from us. We have paid a price for our freedom, which we will for ever defend. And we are aware of the role played by the United Nations and international law in safeguarding the sovereignty of small States. We shall therefore for ever remain wedded to multilateral institutions like the Caribbean Community, the Organization of East Caribbean States, the Organization of American States, the Commonwealth and this body - the United Nations - which, together, strengthen our sovereignty. Multilateralism is the greatest ally of our freedom, and the United Nations the greatest guarantor. As Antiguans and Barbudans recall the courage of the heroes of 1918, we pledge never again - never again - to allow injustice and brute force to raise their ugly heads in our beautiful, beloved Antigua and Barbuda. My generation will continue to do all that is necessary to bequeath to future generations a peaceful legacy, where justice rules, ignorance is banished, and legitimate leadership springs from the people’s choice. That is our pledge. Permit me, Sir, on behalf of the Government and people of Barbados, to express our profound appreciation of the high honour which the international community has done to our region by your unanimous election to the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. As I join all those who have offered you congratulations from this rostrum, I feel bound to note with pride the considerable diplomatic skill, experience and commitment which you bring to the Chair and which allow my delegation the confidence to anticipate a most successful and satisfactory session. May I also commend your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for having safely guided us through the demanding deliberations of the forty-seventh session. We particularly thank the Secretary-General for his valiant efforts to secure international peace and security. Barbados welcomes Andorra, Eritrea, the Czech Republic, Monaco, Macedonia and Slovakia to membership of this great Organization, which we are sure will benefit from their participation. It augurs well for the outcome of this session of the General Assembly that it has started against a backdrop of some success - however tenuous - in Haiti, in South Africa and in the Middle East. The cases of the Middle East and South Africa, especially, represent triumphs of diplomacy and patient negotiation. In this regard, no praise is too high for Norway’s outstanding contribution in guiding seemingly intractable enemies along the difficult and daring path towards peace. As we in Barbados laud such a remarkable achievement, we hope fervently that it will lead soon to the long-sought goals of an Israel within secure boundaries and a homeland for the Palestinian people, goals envisaged in Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). We dare to hope, too, that that reality, once achieved, will lead to a lasting peace in the region. In South Africa, despite the carefully orchestrated campaign of violence and terrorism aimed at subverting every effort to create a non-racial, democratic South Africa, President de Klerk African National Congress President, 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Nelson Mandela have, with truly remarkable courage and foresight, brought their country to the point where the transition to democracy has now been enshrined in the laws of South Africa. Barbados rejoices that a date has been fixed for the holding of universal elections, and we welcome the establishment of the Transitional Executive Council to prepare for those elections. In praising those two leaders, we must not overlook the significant contributions of the President of the Pan- Africanist Congress, Mr. Clarence Makwetu, and the many patriots on all sides, present and past, who have made and continue to make their various contributions, sometimes even to the extent of the supreme sacrifice. The encouraging progress in South Africa demands and deserves, no less than the process in the Middle East, the wholehearted support of the international community. The issue of Haiti is a matter of extreme importance to the peace and security of the people of the Caribbean. You are well aware, Sir, that the Heads of Government of the Caribbean Community were long convinced that the unfortunate and unacceptable state of affairs resulting from the overthrow of the elected President of Haiti could be resolved only through the intervention of the Security Council, the valiant efforts of the Organization of American States notwithstanding. The fact that the Governors Island Agreement was signed so soon after the adoption of Security Council resolution 841 (1993) would seem to justify our consistent position. Today we continue to be apprehensive over the level and nature of the widespread turmoil in Port-au-Prince, turmoil which seems designed to delay, if not derail, the return of President Aristide to his rightful place. The international community in general, and the Security Council in particular, must not sit idly by, merely expressing regret at the sorry state of affairs in that unhappy country. The Security Council - indeed, all of our countries - must be prepared to take whatever action is necessary to ensure that the murders and assassinations cease. All parties must be made to honour the Governors Island Agreement and the results of the 1991 elections. There is another issue which the people of the Caribbean have contemplated with more or less trepidation during the past 34 years. And although none of them might have an immediate solution to offer, many believe that nothing would bring more joy to the people of the region than the announcement of an impending rapprochement between the Republic of Cuba and our great neighbour to the north. In the light of recent international events, Barbados refuses to believe that only between these two countries can no path to a peaceful resolution of their conflict be found. Four years ago in Barbados we celebrated the 350th anniversary of parliamentary practice. And it is in that context that we applaud the United Nations for its role in the conduct of successful elections in Angola and Cambodia. While we are pleased at the post-election progress being made in Cambodia, we are concerned about the deterioration in Angola. We urge the international community to be more vigilant in monitoring events in Angola. The comity of nations has a duty to ensure that the results of free and fair elections are accepted and respected by all parties - in Haiti, in Angola, in Cambodia or wherever else there is involvement by the United Nations in any such process. No party anywhere should ever be allowed even to think that the international community would tolerate the frustration of properly conducted election exercises. Barbados remains convinced that the international community must adopt an integrated approach to peace, an approach which concentrates on building and preserving peace rather than on mere peace-keeping. Barbados therefore appreciates the attention currently being paid by this Organization to international security and peace-keeping. Indeed, we welcome the recent adoption of General Assembly resolution 47/120, endorsing the Secretary- General’s 'Agenda for Peace'. We recognize that, in the search for consensus, the interests of all parties have not been fully addressed, but we consider that the reforms recommended represent a useful first step towards the enhanced role the United Nations is called upon to play in the promotion of international peace and security. International peace and security can hardly be attained if the global environment continues to be sullied by rampant human rights abuses. Barbados welcomes the advances contained in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action of the World Conference on Human Rights, particularly the re-emphasis of the universality of human rights and the right to development as a human right. However, we must here reiterate that the widespread resurgence of racism, xenophobia, religious intolerance, ethnic conflicts and various other forms of human rights abuses pose a most serious threat to the peace and security of all of us. The proposal to create a post of high commissioner for human rights was such a contentious issue at the World Conference for Human Rights that it has been referred to this session for action. Barbados considers that before such a post is established the following considerations should be taken into account. First, the mandate of the high Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 11 commissioner should be satisfactorily defined. Secondly, there should be adequate safeguards to ensure the commissioner’s independence and neutrality. Thirdly, the office of the high commissioner should not be manipulated to achieve the political ends of any State. Fourthly, the high commissioner should be empowered to investigate alleged human rights abuses across all borders, and not on a selective basis. Barbados believes that preventive measures taken to guarantee international peace and security must also include efforts to safeguard basic social and economic rights. However, we are equally convinced that not enough is being done to address development problems. We concur in the Secretary-General’s view that respect for human rights, the rule of law and democracy cannot survive outside a framework of adequate development. Where access to food, clothing, shelter, education, health and the opportunity for gainful employment is denied, democracy cannot flourish. In spite of 50 years of unprecedented technological progress, in many parts of the world abject poverty still persists. An estimated 1.1 billion persons, or one-fifth of humankind, are unable to afford even minimally acceptable levels of food and shelter. This problem, though concentrated largely within the developing world, has transcended national boundaries and now affects persons in the developing and developed countries alike. Low commodity prices, lack of investment capital, the inability to secure access to world markets, and high unemployment and low productivity have contributed to the marginalization of millions of unfortunate persons. Particularly hard hit are our young people, among whom disillusionment and despair have already begun to take their toll, driving a growing number of them to resort to various forms of anti-social behaviour, including drug trafficking and drug abuse. This desperate situation will not disappear because of speeches denouncing poverty, or the adoption of resolutions calling for its elimination. Rather, we must urgently adopt radical measures designed to attack and eliminate the conditions which fuel the growing and unacceptable levels of poverty in our societies. Barbados considers that social development will be among the greatest challenges facing the United Nations in the twenty-first century. We therefore regard the convocation of the World Summit on Social Development, scheduled for Copenhagen in 1995, as a clear signal that social development has become a priority issue on the world agenda. Barbados believes that that Summit will provide the international community with an opportunity to direct attention to the acute problems relating to development. Our conviction is that the focus of the development debate must be shifted to human development and that bold initiatives must be taken to combat poverty and to lighten the burden which structural adjustment places on the most vulnerable in our societies - our women and our children. Barbados is heartened by the Secretary-General’s 'agenda for development' proposal and looks forward with interest to reviewing the report requested in General Assembly resolution 47/181. We also welcome the timely initiative taken by the Government of Papua New Guinea, an initiative in which I understand you yourself, Mr. President, have no small interest. My delegation hopes that this matter will be given the serious and urgent consideration it merits. Among the deterrents to development, drug trafficking remains one source of grave concern to the Governments of the Caribbean. Apart from the tragic consequences that drug addiction has for the health of our people, illegal drugs constitute the single most pervasive ingredient of increased crime in our societies. In Barbados, for example, the majority of criminal cases brought before the courts involve directly or indirectly some linkage to drugs. Penal and health systems are being stretched to their limits, while the financial implications of enforcement and rehabilitation are staggering. Not even developed countries have yet been able to eradicate from their societies drug abuse and its mirror-image, drug trafficking. Developing countries are still further disadvantaged by their chronic inability to take on the powerful drug cartels and the narco-terrorists with any hope of real success. The problem is transnational in scope. It is therefore imperative that the Global Programme of Action adopted at the 1990 special session on drugs be implemented as soon as possible and that cooperation at the bilateral, regional and multilateral levels be enhanced. The role of the United Nations Drug Control Programme is vital to this process. Barbados looks forward to the four high-level special plenary meetings scheduled to take place during this session. We expect that further measures to combat the universal scourge of drug abuse will emerge, along with the provision of the adequate funding necessary to achieve these ends. It has been a year now since the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development was convened in Rio de Janeiro. Since that time, other matters - primarily matters of peace and security - have helped to push environment and development issues out of the limelight. The meeting of the Commission on Sustainable Development, charged with the responsibility of monitoring the implementation of Agenda 21, served to remind us that 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session sustainable development must continue to receive serious attention from the international community. The Commission succeeded in generating the necessary political will to impart a powerful impetus to national action for the implementation of Agenda 21. We can ill afford any loss in momentum. This brings me to the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, which the Government of Barbados has offered to host. The Conference will take place in Barbados from 25 April to 6 May 1994. The Government and people of Barbados are honoured that the international community has, in accepting our offer, placed its confidence in our capacity to host successfully a conference of this size and importance. The Conference will be the first of the follow-up activities of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) to be completed. It presents an early opportunity for the implementation of the commitments reached at the Rio Earth Summit. As such, the Conference also represents a test of the political will of the international community to match the solemn commitments of Agenda 21 with real action towards more sustainable development. My colleague the Minister of the Environment, Housing and Lands of Barbados recently briefed the Preparatory Committee of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States on the progress of preparations for the Conference. My delegation will submit details on further progress when the item comes up for discussion in the substantive Committee. However, let me at this stage put on record my Government’s appreciation of the spirit and atmosphere which prevailed in the Preparatory Committee. Unfortunately, the meeting of the Preparatory Committee fell victim to the emergency conference-servicing measures announced by the Secretary-General on 26 August 1993 and for that and other reasons the preparatory process did not go as far as it might have. Barbados shares the view, expressed by many delegations attending the meeting of the Preparatory Committee, that it would be dangerous to leave finalization of the preparatory process until April 1994 in Barbados. Given the number and complexity of the issues left outstanding from the Preparatory Committee, Barbados is convinced that some arrangements must be put in place to continue the preparatory process. We therefore look forward to working with interested delegations towards reaching agreement on an appropriate mechanism for continuing the preparatory process prior to the commencement of the Conference. The Barbados Conference will provide the basis for the building of a partnership for the implementation of the decisions taken at Rio. The international community will be afforded the opportunity to signal its commitment to move forward towards more sustainable patterns of development in a pragmatic, realistic manner, based on practical, achievable goals. The people of Barbados look forward eagerly to welcoming representatives of each and every Member State in April 1994. The threat of natural disasters to the sustained development of small developing countries must not be underestimated. Barbados applauds the efforts of all those associated with the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction, to lessen the vulnerability of those communities most susceptible to such disasters. We consider it essential that response capabilities in this area be improved with all deliberate speed. Barbados is collaborating closely with the Caribbean Disaster Preparedness Agency, the Caribbean Regional System, and with the Pan American Health Organization/World Health Organization to continue to improve its capacity to bounce back from the effects of a grade five-hurricane or to be able to come to the aid of any of our Caribbean neighbours who may fall victim to any natural disasters. I am happy to be able to report that across our region we have succeeded to some degree, at great expenditure of effort and resources, in improving our capability to mitigate the effects of natural disasters. Barbados supports wholeheartedly the current initiative of the United Nations to fashion a safer environment for all. The Organization is now called upon to expand its activities over wide areas of the globe. The new freedom of action reflects the current geopolitical reality. A new configuration of power is taking shape. While it is too early to determine the outcome we must seek to mould this new phenomenon into an instrument for the preservation of peace and security and for the alleviation of human suffering everywhere. The Secretary-General has not missed an opportunity in recent times to highlight the dichotomy with which he is faced. He continues to point out that additional mandates are being heaped upon the Organization as a result of the new climate without a corresponding willingness to provide adequate resources for their execution. Barbados strongly supports the expressions of concern by the Secretary- General. We urge all Member States to do the best they can to correct this unsatisfactory situation. It is clear that there are some States whose capacity to pay may temporarily outstrip their actual ability to pay, but it is unconscionable for those who can pay not to do so. I trust, Mr. President, that under your expert guidance the General Assembly will finally be able to take appropriate measures to address the Forty-eighth session - 12 October l993 13 financial crisis threatening the very existence of the Organization. Barbados accepts that the Security Council must always be allowed to function without unnecessary hindrance. We recognize equally clearly the principle of accountability. The Council has served its purpose well in the past, but changing times and circumstances dictate the need for an enhanced participation. Twenty-seven years ago as a member of my country’s first delegation, I sat in this Hall and listened to the then Prime Minister, the Right Honourable Errol Barrow, deliver his inaugural address to the Assembly at its twenty-first session. In the intervening years though much has changed much has remained the same. Small countries like mine still belong to the submerged two thirds of the world’s population, and where we manage by our own painful efforts to raise our living standards we are faced with the prospect of graduation. To be faced with graduation on the one hand and structural adjustment on the other is to be caught between Scylla and Charybdis. Once again Barbados would urge with all the power at its command that the constant threat of graduation be lifted from the vulnerable economies of small, developing countries. In looking back over those 27 years with their ups and downs, their triumphs and disappointments, through prosperity and adversity, graduation and structural adjustment, as Mr. Barrow was on that day, I too am reminded of John Bunyan’s Mr. Valiant For Truth when he said: 'Tho with great difficulty I am got hither, Yet now I do not repent me of all the trouble I have been at to arrive where I am.' I am particularly pleased to offer my warm congratulations to Ambassador Insanally, both on my own behalf and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Tunisia, on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I am delighted to see him directing our work and I am convinced that in the choice it has made, the General Assembly intended to honour his country, which has been devoted to the cause of peace and international cooperation. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank his predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, for the contribution he made to the work of the forty-seventh session and for the great skill he evinced at that time. It is also a pleasant duty to pay tribute to the Secretary- General of the Organization, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his efforts and the determination in implementing the objectives and decisions of the United Nations aimed at resolving conflicts throughout the world. His is far from an easy task, particularly since those conflicts have multiplied and the activity and role of the United Nations today have increased as well. I should also like to congratulate the new Member States that have acceded recently to membership of our Organization and to welcome their delegations here present. I am quite certain that they will make their own valuable contributions to what is being done by the United Nations to promote peace and cooperation between nations. After the spectacular upheavals that the world has undergone, the current session provides us with a propitious opportunity to take a close look at the circumstances and the prospects offered by these changes and to consider ways and means of strengthening our Organization and its new fields of action, particularly on the basis of preventive diplomacy and on building relationships of trust and cooperation between States. Starting from 7 November 1987, Tunisia has been engaged in laying the foundations of a modern and advanced State capable of adapting to the changes that have taken place and continue to take place in the world. Tunisia hopes that after the era of dogmatism and ideology, the world will be able to evince greater maturity by putting more vigour in striving for cooperation between nations and solidarity between peoples. One of the signs of such maturity is undoubtedly the dynamic peace process in the Middle East. There can be no doubt that the premisses of peace in the Middle East which are now attracting the attention of the entire international community are an indication that an end to decades of confrontation, destruction and suffering is now in view. The historic mutual recognition between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization and the declaration of principles relating to the occupied territories are all important signposts along the road towards recognition of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, and are a cause for hope that a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East is in the offing. Tunisia, while welcoming these developments, would like to voice the hope that Israel will show the necessary courage to reach agreement with the Arab parties concerned in order to achieve a just and lasting peace that will guarantee that all the peoples of the region will live in security and stability, and that in the place of strife and conflict there will be good-neighbourliness. Devoted as it is to the universal values of peace and justice, Tunisia will continue to endeavour to give impetus to this dynamic peace process in the Middle East with a view to undoing the knot of the crises and conflicts that beset the world today. In line with this stance, Tunisia has made a point of being associated with the efforts of the international community and with the work of the United Nations in the service of peace, security and stability. It is in this context that we should view Tunisia’s participation in the operations involving supervision of the elections in Cambodia, despite the enormous difficulties that were encountered. Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 17 Also, Tunisia recently responded to the United Nations appeal to take part in the Somali operation; unfortunately, the situation seems to indicate that a return of peace in the short term seems rather unlikely. Tunisia also responded to the United Nations appeal to be associated in United Nations efforts in the Western Sahara, the purpose of which is to lay the groundwork for holding a referendum. Regarding the tragedy of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Tunisia once again appeals to the conscience of the world to work determinedly towards seeking a just settlement based on law and international legality rather than on the basis of fait accompli politics, so that a swift end may be put to this tragedy, particularly as winter is near. Since it remains faithful to its Arab and Islamic identity, and since it also belongs to the Maghreb, Tunisia will do everything it can to strengthen the ties of brotherhood and cooperation in order to achieve our objectives so that we may be able to realize the aspirations of our peoples of a better future. It is in this spirit that Tunisia and Algeria have recently concluded an agreement on the demarcation of the borders between our two fraternal countries. The agreement will be deposited shortly with the United Nations. In this context, we should like to express our sincere hope that all the problems in the Gulf region will be properly and rationally resolved, including the boundary disputes between Iraq and Kuwait and between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and that this will be achieved by peaceful means in line with existing agreements and the norms of international legality, in keeping with the new spirit which now inspires international relations as well as with the aspirations of our world after peace and stability in this particularly sensitive region. Tunisia’s efforts on the Arab Maghreb’s level in its capacity as current president of the Arab Maghreb Union aim at creating the necessary conditions that would enable us to make progress in building the Maghreb and strengthening its role in the international arena. Building the edifice of the Maghreb is part and parcel of the current development of international relations, which favours regional groupings. We for our part are doing everything we can to ensure that the Arab Maghreb Union keeps pace with events in a way that will make it possible to establish fruitful relations in the international context and more particularly with the regional Arab, European and Mediterranean groups so that, as a group it may serve as an instrument of peace and cooperation and a bastion of security and stability. The dispute between Libya, a member of the Arab Maghreb Union and three Western countries is a source of deep concern for us. Tunisia has worked hard within the Maghreb framework and at the Arab level to find a negotiated and honourable settlement that would safeguard the interests of all parties and spare the region the risk of any escalation of tension and instability. Tunisia has always worked for strengthening peace and cooperation in Africa. It is our hope that in future Africa will reap the beneficial side-effects of the profound international political and economic changes that have taken place, so that it may devote its efforts to development. Tunisia, which has welcomed the process of change in South Africa, and looks forward with optimism to seeing the April 1994 elections restore this great African country to a place worthy of its standing within the African family, calls upon all political parties to respect the agreement that has been concluded, and to implement it in good faith so that the peoples of Azania can see an end to racism and the advent of a new era of democracy. The establishment, at the most recent Summit of the Organization of African Unity, of machinery for the management and settlement of conflicts in Africa is also a source of great satisfaction. In our view, this is evidence of the determination of the African Heads of State to turn the page once and for all on wars and disputes and to embark upon a new era based on dialogue and fruitful cooperation. Henceforth, Africa will have to rely essentially on its own resources. However, it does need the support of the international community so that its efforts may succeed in achieving the goal of African development and African stability. Attention should be drawn to the suffering of many African States as a result of upheavals and conflicts such as those witnessed by Somalia, Liberia and Angola, which have now become sources of major concern for the entire international community. The international community must not remain unmoved by such events, which undermine whole States and sap their potential. We believe that the international community is capable of contributing genuinely to national reconciliation in those countries, and that by so doing it will make it possible to eliminate all the other sources of tension in the continent. 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The profound changes in international relations have undoubtedly imparted a global dimension to the problems of the world. International solidarity and cooperation in the new shape they have taken, have become an absolute necessity whether the issue in question has to do with the maintenance of peace, disarmament, the upholding of human rights, or with addressing problems relating to the environment, demography and development. On November 7th, Tunisia charted for itself an unswerving course in that area and boldly has taken several decisive steps toward laying the foundations of a State that functions under the rule of law, through institutions that uphold fundamental freedoms. Thus the concepts and principles of human rights, freedom, pluralism, the rule of law and State institutions, have become constants on which all Tunisians unite around their President Ben Ali, in order to devote themselves to laying the foundations of our society. Tunisia has spared no effort to ensure the success of the International Conference on Human Rights in Vienna, to facilitate the successful elaboration of a common approach and to identify the appropriate machinery to ensure respect for human rights. My country remains convinced that development, combatting poverty, the settlement of disputes that arise from foreign occupation, the elimination of racism and fanaticism, are all absolute imperatives in defending human rights of people, ensuring the stability of States and enabling their peoples to progress. In this respect, I should like to highlight one particular scourge namely the dangerous phenomenon of extremism and terrorism, especially that type of extremism which dons the garb and mask of religion while, in spirit and action, it constitutes a total negation of democracy and human rights. Tunisia, which unmasked in time the doublespeak of that type of extremism, has been able, through an overall strategy of political, economic, cultural and social achievement, to contain this phenomenon and thwart its designs. Consequently, our country now enjoys safety, stability and continued progress. We have listened with great attention to President William Clinton when he spoke this morning of the risks which continue to threaten security and stability throughout the world, particularly extremism - racial extremism above all - and religious extremism, which breed hatred and terrorism. Tunisia continues to appeal to the international community to intensify its efforts to contain this phenomenon which sows anarchy and chaos in the bosom of the international community and hampers the development process. It is high time for the international community as a whole to give serious thought to this phenomenon, to define its various forms and manifestations and to devise an international course of action and a legal framework to combat it. We should also look for just foundations that would reinforce the laws of asylum now in force in all States. It is obvious that while the right of asylum acquires a humanitarian character and is essentially a part of State sovereignty, the granting of asylum should be in accordance with certain ethical rules and principles which must be respected. Tunisia believes that the right of asylum is one of those common human values which must not be used for the purposes other than those for which they were created. The persistence of old problems and conflicts which drag on in various parts of the world, delays in development which plague a considerable segment of mankind highlight the fragility of peace and security. Consequently, it is essential to work for genuine disarmament. It was in keeping with this thinking that Tunisia acceded to the Non- Proliferation Treaty, the Treaty banning the development of biological weapons and signed, in January 1993, in Paris, the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction. I hardly need to recall that the concept of security transcends the purely military aspects and embraces various elements that encompass political stability and economic security. This means we have to draw up an agenda for development as a necessary prerequisite for the success of An Agenda for Peace. The right of both present and future generations to live in a healthy environment is today at the very centre of the concerns of the international community and is one of the main concerns of my country. To this end, Tunisia adopts a policy that combines preventive and remedial environmental programmes. That policy has yielded so far, many tangible results, in areas such as the conservation and safeguarding of natural resources, the protection of fisheries and coastlines, and the Forty-eighth session - 27 September l993 19 improvement of the quality of life. Ratification of the international conventions which followed the Earth Summit and the creation of a national Commission on Sustainable Development are all tangible facts which reflect Tunisia’s commitment to the implementation of the decisions of the Rio de Janeiro Summit. It goes without saying that steps taken at the national level can only be viable to the extent that the international community succeeds in identifying the interrelationships between the problems of the environment and those of development. In this connection, there is need for a new approach in addressing the issues of North-South relations. This means moving towards strengthening of a multilateral economic system in order effectively to respond to the priorities of the poorer countries. Tunisia has constantly given concrete expression to cooperation between the North and the South in its various aspects because it is convinced of the interdependence of the interests of the two groupings and the link between the growth and volume of assistance provided by the countries of the North. That is why it would be judicious to formulate a new approach to international cooperation which would encompass development assistance, trade, investment and the transfer of technology. To avoid a North-South schism, the developed countries must take account of the economic problems of the countries of the South, especially those problems that relate to the development process as well as the problems relating to the restructuring of their economies and to indebtedness. We cannot deal with international trade without taking up one vital question, namely the necessity of establishing a link between the transfer of technology to the developing countries and capital flows. In this connection, it must be recalled that indebtedness and debt-servicing, in the case of the developing countries, in most cases is the main obstacle that impedes further development and hampers full participation in the world economy. Although Tunisia has always honoured its financial commitments I should like in this connection to reiterate some proposals we made earlier on this subject: in particular regarding the rescheduling of debt by creating a special fund to finance job-creating development projects. There is no doubt that such projects, in addition to their direct return which would be beneficial to the recipient countries, will have the effect of settling populations in their original regions and thus contribute to reducing migratory flows to wealthier countries. In this very Hall, President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali proposed a contract for peace and development that in our estimation, would strengthen the existing capabilities and enhance potential in the States of the North and of the South alike. In his recent address to the European Parliament at Strasbourg in June 1993, President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali further proposed organizing a conference on the development of the Maghreb States with a view to establishing a new political, economic, social and cultural partnership between the Maghreb and the European States. Before concluding, I wish to touch on the question of the restructuring of the organs of the United Nations. I want again to welcome the initiatives of Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali to adapt the universal Organization’s structures to the ongoing changes in international relations, to rationalize the activities of the United Nations system and to reorganize the methods of its functioning. The elements of the proposed reform package should be carefully considered and discussed by all Member States with a view to making the Organization’s new structure more efficacious. The projected reforms - whether involving enlargement of the Security Council, redeployments in the Secretariat or cuts in spending - deserve our attention to the extent that they take account of the interests of the developing countries. We think the reforms should emphasize the principle of equality among Member States and guarantee decision-making balance among the Organization’s various organs, and particularly with respect to the Security Council and the General Assembly. Let me conclude by reiterating my wishes for the success of the work of the forty-eighth session; we count on it to realize the hopes of the peoples of our world. I have the honour of speaking on behalf of the European Community and its member States. Allow me, first of all, Mr. President, to pay a tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev, who conducted the General Assembly’s proceedings during its forty-seventh session. The Assembly has unanimously decided to entrust to you, Sir, the conduct of this the forty-eighth session. We welcome that decision as we are familiar with your personal qualities and your professional experience. We also see this as a well-earned tribute to your country, the Republic of Guyana, and to the contribution made by the Caribbean region to the activities of our Organization. The European Community and its member States, which continue to enjoy fruitful relations with the countries of the Caribbean, within 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session the dynamic framework of the Lomé Convention, assure you of their fullest cooperation. We welcome also the admission to our Organization of the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Eritrea, the Principality of Monaco, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the Principality of Andorra. In his address to the Assembly last year, my British colleague, Mr. Douglas Hurd, made the point that, after a brief interlude of optimism, the world had entered a period of instability and of challenges to law and order. This trend has increased over the past 12 months. We now have to cope with new crisis situations, while - speaking only about Europe - a just and lasting solution to such a long-standing problem as that of Cyprus has yet to be found, despite the continued efforts of our Organization. Long restrained by the so-called balance of terror, latent antagonisms have resurfaced in the Balkans, the Caucasus and Central Asia. The collapse of the old institutional frameworks has led to the emergence of forms of rapidly competing nationalisms. The personal ambitions of certain rulers and the propaganda machines they control have plunged clans or whole peoples into conflicts marked by the blind use of violence. In that process, the basic rights of the individual and the elementary rules of international humanitarian law have been constantly flouted. In other countries, the economic and social crisis has continued to provide fertile ground for religious fundamentalism, enabling it to increase the number both of its followers and of its victims. Elsewhere, the existence of a large immigrant population has served as a pretext for reactions of racial intolerance, which have even led to deliberate criminal acts. All these forms of fanaticism designate human beings as the enemy to be destroyed. They must be fought not only through political declarations and laws but also through a more sincere and committed engagement in favour of the human values which should unite us all across continents and cultures. The proliferation of these situations has gone hand in hand with a growing desire to possess weapons of mass destruction. In this connection, we are concerned by the actions of Member States of our Organization which have ample resources, bear regional responsibilities and claim to be lovers of peace. The proliferation of these weapons represents a grave threat to both global and regional security and stability. It is of the utmost importance that the Non- Proliferation Treaty should be unconditionally extended in 1995 for an indefinite period. Economic underdevelopment and the unacceptable living conditions of hundreds of millions of inhabitants of the planet constitute another major concern for the European Community and its member States. The outcome of three decades of development cooperation cannot be regarded as positive. This means that all of us, countries of the South and of the North, must take serious stock of the situation. We know that it is pointless to speak of peace in the world if we do not at the same time work towards global economic and social development. The forthcoming world conferences in Cairo, Copenhagen and Beijing will be important landmarks in this process. Our concerns have not blinded us to the important efforts undertaken in all regions of the world towards democratization and economic recovery. The Republics which made up the former Soviet Union have pursued the immense task of creating a political, economic and social framework designed to strengthen their sense of identity as individual nations. We must help these countries find ways of achieving deep-rooted national reconciliation while fully respecting each other’s territorial integrity. The European Community and its member States will continue to support them substantially through technical assistance and partnership agreements. They will also maintain their trade with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, in particular through new or strengthened association agreements. The European Community and its member States support President Yeltsin in his efforts to promote economic and political reform as well as to strengthen democracy in his country. It is in Africa that the gap between objectives and realities remains most discouraging. Two hundred million people across that continent live in abject poverty. However, in spite of armed conflicts and acute economic problems, there are undeniable signs of the dawn of a new political era. It is of course up to the African people to determine the pace and practical form of their democratic development. Some dictators, however, are still clinging to the power they have long exercised for their own exclusive benefit. Their armies, for whose services they somehow manage to pay, are like a weapon permanently aimed at their own people. Despite appearances, they are now no more than an anachronistic element of underdevelopment. South Africa is approaching the historic moment when the democratic majority of its people will accede to power. Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 11 The path leading to this has, alas, been littered with further massacres and attacks. The European Community and its member States reiterate their support for the negotiating process pursued by President Frederik De Klerk and Mr. Nelson Mandela and appeal to the international community to assist South Africa in this crucial phase by helping to organize elections and to rebuild and develop the country. In Asia, the positive trend of the past few years has been maintained. On the economic front, the Asian countries of the Pacific Rim, particularly China, are characterized by remarkable dynamism. The European Community and its member States hope that this progress will swiftly bear positive results for the living and working conditions of their populations. Latin America is a continent at peace, continuing its economic recovery in accordance with the objectives of democratically elected Governments. In several of these countries, rapid population growth, social imbalances and drug-trafficking are, however, still a considerable handicap in the march towards progress. More attention has been paid by the authorities to the indigenous peoples, but certain tragic events have occurred to remind us of the precarious conditions in which those peoples live. The European Community and its member States welcome the substantially improved prospects for peace and stability in the Middle East. They hope that following the recent Israeli-Palestinian agreements new decisive steps will be taken by Israel and the Arab countries directly concerned in the Middle East peace process. The recent Israeli-Jordanian declaration of principles is a positive move in this direction. We call upon this Assembly to take account of these major developments when considering the situation in the Middle East. The European Community and its member States, in keeping with their long-standing position, stand ready to assume, in close coordination with the competent international institutions, an important part in the general coordination of the assistance offered by the international community to the Palestinian people in the occupied territories. In this connection donor countries will, above all, have to be guided by criteria of efficiency and speed. During this difficult period the United Nations has not been merely a passive onlooker. The World Conference on Human Rights made it possible to adopt a Final Declaration which reaffirms and enriches the universal consensus on the essential respect due in all circumstances to the human person. The Vienna Programme of Action provides for a large number of measures to ensure greater respect for, and promotion of, such rights throughout the world. The European Community and its member States will endeavour, from the present session, to achieve application of these measures, in particular as regards increased resources for the Centre for Human Rights and the appointment of a United Nations high commissioner for human rights. Active preparations have continued for other world conferences, on population, social development and the promotion of women. The follow-up to Rio was ensured by the first meeting of the Commission on Sustainable Development, which, from the outset, established a relation of partnership, which we consider to be highly promising. The 'Agenda for Peace' has been discussed in various bodies. The warm welcome it has received has been followed by various practical measures of implementation. We would, however, like our Assembly to show more willingness to abandon its reservations regarding certain types of preventive action which have already been adopted in practice by the Security Council and the Secretary-General. The Organization itself has embarked on and made progress with a series of restructuring measures. The most complex is probably the restructuring of the Security Council, but it is encouraging that this topic is now the subject of open dialogue. Pending a reform which would not compromise its efficiency, the Council has kept up the pace of its activities. It has given a larger place in practice to the concepts of preventive diplomacy and cooperation with regional organizations. The Secretary-General has resolutely backed this trend both through his numerous visits on the ground or those of his personal representatives and through the adjustments he has made within the Secretariat. These have focused particularly on strengthening the departments responsible for managing peace-keeping operations. The indispensable extension of these services has not yet been completed and will require further assistance from the Member States. Indeed, there has been an overwhelming increase in the United Nations operations in this area over the last few years. They have not simply multiplied: their objectives have also diversified. In several cases, the traditional task of peace-keeping has had to be supplemented 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session or, initially, replaced by the much more delicate task of restoring peace. The Organization has, in the eyes of some, met with failure in the very difficult situations with which it has had to cope in the former Yugoslavia and Somalia. The duplicity of some warlords constitutes a permanent threat of destabilization. But, in no circumstances has the international community chosen to combine humanitarian-aid missions with peace-restoring missions. The use of force has been seen only as a last resort in order to come to the help of people held hostage by self-proclaimed leaders. Our Organization has consequently been constrained to use, under certain circumstances, means corresponding to the provocations it has had to face. We must, however, draw lessons from the experience acquired through these various operations. The breadth and complexity of humanitarian crises throughout the world also require greater coordination of humanitarian assistance both during strategic planning of operations and during their implementation on the ground. The spirit of perseverance, in compliance with the Charter and human rights, is more necessary than ever. It enabled Cambodia to implement the Paris Agreements in conditions which proved to be very difficult - as indeed they had promised to be. This represents a great victory for the Cambodian people as well as a remarkable success for the United Nations, and was achieved through unprecedented effort: by numerous Governments, by thousands of officials and volunteers, and also by large numbers of soldiers, dozens of whom sacrificed their lives. The European Community and its member States pay tribute to the 'Blue Helmets' who, frequently killed in cold blood, have been victims of their duty throughout the world. Their safety, as well as that of all United Nations staff, must be improved and the pursuit of their aggressors must be organized more effectively. The European Community and its member States are also convinced of the need to react to the consequences of the presence of mines resulting from armed conflicts. These devices claim numerous victims every year amongst the civilian population and jeopardize the rehabilitation of vast areas of territory ravaged by war. We ask this Assembly to consider the draft resolution which we have submitted on this subject with a view to a more systematic and effective organization of assistance in mine-clearing. We also welcome the French initiative of asking the United Nations Secretary-General to convene a conference to review the 1981 Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects. Thus, the overall picture of activities by the United Nations and its Members during the last 12 months is far from disappointing, and I could have listed many other positive developments. However, when we consider the difficulties facing us, it is hard to claim categorically that, whatever happens, the United Nations will be able to meet the challenges of the future effectively. The Secretariat’s capacities are being used to the full; they are no longer sufficient to deal with Member States’ wishes in every case. The Organization’s coffers are empty or virtually so. The development of new activities is hampered more and more often by disagreements about the allocation of costs. Most of the major contributors, who are seriously affected in their own countries by an unfavourable economic situation, regard strict budgetary restraint as more important than ever. The cost of peace-keeping operations alone will be $3.6 billion for 1993. In addition to the immediate cash-flow problems, there is an increasing structural deficit in the balance between the ability to take multilateral action and ever-increasing requests for intervention. What can we do to ensure that the United Nations does not fall victim to its own success? We feel that finding a solution entails three areas of action. First, of course, all Member States must pay their contributions fully and in a timely manner. That is a fundamental obligation with which the European Community and its member States never fail to comply. The effort this requires is neither more nor less than that demanded of other contributors, be they 'big' or 'small', for each Member State is required to make a contribution in line with its ability to pay. Failure to pay represents a serious breach of the commitments entered into, and it is all the more regrettable that certain defaulting countries at the same time lay claim to a privileged role in the Organization’s debates and decisions. Secondly, the various reforms undertaken in order to improve the operational efficiency of the Organization have to be pursued with a maximum of determination. We have in mind in particular the management of the Secretariat, the control of its expenditures and the forthcoming restructuring in the economic and social sector. It is unacceptable that the objectives set could not be met owing to interminable Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 13 negotiations or power struggles between senior administrators. Thirdly, although the United Nations remains an intergovernmental body, it is called upon more and more frequently to fulfil a central government task, with responsibility for solving each and every problem that may arise. In order to cope with this growing tide of demands, the Secretary-General in his 'Agenda for Peace' has quite rightly stressed the need for cooperation with regional organizations and arrangements. But are they ready? Do they exist everywhere? Does the strengthening of cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations offer real prospects if the latter do not become effective centres of decision and action? We feel that, without the capacity for swift and ongoing intervention on a regional scale, preventive diplomacy by our Organization is a resource which is undoubtedly indispensable but of limited scope. It will indeed facilitate successes here and there, but will be insufficient to come to grips with the most deep-rooted and most threatening antagonisms. If nothing changes, the danger of entire countries imploding is real. The situation will channel multilateral resources more and more into makeshift rescue and rehabilitation operations, to the detriment of collective sustainable development objectives. In this connection the positive effects of an area of stability such as the European Community no longer need to be demonstrated. The European Community was inspired at the start by a profound desire for peacemaking and reconstruction. The same needs and aspirations are to be found elsewhere in the world but have not been matched by a comparable response. We believe that there is no alternative to the establishment of such areas in every continent. The resolute pursuit of regional economic integration is a decisive and indispensable step in that direction. The benefits of economies of scale and the free movement of persons and goods then contribute as much to consolidating peace as to sharing prosperity. By uniting to form centres of stability and progress, the participating countries gradually free themselves of the mounting problems and crises which, at this time of tremendous change, tend to be more than they can cope with on their own. In addition to these areas of stability, it is also necessary to create or strengthen broader regional mechanisms, making it possible for a number of subregions to develop principles of peaceful and prosperous coexistence. Here, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe can serve, if not as a universal model, at least as a source of inspiration. Even if its ability to intervene directly is limited, it constitutes an indispensable platform for dialogue. When internal or bilateral crises occur, it encourages the neighbouring countries to show moderation and thus contributes to limiting the conflict. As respect for common rules grows, more concrete collective actions can be envisaged. These are the essential tools for achieving the threefold objective which the Secretary-General recommends in his latest report on the activities of the Organization: peace, development and democracy. Already 32 years ago, a young Egyptian jurist declared at the Academy of International Law: 'To encourage assemblies of States in a world that is becoming more and more Balkanized, to play the role of bringing peoples together and to offer massive and constant aid to underdeveloped countries: these should be the primary objectives of the international organization.' (Recueil des cours, Académie de Droit International, La Haye, 1960, II, pp. 69-70) This jurist is today at the head of our Organization. To be sure, in all continents regional bodies have already embarked on this course of action: in the past year they have contributed, in cooperation with the United Nations, to crucial mediation and peace-keeping ventures - but always after the conflict had flared up. Areas of genuine stability and more reliable regional mechanisms would make it possible to forestall major crises by reducing their causes. Regional integration indeed can only help contain the collective frustrations and anxieties that fuel nationalist movements. It also provides a formidable incentive for economic growth and therefore a strategic element in combating poverty. Finally, regional economic integration, as it is progressively being built, simply eliminates the option of war from the thinking of the Governments and peoples involved. The disintegration of the former Yugoslavia and its tragic consequences make it all too clear that the comments we have just made relate to a course of action that will prove long and demanding rather than a miracle cure. 14 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Neither the European Community nor the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe has been able to prevent the outbreak of the conflict and the subsequent series of disasters. Like the United Nations and the United States of America, the European Community and its member States have consequently been accused of lacking strategy and of indifference. For the European Community and its members, one of the lessons to be learned from this catastrophe is that the deepening of its own internal relations - more Europe rather than less Europe - would strengthen the role it must play as an instrument for promoting stability and peace in Europe and neighbouring areas. No one can dispute, however, the fact that the European Community and its member States have endeavoured to mediate from the earliest days of the conflict. It was the members of the European Community who, going against the current, managed to persuade the whole Security Council to react to the worsening situation. Without compromising their positions of principle, and despite numerous disappointments, the member States of the Community have at no point wearied of their thankless task. The efforts deployed at the London and Geneva Conferences bear witness to this. As you are aware, the European Community and its member States have played a fundamental role on the ground, particularly through the activities of their monitors, in the implementation of sanctions and through their contribution to the United Nations Protection Force and to measures to help the victims of the civil war. The European Community and its member States also reiterate their readiness to participate in the implementation of a peace plan accepted by all the parties. The Treaty of Maastricht on the European Union should provide us with the means of strengthening the Union’s ability to act in the world, in particular by implementing the common foreign and security policy. Once it has entered into force - which should happen in the next few days - that Treaty will enable the European Union to play an enhanced role in all areas of international policy and security and will establish close working relations between the European Union and the Western European Union. Moreover, the imminent enlargement of the European Union to include new members will simply increase its ability to exercise a stabilizing influence over adjacent countries. The enlargement of the European Union and its readiness to conclude association and cooperation agreements of ever wider scope with virtually all regions and countries of the globe are proof of our sincere desire to forge ahead with the building of Europe while at the same time opening Europe to the world. This is the kind of Europe that is proving increasingly able to serve the objectives of the Charter. It provides encouragement to other countries and regions to unite, to join together, as Europe has done, in the common task of achieving greater peace in tomorrow’s world. The United Nations has embarked on an irreversible process of profound transformation. Efficiency and flexibility will be the defining features of this process. But an effective United Nations must continue to be in the service of peace and development. The United Nations of the next century must not be a mechanism, however efficient, for balancing the interests of the most powerful. The Organization must move ahead as the world’s primary instrument for promoting development and solidarity among nations and among men. Our Organization is first and foremost a body of sovereign nations. It does not and cannot have any other will than that expressed here by Member States. The drastic increase in the number of Members over the last four years, something that had not been seen since the days of 18 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session decolonization, underscores this characteristic and is also proof of the confidence that we States place in the United Nations. This community of nations now wishes to internationalize certain issues which in earlier times fell exclusively within the internal jurisdiction of States. Mexico, as a country aware of its international responsibilities, is acting within the requirements of the new consensuses. But we must repeat time and again that we reject the idea of international action developing to the detriment of national sovereignty. All the peoples represented here must participate in forging the Organization of the future. Mexico sees in any reforms a historic opportunity to strengthen the democratic life of this Organization. The question of equitable representation in the Security Council plays a central role in the reform of our Organization. There is a consensus on the need to increase the number of seats in the Council. Whereas in 1945 there were 51 Members of the United Nations, today there are 184 of us. For this reason, we should perhaps try, at the very least, to double the number of seats in the Council. But simply increasing the membership would not be enough. The restructuring of the Council must take into account, first of all, the fact that the Council lacks authority of its own. It acts by the mandate of those of us who have decided, as sovereign States, to delegate our authority to it for the delicate task of maintaining world peace. The question of the Council’s composition must be addressed having regard to the overriding need to guarantee the legitimacy and transparency of the Council’s actions. Those who make the greatest contributions to the maintenance of peace, not necessarily those who are the largest producers and exporters of the world’s weapons, should be members of the Council. Carrying out peace- keeping operations is not simply a question of placing military contingents at the Council’s disposition. We must recognize the efforts of all those countries which have brought about the peaceful settlement of international disputes. The recent frequent recourse to the Security Council has tended to hide the fact that our first obligation is to resolve differences by peaceful means. A representative body must be democratic. The right of veto is not democratic, and therefore Mexico has never supported it. Together, we must seek new ways to control the exercise of that right and ensure that no permanent member alone can decide or obstruct the Council’s action. Transparency in the working methods of the Council will restore to the General Assembly the primacy derived from its universality and pluralism. We propose that a General Assembly working group be established to make recommendations on all aspects of the Security Council’s reform. In recent years peace-keeping operations have increased considerably. This shows that the world has not yet managed to resolve its most pressing problems. Nationalisms persist. Xenophobia and racism are on the rise. Extreme poverty has increased. Mexico sees peace-keeping operations as an excellent instrument for containing the effects of conflict situations. Such operations exist to create the conditions for a political solution to be reached by peaceful means. They are an opportunity for peace, but they are not peace itself. Before the Security Council decides to set up a peace- keeping operation, all parties to the conflict must have given their consent. Only in this way can we guarantee the inviolability of the sovereign rights of States and respect for their internal jurisdiction. A clear mandate is also indispensable. Precisely because their functions have become diversified, the Blue Helmets must have clearly delimited fields of activity. My Government is concerned that the scope of activity of the members of those forces can be widened in situ, and that their areas of competence are confused with other collective actions based on the enforcement measures outlined in Chapter VII of the Charter. In Somalia United Nations forces should only ensure that the international humanitarian aid reaches its intended beneficiaries. The international community’s support for peace-keeping operations and humanitarian relief depends on their impartiality and transparency. Mexico makes an urgent appeal to Member States immediately to lay down parameters regulating all aspects of the establishment and functioning of peace-keeping operations. No force can replace political will in finding solutions to international conflicts. This is demonstrated by the Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 19 agreement between the Palestinian Liberation Organization and the State of Israel regarding autonomy for the occupied territories. Mexico congratulates both the parties involved, as well as those who assisted them in this great success of political intelligence, of concertation and respect for the rights of the other side. Weapons are yielding to the rule of reason. The self-determination of peoples and the right of every State to live within secure and recognized boundaries - principles to which Mexico has always subscribed - are beginning to gain strength in the Middle East. In contrast to the signs of hope we are seeing in the Middle East, the failure of the efforts to bring peace to the former Yugoslavia is clear. Peace plans come and go, but there has been no end to the killing and suffering of innocent people. Mexico urges all the parties to the conflict to agree on concrete confidence-building measures which will allow the conditions for a broad, lasting agreement to be created. Mexico welcomes the recent decision by the United States, France, the United Kingdom and Russia unilaterally to extend the moratorium on nuclear testing. This decision will make it possible for the Conference on Disarmament finally to begin negotiations to ratify a treaty completely banning these tests. We hope that all the nuclear Powers, including China, will join the moratorium. This historic decision, inspired and encouraged from the beginning by my country, will be a vital step in preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Mexico stresses the priority of the negotiations, both on their own merits and because of the effect they will have on the next Non- Proliferation Treaty Review Conference, which will determine the future of this important international instrument. For Mexico, the complete cessation of nuclear tests is inextricably linked to the fate of the non-proliferation regime. The community of nations must now confront another danger: drugs. Now the largest illegal business in history, they are putting an end to human lives, corrupting the forces of order and harming political institutions, and they can even affect the stability of States. We cannot question the merit of the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, an instrument which has served to guide State policies and coordinate international cooperation. Certain local and national battles have been won as a result of them. But the war has not been won, and it is now a world war. In view of the uncontrollable spread throughout the world of the dirty business of drugs, of their consumption, production and traffic, and all the related illegal activities, we must give thought to the ineffectiveness of the strategies we have followed, and we must adopt a new course. We must intensify our political determination, imagination and strategic creativity and, above all, international cooperation in which there is respect for sovereignty and no one claims preeminence, in order to stop the growth of this terrible social cancer. Another central issue of our times is the great migratory currents which are developing with renewed vigour as the century draws to a close. The great international migrations are a result of the polarization of wealth and well-being. They are a problem which affects the entire world, exceeding the capacity for action of individual States. We need new plans for international cooperation to seek solutions to the most distressing problems relating to economic underdevelopment. Every wave of migration throughout history has its own explanations, and the explanations are not necessarily related. However, they always include the search for a better life. Changes in the world’s structure are both a brake on migration and an encouragement. In 1989, 1 per cent of the world’s population - more than 50 million people - lived outside their country of origin. In 1992, only three years later, this figure had doubled. At the beginning of the 1990s, the number of refugees in the world had reached 17 million. Those countries which, because of their economic development and social peace, seem to be able to accept new groups of migrants are today undergoing internal conflicts at times expressed through manifestations of ethnic and religious intolerance. During this period of difficult transition towards a new ordering of power and balance in the world, internal tensions, protectionist tendencies, the global recession and the disintegration of numerous States have combined to make certain countries perceive the phenomenon of migration as a threat to their national security. Let us keep this phenomenon from overwhelming us by adopting restrictive measures that are only superficial palliatives. Mexico proposes that the Assembly begin serious thought on this subject as soon as possible. 20 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The national plans of any State must be based on policies which make it possible for the inhabitants to live in a dignified manner in their own country. Only in this way can we ensure that whole peoples will not try to leave in search of better economic opportunities. Extreme poverty has increased in all areas of the world. For as long as the richest one fifth of the world’s population represents 83 per cent of total income, we will have failed in our efforts at economic cooperation. The countries of Latin America and those of Central and Eastern Europe have made special efforts to make internal adjustments to bring about economic reforms that would have been hard even to imagine a few years ago. The problem of critical poverty, however, cannot be left to the whim of market forces. In Mexico the State has not abdicated its social responsibility. Indeed, we have strengthened our development policies based on solidarity. President Carlos Salinas de Gortari has said, time and time again, that in order to consolidate any programme of adjustment and economic stability, the promotion of social programmes is indispensable. He has also stressed that the expansion, modernization and proper orientation of educational programmes was the only way, in the long term, to increase productivity and raise the living standards of the people. The convening of the World Summit for Social Development in 1995 shows that the United Nations has acknowledged the priority nature of this item on the international agenda. Mexico is already participating with enthusiasm in preparations for this important event. In the course of this year the World Conference on Human Rights was held at Vienna. The agreements reached must lead to a strengthening of already existing legal instruments. The community of States participating in the Conference expressed their political determination to implement these agreements in a non-selective manner, with objectivity and respect for universality. This is a fundamental aspect of the protection and promotion of human rights throughout the world. Mexico would repeat before the Assembly that full respect for human rights requires us to direct our efforts towards the weakest groups: those that live in conditions of poverty, refugees, ethnic minorities, and all those people in need of respect for their way of life and their culture. Mexico’s total trade with the United States of America and Canada is equivalent to 20 per cent of its gross national product. For this reason it signed the North American Free Trade Agreement and parallel agreements. On that basis we hope to promote, regulate and ensure trade flows, services and investments among these three countries. In due course this will be the largest free-trade area in the world: 360 million people with a product worth $7 trillion, a moving force of principal importance for the world economy. But Mexico is also a substantial and proud part of Latin America. We have our cultural links and historic alliances in Latin America. We give priority to our cooperation with Central America and with the countries of the Caribbean. We participate actively in the Rio Group and in the Latin American Economic System (SELA). We, together with Colombia and Venezuela, are involved in negotiations on free trade with the Group of Three, and we hope that these will be completed this year. With Chile we already have an agreement which has been in existence since January 1992. We are also having talks with other countries in the area. We participate actively in the Ibero-American Conference, which is gaining the kind of standing that befits an organization of 21 Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking countries in America and Europe. As an Atlantic country we feel very close to Europe, where we have our principal partners and friends. We feel especially close to the European Community, with which we have a standing dialogue. We are also a Pacific country and have significantly expanded the number of our representatives and our trade with Asian countries. We appreciate the support that has been given to us by the countries of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Council to help us to enter that body very soon. We have also been invited by the 24 countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). We appreciate the invitation. We are working out the details of our entry into this prestigious group. We congratulate the leaders of South Africa, President De Klerk and Nelson Mandela, on the agreements that they have reached and we are ready immediately to initiate full relations with that Republic. We recognize and fully support the efforts that have been made in Haiti. Our Ambassador has now returned to Port au Prince. We reiterate our offer to the Secretary- General to give technical and economic resources for the general recovery of Haiti. Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 21 We wish to continue to be respectful friends of each and every one of the States that are Members of the United Nations. The central strategy of the foreign policies of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari are diversification and the deepening of our relations with all regions and countries of the world. Mexico has already begun preparations for the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. In my country this will not be an occasion for meaningless celebrations and self-congratulatory gestures. We are making a serious effort to give serious thought to the future of the Organization. The first question that we must answer, however, is: What functions do we want the United Nations to perform in the coming century? All the rest will follow by accretion. If in truth we have an opportunity - as has so often been said since the end of the cold war - to turn the Organization into the cornerstone of a truly new, more just international order, then let us take action. On behalf of the Mauritius delegation, it is my pleasure and privilege to extend to Mr. Insanally our heartiest congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly at its forty- eighth session. We wish to assure him and members of his Bureau of our full cooperation and support in the tasks that lie ahead of them. The election of a representative of Guyana to the presidency of this Assembly is gratifying in more ways than one and underlines the fact that even the smallest of States belonging to this Organization has a role to play on the international scene and will not shy away from any responsibility that may be entrusted to it, however big the challenge. We should also like to place on record our appreciation of his predecessor for the commendable manner in which he conducted the deliberations of the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. Mauritius is pleased to welcome into the family of the United Nations its new Members: Andorra, the Czech Republic, Eritrea, Monaco, the Slovak Republic and The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. We are hopeful that these new Members will uphold and strengthen the ideals enshrined in the Charter of this Organization and we look forward to their active participation in our deliberations. Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 29 It is important, in my delegation’s view, that I address in the first instance an issue of prime concern to the functioning of our Organization. There is at present much debate and ambivalence about the future role and orientations of the United Nations. While it is generally accepted that the United Nations as a multilateral organization should adapt to and reflect the profound changes that have taken place since its founding, considerable doubt exists on what proposals and practical measures should be adopted to make the United Nations system more effective and forge it into a relevant instrument of global governance. Is the United Nations able to respond to the new demands, opportunities and challenges that have emerged especially since the end of the cold war and still remain true to its Charter? That the United Nations in recent years has already been able to play a more central role in world affairs and assume greater responsibilities in the wide range of social and political problems is an indication that it has earned the growing acceptance of the world community as a legitimate vehicle for addressing significant global issues. However, beneath the prestige of regained moral stature and recognition that its ideals and message are still valid is the reality that the United Nations administrative structures and institutions are in dire need of reform. The United Nations system remains ill-equipped for the scope of its current operations and activities. The evolving nature of the United Nations will therefore have a crucial impact on the future shape and management of the post-cold-war international economic and political environment. The current debate on revitalization and restructuring hinges on whether the United Nations should become more focused or more encompassing. Despite clear pronouncements for change at the level of the Assembly, the Security Council, social and economic organs and peace- keeping operations, it is evident that many Member States are neither expecting the process to result in any sweeping structural reforms nor contemplating a revision of the Charter. Progress will therefore need to come from within, the result of a balancing act between divergent interests and political considerations. It would be unfortunate, however, if such an agreement were merely a reflection of a lowest common denominator rather than the product of genuine cooperation. I concede that the reform of such an Organization is no easy task and requires the assistance of one and all. Last year the Mauritius delegation to the General Assembly commended the Secretary-General’s efforts at reforming our Organization. I should like to reiterate our appreciation for what has been achieved so far and our support for the work currently being undertaken by the Secretary-General to revitalize the United Nations. I remain convinced that the emerging global situation has brought the objective of restructuring the United Nations system within reach. Such reform should, in the end, cater for the aspirations of the peoples of this world and enable the Organization to respond favourably to the emerging new expectations. The General Assembly, we believe, ought to be encouraged, by its increased membership and a general trend towards democratization, to assume a more preponderant place in the affairs of the Organization. It should strengthen its policy-making role, especially in the social and economic fields, so as to exercise greater balance with the Security Council, whose mandate is now expanding beyond the traditional delineation of threats to peace and security into such areas as human-rights violations and humanitarian assistance, through preventive diplomacy and innovative peace-keeping operations. Thus, while remaining the crucial forum for discussion, the General Assembly would increase its capacity to respond to major problems and take initiatives. On the other hand, greater consensus among its members has enabled the Security Council to assert its authority and break new ground in authorizing the use of force under Chapter VII of the Charter - for example, in Somalia, where domestic jurisdiction would normally apply, or Yugoslavia, through preventive action. The Council has also had more frequent recourse to sanctions, using them on five occasions since 1990. The intensification of the United Nations presence has undeniably enhanced the reputation of the Organization. But it has also raised questions about the Council’s composition and apprehension over its decision- making process. The new responsibilities and importance assumed by the Council would justify, in our view, some form of enlargement to reflect the new level of membership of the United Nations. A more representative Council would earn recognition and legitimate acceptance and be able to take action quickly and effectively with the imprimatur of fairness. The Council could, we believe, withstand changes and still retain its main executive function, while improving at 30 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session the same time its coordination with other United Nations bodies, such as the General Assembly. Peace-keeping has become one of the major responsibilities of the Council. The rapid expansion of peace-keeping operations and the huge involvement of United Nations personnel in this area have boosted confidence in the Organization and given it a higher international profile. Unfortunately, peace-keeping is also becoming a heavy burden in terms of financial and human resources, which threatens to curtail the Organization’s involvement in other priority areas. Peace-keeping should not be confined merely to narrow security objectives, excluding broader considerations of non-military threats to security. The Security Council has, in fact, special responsibility in shaping the future of peace-keeping as an effective safeguard in areas of conflict, or potential conflict, in volatile domestic or regional situations where major threats to international peace reside today. However, as the Secretary-General notes in his report on the implementation of the recommendations of his 'Agenda for Peace', 'Peace-keeping is in a state of rapid evolution as the United Nations is asked to undertake increasingly complex and dangerous tasks.' (A/47/965, para. 26) As the mandate of peace-keeping operations extends beyond their traditional domain into such areas as electoral assistance, humanitarian relief activities, human-rights monitoring, assistance for nation-building, border-monitoring and sanctions enforcement, clearer peace-keeping guidelines and standards, based on properly defined mandates and adequate financial support, become essential. Within the parameters of fundamental principles and their interpretation, peace-keeping operations should be designed to work. The United Nations has made good use of the lessons of concrete and painful experience. Mauritius, for its part, would like to suggest that when carrying out the reform exercise we should not only address the issues of financial resources or expansion of the membership of the Security Council, but also look at matters of concern raised in other forums and their attendant consequences for this Organization. We should, hence, not fail to give due attention to the principles contained in the Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, adopted at the eighteenth special session of the General Assembly, especially with respect to the rejuvenation of equitable economic growth and development. We must bear clearly in mind other new and globally agreed programmes, such as the New Agenda for the Development of Africa, Agenda 21, which came out of the Rio Conference, and the recommendations of the second World Conference on Human Rights. Any changes in the structure of the United Nations should be the product of as large a consensus as possible, in order to preserve the credibility of our Organization, and in this task we must be guided inexorably by the spirit of the United Nations Charter. However, while we uphold this spirit, it is our opinion that serious consideration should be given to a review of the provisions of the Charter. A rereading of the Charter would enable us to look anew at its contents and allow us to propose amendments in the light of new world realities. I also urge that the Assembly insist on greater clarity in its resolutions. This will certainly facilitate action and prevent time lost discussing varying interpretations of resolutions. No doubt, one of the most striking events since the last session of the General Assembly has been the second World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna in June of this year. The Conference was an opportunity to review the evolution of the attitudes of the peoples of the world towards the upholding of the rights and dignity of man since the first World Conference on Human Rights, which was held in Tehran in 1968. The quarter of a century that separates the holding of these two Conferences has witnessed a lot of changes, notably the assertion of those States which emerged from the demise of colonization. In Vienna, both the old and the new players in the world’s human rights forums were able to put forward their concerns and aspirations. The discussions, though not always easy, had the advantage of being frank. We in Mauritius firmly believe that the end result of the Conference will be beneficial to the protection of the rights of the individual. We must see to it, however, that the provisions of the Vienna Declaration and Plan of Action are implemented and do not become mere additional documents in the international archives. In this context, I wish yet again to make a special appeal to this Assembly for a substantial increase in the resources of the Centre for Human Rights to enable it to attend to its responsibilities with consistency and efficiency and thus contribute more effectively to the universal upholding of human rights. Mauritius wishes to reiterate, in the most forceful manner possible, its support for the recommendation of the Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 31 second World Conference on Human Rights that this Assembly address urgently the need to establish a post of United Nations high commissioner for human rights. It is our sincere hope that a favourable decision will be reached to reflect the wishes of the peoples of the world. Such an office would play the necessary role of coordinating United Nations work on human rights and would be the focal point for upholding human rights norms. In keeping with its stand on human rights issues, Mauritius would also like to state its support for the responsibilities assigned to the International Tribunal for the prosecution of those responsible for the serious crimes committed against humanity in the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1 January 1991. We would like to congratulate all those eminent persons who have been elected to sit on this Tribunal and wish them well in their difficult task. Indeed, we view with great concern and sadness the atrocities and untold sufferings endured by the peoples of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, particularly the children. Let the impartial conclusions of the Tribunal serve as a lesson to those who believe they can get away with such degrading actions, such disrespect for human life. The seriousness and steadfastness with which the Tribunal carries out its duty will bear witness to the fact that the world community does not remain insensitive and will not be complacent in the face of such despicable and reprehensible acts wherever and whenever they occur. Yet as this century of our so-called civilized world fades away, the history of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be written with the blood of thousands of innocent men, women and children. Earlier this year the world exulted at the news that France, the United States of America and the Russian Federation had voluntarily extended their moratoriums on nuclear testing. It is heartening to observe that 1993 may yet be the year when the world will have enjoyed the longest respite from nuclear testing and its attendant consequences, despite the recent disturbing reports pointing to the possibility of a resumption of nuclear testing by certain countries. No one doubts the nuclear strength of the countries which have made the moratorium a policy and it is to their credit that they have so far not been tempted to show their might by resuming nuclear testing. It is our sincere wish that members of the nuclear club adhere to their declared moratoriums, for the resumption of nuclear testing by any of those States would jeopardize the 1995 conference for the review and extension of the non-proliferation Treaty, and would, to our mind, inevitably undermine the current efforts aimed at global disarmament. It would be unrealistic on our part not to recognize that, despite uncertainties and ongoing foyers of tension, the world political climate has improved considerably. As cold war rivalry faded, significant bilateral progress was made with the conclusion of the START Treaties and the subsequent agreements for reduction in the respective nuclear arsenals of the erstwhile super-Powers. These positive efforts were reinforced internationally by the decision of a number of States, including France, China and South Africa, to adhere to the non-proliferation Treaty at a crucial phase in its review process. Such encouraging developments bode well for all small nations like ours whose safety rests upon the foundations of a reliable collective security system. The recent historic agreement between the PLO and Israel and the imminent constitution of a democratic non-racial South Africa should pave the way for rapid progress towards the denuclearization of Africa. Likewise, we note with great satisfaction the consensus emerging in the deliberations of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean to adopt new approaches in response to the changing international situation and give fresh impetus to the process of strengthening cooperation, peace, security and stability in the Indian Ocean region. The increased participation in this year’s session suggests that the General Assembly could accordingly consider broadening the Committee’s mandate. Success at the regional level depends largely on a global atmosphere that is conducive to disarmament. We wish therefore to reiterate, in this perspective, the importance of the current negotiations for the review of the NPT and the conclusion of a test ban which should provide non-nuclear States with firm security assurances and address the various issues of nuclear proliferation. The threat of the spreading of smaller nuclear weapons is compounded by the availability of weapons-grade nuclear material produced from plutonium and highly enriched uranium and the relative lack of proper commercial safeguards. To these dangers must be added the potential hazard of nuclear pollution and the dumping of toxic wastes. Casting a glance at the world in general, we have reason to hope for the advent of peace in the various hitherto violence-ridden regions of our planet in a not-too-distant future. On the African continent, we note a trend towards solutions to difficult situations. In Mozambique, we salute the signing of the General Peace Agreement for Mozambique between the Government of Mozambique and 32 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session RENAMO, the Mozambique national resistance movement. We commend the positive contribution of the United Nations operations in Mozambique. We urge the leaders concerned to show sufficient flexibility in the current negotiations aimed at elaborating appropriate electoral laws for the country. South Africa is another source of hope. We in Mauritius have been following very closely the evolution of discussions in the multiparty negotiating forum and are particularly appreciative of the resolution adopted unanimously by the Technical Negotiating Council on 16 August 1993, which endorses the return of Walvis Bay and the offshore islands to Namibia. We have had the opportunity to congratulate those responsible for this very positive step, which we also applaud as a confidence- building measure in that region. We welcome the installation of the Transitional Executive Council and wish to pledge our readiness - as a country which has made, in its own modest way, its share of contributions to the democratization process across the world - to help in the preparations leading to the elections of 27 April 1994. The capacity to dismantle apartheid, establish the basis of a new constitution by consensus, and agree on an election date within a few years is no mean achievement. However, whilst many rapid and positive changes are taking place, South Africa continues to be plagued by ceaseless violence. Time and again we have deplored the upsurge of violence which has cost the lives of several of Africa’s most illustrious sons, among them the sorely missed Chris Hani. We therefore welcome wholeheartedly the proposal to establish a national peace force in South Africa, made up of representatives of all parties, which would be entrusted with the task of preventing violence in particularly volatile areas. The creation of this mechanism shows the determination and ardent desire of all in South Africa to resolve outstanding issues and to proceed as planned for violence-free elections in April of next year. In Somalia, we have been distressed by the senseless killing of members of the United Nations Forces as well as Somali civilians. The skirmishes being witnessed in Somalia have regrettably shifted world attention away from the starving millions to manhunts. Women and children dying daily for want of food have been relegated insignificantly to the backstage. Mauritius would like to call on the leaders of the various Somali factions to revert to the agreement reached in Addis Ababa and submit themselves to the peace- keeping process within the context of the recently established Organization of African Unity (OAU) Mechanism for the Prevention, Management and Resolution of Conflicts. Our fervent appeal to all those bent on perpetuating the blood bath in Somalia is to heed the concerns of the international community and indeed act in the interests of the Somali people rather than in their own selfish interests. In our Indian Ocean region, on an issue of direct concern to us, I am happy to say that meaningful dialogue on the Chagos Archipelago is taking place with the United Kingdom authorities. While we hail the success of the United Nations in Cambodia, we cannot but decry the atrocious situation in Angola, where thousands of lives are done away with daily. The question that must be asked is this: to what end will a country depleted of its human resources serve those who, in their desperation to be at the helm of affairs, are ready to sacrifice countless lives and lay waste that very country? We exhort Mr. Savimbi and his UNITA to come to terms with reality and accept the will of the Angolan people as expressed through the ballot box. Outside the African continent, the Middle East, which has witnessed one of the most bitter conflicts of the century, heralds a new era. There is cause for satisfaction in the knowledge that the peace process which began at the Madrid Conference in October 1991 has taken a decisive turn with Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) extending mutual and official recognition to each other. Let us hope that the plan for Palestinian self-rule in Gaza and Jericho is but a prelude to Israel’s complete withdrawal from the occupied territories, a sine qua non for a just and durable peace in the Middle East. As I said earlier, we have reason to rejoice at the thought of more peaceful days in various areas of the world. However, this prospect is marred by other concerns. In Fiji the long-awaited review of the Constitution has not yet taken place, with the unfortunate result that the electoral system is in stagnation. We feel that meaningful changes in the Constitution, as promised by the Fijian authorities, will restore confidence in the Fijian community and will bring about smoother relations in the country for the benefit of all. Mauritius, as a multi-cultural, multi-religious and multi-ethnic society, is willing, in all humility, to share with Fijian authorities the benefits of its own experience of harmonious living and to assist, should it be so wished, in the review of the Constitution. Forty-eighth session - 30 September l993 33 While there are promising developments in the world, the global economy continues to evoke distress. The long- awaited economic recovery in developed countries continues to be inconsistent and uneven; global economic stability remains more elusive than ever. Economic growth and development proper are the only durable, effective and equitable solution to instability and to a host of other associated problems facing the world. We believe, therefore, that it is the concern of the entire world to ponder seriously a new form of multilateralism which would ensure systematic coordination of policies involving all groups of countries. We believe that the rapid internationalization of the world economy points to the urgency to resume North- South dialogue constructively and in a spirit of cooperation and understanding. This dialogue should become an instrument for the promotion of economic growth in developing countries and should address world economic problems practically, instead of remaining a mere slogan interspersed now and again by half-measures aimed more at placating genuine concerns of the South than at evolving a workable long-term policy to bridge the ever-widening gap between the North and the South with immediate, medium-term and long-term solutions to the exasperating problems that plague most developing countries. The efforts of most developing economies are compromised by the consequences of unbridled protectionism, deteriorating commodity prices, acute debt problems, declining financial flows, poverty and unfavourable terms for the transfer of technology. However, in the face of the unfair competition that continues to hold sway on the international trade scene, we should ensure, for example, that the provisions of the Lomé Convention that binds the European Economic Community with the Asian, Caribbean and Pacific group of countries are upheld in any multilateral trade negotiations. We in Mauritius are eager for a balanced outcome of the Uruguay Round and have therefore been extremely disappointed at the scant attention paid to the interests of the developing countries which are vulnerable to shifts in the world economic order. The ongoing negotiations have turned out to be primarily a battle of wits and nerves among the developed countries. We have studied the latest proposals from Geneva with attention, and our frank reaction is one of consternation and dismay. What is proposed is a cataclysmic operation which calls for the system to be completely refounded, the structures that exist to be razed, and the groupings within which we conduct our foreign trade to be dismantled. What is suggested by the major negotiators is a change so convulsive that only the most resilient economies will emerge unscathed. Mauritius considers this situation to be most unfair, unjust and, above all, counter-productive, in the long run. Mauritius, which has an open economy banking on export- led growth, is in favour of free trade and liberalization of exchanges with due regard for the acquired rights of various groups of developing countries. We believe, however, that such change must come about through an orderly, evolutionary process that will give ample time for adaptation, rather than through external imposition which has little consideration for factors other than economic. We therefore appeal to all contracting parties to strive earnestly for a conclusion of the Uruguay Round that will take into account the difficulties of the developing countries and the particular situation of small island States. Both the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development and the General Assembly have recognized the specificities of small island States and the attention that should be given to them in view of the special case they constitute in the interrelation of environment and development. These States are characterized by their limited size in relation to the length of their coastline, limited natural resources, relative geographical isolation, extremely fragile and vulnerable ecosystem and a vast expanse of seas forming part of their territorial limits. For small island nations the ocean and the coastal environment are hence of primary importance and constitute a basic development resource. The record of the United Nations in the social and economic fields is a mixed one. Its contribution to global awareness and respect for human rights and democratic values is undisputed. The Rio and Vienna Conferences were landmarks of global cooperation, despite divergent perceptions on the strengthening of relevant institutions and adoption of concrete measures. Such cooperation could in our view be developed by maintaining a strong role for the Commission on Sustainable Development and by choosing a feasible and incremental approach to implementing the commitments made by Governments under Agenda 21. In this regard, we look forward to the fruitful preparations for the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and its successful outcome in Barbados next year, as the first test case in the ongoing Rio process. We also feel that the General Assembly should seriously 34 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session consider establishing an intersessional mechanism to complete the work of the Preparatory Committee for the Conference. We, for our part, are as committed as any of those who have made the protection of the global environment their leitmotif. We have ratified the Climate Change Convention, the Biodiversity Convention, the Montreal Protocol and the Basel and the Bamako Conventions, among other instruments. Our concern is to safeguard the world and ensure the well-being of those who live in it. (spoke in French) Let me pursue my thoughts on participation by small States in international life by calling attention to the fact that in a few weeks Mauritius will have the honour to host the fifth Summit of French-speaking Countries and by saying a few words about the two principal themes that will be addressed by Heads of State or Government of countries that share the use of the French language: human rights and development; and unity in diversity. Those timely questions illustrate our concerns at a time when the world is undergoing profound change and when most of our countries continue to face challenges of development. My country wants to make its own contribution, however modest, to the thought of the French- speaking world and the rest of the international community so that mankind may see - based on the example of Mauritius - that peaceful coexistence in a multi-cultural, multi-ethnic, multi-linguistic culture is no mere Utopian idea. I wish to thank the Secretary-General, a great friend of the French-speaking world, for having agreed, despite his weighty responsibilities, to honour us with his presence at a Summit that will bring together, at the highest level, delegations from 47 countries and from all continents. (spoke in English) As members will appreciate, we small States are nevertheless doing our best to make our share of contributions in order to bequeath to future generations an environmentally clean world, a world free of want, a world free of war, a world where peace and harmony will prevail. Can we expect the same from those with mightier resources? Let me first offer my delegation’s congratulations to Ambassador Insanally of Guyana on his election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. His elevation to this high office is a fitting tribute to his personal qualities and record of distinguished service to his Government and to the international community. We are confident that under his able guidance we will achieve substantive results in our work. I also wish to express our deep appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Stoyan Ganev of Bulgaria, for the dedicated manner in which he presided over our deliberations during the last session. 24 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session On behalf of the Government and people of Indonesia, I extend a warm welcome to the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic as well as to Macedonia, Eritrea, Monaco and Andorra upon their accession to membership of the United Nations. We look forward to closely cooperating with them. Before proceeding, I should like to convey Indonesia’s profound sympathy and solidarity with the Government and people of India in the wake of the massive human suffering and destruction visited upon them by the recent devastating earthquake. This forty-eighth session of the General Assembly is convened at a time of sweeping global change and transition such as has rarely been experienced in modern history. It has given rise to revived hopes and new opportunities as well as to new risks and uncertainties. As the rigidities of the bipolar world have dissolved, earlier expectations for the emergence of a new world order have now given way to the sober realization that, instead, a new world disorder will be with us for quite some time - a disorder characterized by continuing turbulence, instability and unpredictability and offering an often perplexing panorama of mutually contradictory phenomena and processes. The end of the cold war has led to a new climate in international relations and a number of encouraging trends and developments. Renewed confidence in multilateralism as a viable approach to the resolution of the crucial issues of our time has opened up vast new opportunities for the United Nations and a more positive phase in international cooperation. Better prospects have emerged for substantive progress towards solutions to many regional problems long considered to be intractable. In this context, fruitful cooperation has been established between the United Nations and various regional organizations, which have acted as partners in facilitating the peaceful resolution of conflicts. I therefore wholeheartedly agreed with our Secretary-General when he recently observed that multilateralism today is working more effectively than ever, as it should, for in essence 'Multilateralism is the democracy of international society.' (The New York Times, 20 August 1993, p. A 29, 'Don’t Make the U.N.’s Job Harder') In South Africa the new round of negotiations which began last April has now yielded agreement on the establishment of a multiracial Transitional Executive Council and is progressing towards democratic elections early next year. Elsewhere in Africa, despite formidable difficulties and obstacles, practical frameworks for the resolution of issues have begun to take shape. In Latin America we are gratified to see an end to conflicts and the strengthening of security as well as political, economic and social development. In the Middle East a historic breakthrough has been achieved in the Arab-Israeli peace process. And in the Gulf region, there has been demarcation of the land border between Iraq and Kuwait, under the auspices of the United Nations, which we hope will be a further contribution to the improvement of the political and security environment in that region. Recent developments have brought about a distinct improvement in the overall political climate in the Asia-Pacific region as well. Relations between countries that were once at odds with each other have normalized and are being continually enhanced. In Cambodia the final phase of the peace process based on the Paris Agreements has been consummated and has led to the rebirth of a revitalized and democratic Cambodia. With the dissipation of the East-West confrontation, questions relating to disarmament and security have acquired a totally new dimension. Scenarios of deterrence have become irrelevant, while strategic premises that once guided nuclear-arms control and disarmament efforts have lost their validity. This quantum change has occasioned other encouraging developments. The successful conclusion of START II between the United States and the Russian Federation has significantly reduced the world’s two biggest nuclear arsenals. Last January more than 130 countries signed the Convention for the elimination of chemical weapons, thus proscribing the military use of these instruments of death and mass destruction. Last month, as we observed the thirtieth anniversary of the signing of the partial test-ban Treaty, I was privileged to preside over the special meeting of the States Parties to the Treaty in the context of the Treaty’s Amendment Conference. There it was resolved that the pursuit of a comprehensive nuclear-test ban now taking place in the Amendment Conference and the Conference on Disarmament should be mutually supportive and complementary. We have also welcomed recent positive developments concerning nuclear testing, particularly the de facto moratoriums on nuclear tests observed by the nuclear-weapon States and their renewed commitment to work towards a comprehensive test ban. Especially laudable were the decision of the United States to extend the moratorium on nuclear tests until 1994, the commitment of France not to be the first to resume testing, and the declaration by the Russian Federation of its Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 25 refusal to resume testing even if others did. We hope and expect that China will wish to do likewise. It is indeed of critical importance that steps be taken towards the expeditious conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty, for without it our efforts to extend the Non-Proliferation Treaty at its forthcoming 1995 Review Conference may well be in jeopardy. As the threat of nuclear confrontation between the major nuclear Powers has receded, the dangers of nuclear proliferation now appear to be their major preoccupation. But, surely, the issue of non-proliferation should be addressed in both its horizontal and vertical aspects. It is for this reason that Indonesia has unceasingly stressed the urgent need for a comprehensive nuclear-test ban as the litmus test of our sincerity in securing non-proliferation, apart from the necessity for States to submit themselves to the safeguards of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Another heartening development is the growing prominence of regional dialogues on security. The Regional Forum of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), for one, will afford the ASEAN member States and other South-East Asian nations, as well as the extra-regional Powers, a regular opportunity to exchange views and consult on security issues of common concern.As is pointed out in the Secretary-General’s report, 'An Agenda for Peace', such regional action for peace and security, as a matter of decentralization, delegation and cooperation with the United Nations could contribute to a deeper sense of participation, consensus and democratization in international affairs. These encouraging trends and developments offer unprecedented opportunities for enhanced international cooperation for peace and development. But we should realize that these opportunities are fragile and fleeting in nature and, if not resolutely grasped, may soon be overwhelmed by the plethora of new problems and adverse trends simultaneously emerging on the world scene. Persistent conflict and violence, both between and within States; the virulent resurgence of ethnic strife, both ancient and recent; the menacing rise in religious intolerance; new forms of racism and narrowly conceived nationalism; and the alarming resort to terrorism and blatant aggression: all these combine to obstruct the building of a more peaceful, secure, just and tolerant world. These problems and trends have also caused the disintegration of States and societies, which stands in poignant contrast to the integrative trends, based on growing interdependence, which at the same time have led to the coalescence of States into larger groupings for common economic and political benefits. Moreover, peace and security cannot be sustained unless the very concept of security itself is expanded to embrace such non-military threats as structural underdevelopment and mass poverty, acute resource scarcity and severe environmental degradation, which together with prolonged natural disasters conjure up the looming spectre of massive and uncontrollable cross-border migrations. It is a matter of grave concern that while the United Nations is called upon to shoulder ever-expanding responsibilities in the face of these new challenges, it is at the same time shackled by a deepening financial crisis. If this perennial financial crisis is not quickly resolved, the consequences could be catastrophic for the international community and all its aspirations to peace and development. It is Indonesia’s ardent desire that the United Nations should become fully effective as the central instrument for a new and revitalized international order. Steps must therefore be taken to ensure not only the financial viability of our Organization, but also its fidelity to the dynamics of democracy which demand the fullest participation and engagement of all Members in the work of the Organization. Along with all the non-aligned countries, Indonesia holds that balance is essential in the relationship between the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Secretary-General, in conformity with their respective mandates as enshrined in the Charter. Indonesia and the other non-aligned countries have therefore done their utmost to contribute to the consultations leading to the adoption of General Assembly resolutions 47/120 A and 47/120 B on 'An Agenda for Peace'. The Non-Aligned Movement will continue to contribute to the ongoing consultations on the other aspects of the 'Agenda for Peace' and on the rationalization of the Committee structures of the General Assembly in order to enhance its efficiency and effectiveness. Furthermore, Indonesia believes that restructuring and reform of the Security Council have become imperative in the light of the profound changes that have taken place on the international scene. We realize, however, that such a process should be carried out with caution and circumspection as it impinges upon some of the fundamental aspects of the Organization’s purposes and functions. In 1946, the United Nations had 51 Members, six of which were non-permanent members of the Security Council. In 1965, when the membership had grown to 113, there was a corresponding increase in the non-permanent membership to 10. But despite the fact that more than a quarter of a century has elapsed, during which the membership of the 26 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session United Nations has increased to 183, there has been no proportionate increase in the Council’s membership. A serious review and reappraisal of the Council’s membership is necessary to ensure a more equitable and balanced representation. An expansion of the Council would strengthen it, making it more responsive and relevant to prevailing geopolitical realities and more open to the participation of small and medium-sized States, which constitute the majority in our Organization. Indonesia is also firmly of the view that an increase in membership of the Council should allow for new members which, if they are not to be given the veto power, should at least serve as permanent members. They should join the Council on the basis of a combination of appropriate criteria that would adequately reflect the political, economic and demographic realities of the world today in Asia, Africa and Latin America. Such a judicious approach, in addition to one based solely on equitable geographic distribution, would enhance not only the Council’s representative character but also its moral authority and practical effectiveness. The peace process in the Middle East has finally overcome the paralysis that has gripped it over the past 10 negotiating sessions. Indonesia has welcomed the signing of the Declaration of Principles on Palestinian interim self-government arrangements in the occupied territories as a historic breakthrough in efforts to put an end to decades of armed conflict and confrontation and to achieve a just, lasting and comprehensive settlement. My Government has equally welcomed the agreement on a common agenda in the context of the Jordan-Israeli peace negotiations, as well as the act of mutual recognition by the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel. It is also clearly understood that these first steps on the Palestinian question are an integral and non-prejudicial part of the entire peace process, which envisages a transitional period not to exceed five years and continuing negotiations leading to a permanent settlement based on Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) in particular. We applaud the fact that, with the implementation of these arrangements, almost half a century of Arab-Israeli confrontation and Israeli occupation of Palestine will finally be coming to an end, and that the national and political identity of the Palestinians will at last be universally and irrevocably recognized. Although the significance of these developments cannot be overemphasized, we in Indonesia are aware that obstacles and ambiguities still abound on the long and arduous road towards a just and comprehensive settlement. Above all, the scrupulous implementation of everything that has been agreed upon will be of crucial importance. Hence, there is an obvious need for the United Nations to play an active and effective role throughout the ongoing peace process. Indonesia reiterates its unflinching support for the struggle of the Palestinian people, under the leadership of the PLO, to secure their inalienable rights to self-determination, full sovereignty and independence in their own homeland. Equally, we call upon Israel to withdraw from all illegally occupied Palestinian and Arab lands, including Jerusalem, the Syrian Golan Heights and southern Lebanon. In the tragedy that has engulfed Bosnia and Herzegovina, the international community is faced with the abysmally disturbing prospect of the forcible dismantling of a multi-ethnic, multi-cultural and multi-religious society, the brutal decimation of its people and the gradual diminution of the territory of an independent and sovereign Member State of the United Nations. The Security Council failed to stop aggression and the abhorrent practice of 'ethnic cleansing' because it was unable to defend Bosnia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity while preventing the Bosnians from defending themselves by refusing to lift an ill-conceived arms embargo; as a result, two-thirds of Bosnian territory has now come under Serbian and Croatian occupation. This refusal to allow Bosnia to defend itself and to protect its people from being slaughtered cannot but be regarded as a denial of the right to self-defence under the Charter. Under threat of a continuation of the unequal war, Bosnia today is being coerced into accepting a settlement that would partition its territory along ethnic lines and would practically reduce Bosnia to a cluster of small, incontiguous, landlocked and perpetually vulnerable Muslim enclaves within a so-called union of the republics of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Having initially steadfastly opposed this ethnic partition, its Government under President Izetbegovic has now reluctantly agreed to such a division. However, President Izetbegovic has done so conditionally, as part of a comprehensive agreement that would ensure the legitimate interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of its basic territorial, economic and security needs, as well as with regard to secure access to the sea and between the Republic’s component parts. We cannot but view these developments as representing a blatant case of negotiation under duress and of enforcing peace without justice that may well lead to continuing violence, human suffering and a lack of security. The force of law should not be surrendered to the law of force. 'Ethnic cleansing' should not be rewarded, and we should beware of establishing dangerous precedents that will haunt Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 27 the international community in the future and in other regions of the world. My Government, therefore, will continue to give its full support to the Government and the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina in their legitimate struggle to attain a just and viable settlement, with adequate international guarantees as to the political and territorial integrity of the country. In Somalia, it is gratifying to note that normalcy has been restored in the greater part of the country and that the overall situation has undergone a major transformation. But chaos and anarchy continue to persist, especially in Mogadishu; this has imperiled the success of concerted international efforts to establish a stable and secure environment. We therefore sincerely hope that the leaders of Somalia will expeditiously seek to agree on viable transitional arrangements leading to political reconciliation and to the establishment of a broad-based government. In South Africa, it is heartening to note the determined efforts by the leaders of the majority to engage in peaceful dialogue and negotiations with the minority Government. In a historic step towards ending decades of oppression and the evil of apartheid, the multi-party negotiating forum has scheduled 27 April 1994 as the date for the nation’s first democratic elections leading towards the establishment of a unified, democratic and non-racial South Africa. In Cambodia, in spite of the myriad difficulties it encountered, the peace process has now successfully completed the final stage of implementation of the Paris Agreements. We have wholeheartedly welcomed and endorsed the outcome of the elections conducted under the auspices of the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC). We have also welcomed the completion of the work of the elected Constituent Assembly with the promulgation of a new democratic constitution establishing a constitutional monarchy. And just a few days ago, the Government and people of Indonesia shared the sense of joy and deep satisfaction at the official inauguration of His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk Varman as Head of State, and the formation of the new Government of Cambodia. We all realize, however, that even after the expiry of UNTAC’s mandate and the installation of the new Cambodian Government, the United Nations and the international community should continue to support the people of Cambodia in the reconstruction of their country. Indonesia, together with the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), stands ready to contribute its share to this effort. Indonesia wishes to pay a tribute to His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk for his visionary leadership in achieving this historic watershed in Cambodia’s history, in unifying the Cambodian people and in bringing about national reconciliation. My delegation would like to express its gratitude to the Secretary-General and his Special Representative, Mr. Yasushi Akashi, for their contributions to a just and comprehensive settlement of the Cambodian question. We also pay special homage to all UNTAC personnel and volunteers who sacrificed their lives in the performance of their mission to bring peace to Cambodia. Increasingly, the international community has come to recognize that, in a world dramatically transformed since the end of the cold-war era, lasting peace and security can never be assured in the absence of economic growth and development. Yet despite the profound and positive changes wrought in the political sphere, no corresponding improvements have been registered in the world economy or in international economic relations. It is therefore imperative that international economic cooperation and development are accorded top priority on the international agenda. The crucial development challenges for the 1990s continue to be the reinvigoration of world economic growth, the acceleration of the socio-economic development of the developing countries on a sustainable basis and, above all, the eradication of poverty from the face of the earth. By all accounts, the world economy has failed to achieve substantial improvement over the past year. Belying almost all official forecasts, recession in the developed countries and stagnation in the developing countries have persisted. According to the 1993 World Economic Survey, world output will be outpaced by world population growth rates for the third year in a row. These negative macroeconomic developments have exacted an enormous toll on the developing countries. Consequently, poverty and underdevelopment remain the distinguishing features of the majority of the developing countries. In the most vulnerable economies, these have reached crisis proportions. Of especially grave concern is the prolonged critical situation in Africa, where tens of millions of people remain trapped in abject poverty and social deprivation. In this era of increasing interdependence among nations and escalating globalization, issues and problems, especially those relating to growth and development, have become global in nature and therefore cannot be solved through short-term relief measures or through piecemeal reforms. Therefore, all nations, both in the North and in the South, should forge a new compact on development and, through a democratic partnership, fashion global solutions to these 28 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session problems. Only in that way can we hope to restructure the international economic system, redress its imbalances, and render international economic cooperation more equitable and thus more viable and more mutually beneficial. The non-aligned and other developing countries therefore call for the reactivation of a constructive dialogue between the North and South. But this time, such a dialogue should be based on genuine interdependence, mutuality of interests and of benefits and shared responsibility. The developing countries have expressed their readiness, both at the non-aligned summit in Jakarta last September and in the Standing Ministerial Committee for Economic Cooperation in Bali last May, to engage the developed countries actively in a dialogue on the key issues of the world economy. In this context, President Soeharto of Indonesia, as Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement, in his meeting with then Prime Minister Miyazawa of Japan as Chairman of the Group of Seven on the eve of the G-7 Summit last July, seized the opportunity to convey the non-aligned message, entitled 'An Invitation to Dialogue', to the developed countries. At that meeting, the Chairman of the Group of Seven and the Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement concurred on the need to pursue a comprehensive approach to the integrated issues of trade, investment and debt strategies, including the review of the latter through the Paris Club. In this encouraging first step the initiative by the Non-Aligned Movement to establish a more constructive approach on issues of mutual concern and interest was welcomed by the Group of Seven, a fact that was subsequently reflected in the Tokyo summit economic declaration. Indonesia strongly believes that these positive developments have bolstered the spirit of partnership already articulated and demonstrated at such meetings as the eighth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD VIII) and the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED). This evolving spirit of partnership should now be further fostered and built upon during this session of the Assembly. Obviously, both developed and developing countries have a shared interest in jointly promoting this process across a wide spectrum of key economic issues of common concern. It is important that we in the Assembly carry the process forward in concrete terms, and for this purpose the non-aligned and other developing countries intend to submit a draft resolution aimed at the reactivation of dialogue between the developed and the developing countries. In this context, the Secretary-General should be requested to prepare a report on the modalities and ways and means of reactivating such a dialogue. We believe that this would complement his forthcoming report on an agenda for development, which will contain an analysis and substantive recommendations on ways to enhance the role of the United Nations in the promotion of international cooperation for development. Such a spirit of partnership, lamentably, is conspicuous by its absence from some other forums, particularly the Uruguay Round negotiations, which are still mired in an obdurate impasse. In this regard we sincerely hope that the commitment made by the major developed countries at their recent summit in Tokyo will translate into effective action that will break the stalemate and bring about an equitable and balanced conclusion to the Round. Among the most urgent issues on the global economic agenda is the external debt crisis of the developing countries which, contrary to perception in some quarters, is still far from being resolved and indeed continues to be exacerbated by volatile exchange rate fluctuations in the major currencies. Here too there is an obvious need for a coordinated approach, in the spirit of partnership, involving debtor and creditor nations as well as the international financial institutions. Such an approach should aim at decisive reductions in the bilateral, multilateral and commercial debt burdens, especially of the least developed and other severely indebted developing countries, in a way that would at the same time allow sustained recovery and growth. Regrettably, all too often there has been a one-sided view of the causes of the debt crisis which tends to fault the developing countries for excessive and imprudent borrowing and for the misuse of the resources thus obtained. This view tends to ignore the link between the debt crisis, the paucity of resource flows on appropriate terms, and the adverse turn taken by the world economy since the early 1980s. This in turn explains the insistence on domestic policy reforms on the part of the debtor countries as the principal remedial instrument. The truth is that the debt crisis of the developing countries is a manifestation of the shortcomings of the international system in providing access to adequate longterm resources on satisfactory terms. The gap was filled by private banks, lending on inappropriate terms. The crisis was triggered by deflationary policies introduced by the developed countries. Debt-servicing became an oppressive burden on the borrower countries when export earnings declined following the collapse of commodity prices and growing restrictions on market access to developed countries. Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 29 It is true that for a few middle-income countries the debt crisis may be largely over. The same can be said for the international commercial banks which in the past provided these countries with huge amounts of loans. However, for many low-income countries as well as lowermiddle-income countries the debt crisis is far from over. Thus around 50 severely indebted countries continue to experience great difficulties in servicing their debt, at a terrible cost to their economies striving for recovery and development. Urgent action is needed and debt relief for these countries should receive the highest priority, in particular for those among the 50 countries which are the least developed countries. To avoid any misunderstanding, Indonesia does not regard itself as being among those 50 countries. The Non-Aligned Movement has made this issue one of its priorities in South-South cooperation and a programme is at present being developed to extend concrete assistance to these countries to augment their efforts at debt management. The debt crisis must be considered as one of the factors that led to the social crisis of the 1990s, for the latter is clearly a function of poverty and underdevelopment which in turn have given rise to internal political instability in many countries. In the efforts of the United Nations system and various countries to address the social crisis, new and valuable insights have recently been gained. It is irrefutable that in developing countries structural changes have exacted an exorbitant human cost. The developed countries too have not been spared from this crisis, as the prolonged recession has greatly strained their social security systems. Clearly, therefore, the social crisis also calls for a global approach, and indeed a consensus is growing that development and international cooperation 'should put people first'. Indonesia shares this view and fully commits itself to the active participation of the people in the decision-making processes involved in development, and to the protection and promotion of human rights in all their manifestations, including the right to development. We therefore look forward to participating actively in such forthcoming conferences as the World Summit for Social Development in 1995 and the World Conference on Women in the same year. The World Conference on Population and Development to be held in Cairo early next year should provide an occasion for the international community to cooperate on the basis of the essential linkages between development, population and environmental protection. The proposal to convene an international conference on financing for development should be given serious consideration. We anticipate the forthcoming report by the Secretary-General on an agenda for development will mark an important milestone in international cooperation for development. With this report we hope that development will finally be accorded as much emphasis as that given to the political agenda. A short time ago, the World Conference on Human Rights was convened in Vienna. Surpassing most expectations, the Conference adopted a Declaration and Programme of Action which affirmed, among other things, the principles of universality, indivisibility and non-selectivity in the promotion and protection of human rights. We are heartened by the fact that the Vienna Conference recognized that in the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the significance of national and regional particularities and the various historical, cultural and religious backgrounds of States must be taken into account. Approved by consensus, the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action represents a new paradigm from which to promote human rights in a non-selective, cooperative and balanced manner. That being the case, the use of human rights as political conditionalities for economic cooperation is entirely against the agreements reached in Vienna. This session of the General Assembly has been asked to consider the establishment of a post of high commissioner for human rights. It is Indonesia’s considered view that such consideration should lay emphasis on the practical feasibility of establishing this post and on whether such action would in reality and practice enhance the promotion and protection of human rights as called for in the United Nations Charter. For it may be more beneficial to direct our attention to enhancing the authority and efficacy of the existing mechanisms and bodies, particularly the Centre for Human Rights in Geneva. The end of the cold war has opened a new chapter in the history of humankind, a chapter full of portents as well as bright promise. The essential text of this chapter is yet to be written, in this Assembly and in the various international forums where crucial issues are taken up. As the principal international institution for multilateral cooperation and negotiation, the United Nations has a central role in the shaping and fulfilment of that promise. All nations, developed and developing alike, can and should have a part in realizing that promise through constructive dialogue and democratic cooperation. In the course of this 30 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session endeavour, the vision and aspirations of the developed and the developing countries can be forged into a broad and dynamic partnership that would effectively address the problems of today and successfully confront the challenges of tomorrow. We hope that this process has now made a modest but significant beginning. Throughout the half century of its history the United Nations has never rallied a greater number of Member States and has never played a more prominent role in global and regional international relations, than it does today, and it has never borne the brunt of such problems as it bears today. This, the forty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly, is being held in an atmosphere of great hope and of even greater commitments facing the Organization which, in this post-cold-war time, following the historical collapse of communism and multinational State communities in Europe, is becoming the cardinal guardian of global peace and security. The fall of Soviet and other European Communist and totalitarian systems has reinforced hope and provided the prerequisites for the comprehensive democratization of the world while simultaneously raising the question of what kind of multilateralism is required and possible in the contemporary world. Of no lesser importance is the question of the new role of the United Nations at a time when many new States are coming into being and when the strengthening of global peace is becoming the fundamental ideology of mankind. The United Nations must shoulder the responsibility for a more equitable global order to take hold in every corner of the world. But, in order to achieve this goal, one must thoroughly review multilateral mechanisms as well as the activity of international organizations under conditions of the emergence of many new States, the end of bipolarity and the strengthening of the polycentric foundation of the world. The process of disintegration of the Soviet communist system, which began with the fall of the Berlin Wall, led towards a fundamental shift in relations, not only within Europe, but also on a global scale. It has redirected and drafted new American-Russian and American-European relations. The competitive wars of the great Powers bent on gaining influence and predominance in the Third World have almost died away, but the focus of regional crises has now moved to Eastern and South-Eastern Europe and to the area of the former Soviet Union, because of the profound political, national, social and economic changes sweeping those areas. International factors, primarily West European and North American countries, were taken unawares by the depth and speed of these historical changes. Their initial disorientation turned, subsequently, into a renewal of dormant traditional competition for spheres of influence in changing circumstances. On the international scene, the ultimate result has been disunity and the inefficiency of the most responsible international factors in dealing with volatile regional crises, but such developments have also jeopardized the European integration processes already under way. The fundamental values and goals of European regional organizations now face a serious test and a radical review of their mission. The new system of European collective security is yet to take hold, and the same holds true for the system of general, global security. This is a matter of the greatest importance because the security of small countries has become the key to the stability of each region and of the overall international system. The world has been slow to accept, and slower to understand, the changes involving the national and State emancipation of old and new European and Asian nations, and it has recognized their international identity with reluctance. The world has found it hard to grasp the at-first untenable contradiction implied in the fact that we have entered a period, in the development of human society and international relations, of the broadest national individualization based on a most comprehensive civilizational integration. Even worse, the world has not been ready to face the difficulties and the temporarily destabilizing consequences of such changes, which will ultimately lead to the full democratization of international relations. The view that the collapse of communist systems and of Soviet domination over nations in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe had resolved the problem of regional and international stability was wrong. There was a similar lack of understanding of the fact that the process of internal and international democratization cannot stop at the mere democratization of political systems, and that it also inevitably leads to the disintegration of multinational State formations. This was the logical sequence of political democratization and national emancipation. There can no longer be any doubt today about the fact that the ever-increasing functional integration of the world was the very prerequisite of national independence and internal sociopolitical and international democratization. Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 7 This has only seemingly been a contradictory process. Specifically, because of their endangered position, small nations and their States are anxious to preserve their own State, cultural and economic identity, and this sustains not only the variety but also the very development of the world. It should be remembered that positive nationalism, that is, the national-democratic movement of oppressed nations in Eastern Europe and of oppressed stateless nations in other parts of the world, deserves the greatest credit for the collapse of the communist systems. Having achieved their national sovereignty and the independence of their State, small nations, in their own interest, became supporters of 'civilizational' integration and democratization. This is the reason why one of the most important goals of the international community today should be the successful resolution of problems affecting complete regional and international integration of States having emerged after the disintegration of communist systems in former multinational States such as the Soviet Union, Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia. The new world order which is being created so laboriously, but also of necessity, can no longer be based only on the ascendancy of the anti-fascist coalition or of the nuclear Power club. Half a century after the historic victory over fascism, new economic and political realities have come into being, and the countries against which the anti-fascist alliance was directed cannot bear the liability of the past indefinitely. Germany, Japan, Italy and the countries within their international political spheres during the Second World War are today democratic countries with huge developmental power, which is also obviously beneficial to the world. Similarly, the fundamental political and other eventful changes taking place in Russia are transforming that country, currently in the throes of dramatic upheaval, from a former Stalinist threat to international peace and order into, we hope, a constructive component of global order built on new foundations of equality and partnership of nations and States for the sake of mutual benefit and the stability of peace. The balance of military blocs, weapons and ideologies established during the cold war was only seemingly a stable system, because it was actually founded on repression or dependency, first of all at the expense of small States or stateless nations. Today, to quote Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, 'Multilateralism is the democracy of international society.' (The New York Times, 20 August 1993, p. A29, 'Don’t Make the U.N.’s Hard Job Harder') Multilateralism, certainly! But of what kind? We must tend towards a multilateralism that will help us - after a gory history of strife, first between dynasties, then between States and, finally, between imperialist or ideological-military blocs - to avoid war between incompatible civilizations. A brutal entanglement of these civilizational contrasts is taking place precisely in the area of the former Yugoslavia, threatening to polarize greater areas along the lines of separation and conflict between civilizational-religious blocs. We should tend, instead, to internal, regional and global relations in which these civilizational spheres will blend productively and reinforce their identity through peaceful competition, instead of wasting their precious potential on mutual confrontation and annihilation. A new multilateralism capable of coping with the epoch-making changes of our time also calls for a thorough reform of the United Nations. This implies, primarily, the strengthening of international law, but also the development of mechanisms which will help the United Nations and its agencies to function more effectively and to be depoliticized, less costly and more receptive to ideas, influences and supervision. In particular, the role and responsibility of the Security Council in dealing with questions concerning international peace and stability should be given greater emphasis. Over past years there has been considerable progress in the operation of the Security Council, and the use of the veto has almost become obsolete. Nevertheless, certain Security Council decisions are still excessively influenced by the national interests of its members, the permanent ones in particular. Accordingly, we need a climate of cooperation in the Security Council that will prevent its being used as an extended instrument of the foreign policy of individual Security Council members. Croatia supports extension of the permanent membership of the Security Council, which will reflect the economic and political realities of the present-day world and assure a balanced regional representation in the Council. Croatia also endorses the limitation of the right and practice of veto. The major crises of our time, such as the one in the area of the former Yugoslavia, should be used as precious lessons for more effective and concerted action by the Security Council. We also believe that a high degree of responsibility and authority in decisions concerning the major directions of global economic and social development should also be vested in the Economic and Social Council, so that its 8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session decisions, in specific areas of decision-making, would have executive force similar to that of Security Council decisions. Although it would be difficult to envisage the General Assembly assuming the role of a global parliament to the detriment of the sovereignty of Member States, a clearer delimitation of authority among the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council would nevertheless be required. A more articulated link with United Nations agencies, which ought to improve their efficiency and prevent the political blocking of certain processes, is also necessary. However, the enhanced role of the Security Council, which we are advocating, should not affect the authority of the General Assembly, which is a forum for the manifestation of the views of the vast majority of small countries Members of the United Nations. As a form of present-day democracy, multilateralism should provide the foundation for the stability of the new and, in every respect, democratic world order. However, while striving to turn our global Organization into a most consonant orchestra which will provide for the full expression of the voices of all differences and contrasts, natural-permanent and secondary-provisional ones alike, we must never lose sight of uncontroverted historical experience - namely, that the role and, hence, the responsibility, of the small and the greatest components and lines of force in international life are not and cannot be identical throughout all events, times and circumstances. Because of this we should continue to build global organization on the efficient activity of the Security Council and, within it, on the role and responsibility of its permanent members. The central point with reference to the efficient role of the Security Council, and of the entire United Nations, is the need to develop a new foundation for peace mediation. Established in cold-war times, the mechanism was adjusted to the need to prevent the outbreak and spread of conflict between the blocs, or between their dependants in the third world, with long-term freezing of conflict as the goal. Today peace mediation requires a much more active and flexible approach, first of all because of the need and possibility of preventive action, but also because of a selective use of force in the implementation of peace agreements and Security Council decisions. The example of my country, the Republic of Croatia, and that of the neighbouring Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina pinpointed most exactly the two fundamental weaknesses of the existing peace-keeping-force model and mandate. First, the classic mandate, the freezing of the conflict by sustaining a cease-fire, does not resolve the conflict but, rather, creates further complications. Second, as has become manifest, certain countries whose forces are engaged in the implementation of the multilateral peace mandate are trying, through the members of their peace-keeping units and negotiation mediators, to pursue their national policies and not the policy of the Security Council. The reform of the overall peace-operation mechanism requires, first and foremost, a more efficient use of coordinated instruments of diplomatic, economic, political and military pressure and consistency in the implementation of the peace-keeping-force mandate. Such an approach, which also implies the selective use of force, not only could have prevented the escalation of the conflict in the former Yugoslavia but also reduced peace-keeping-forces’ casualties to fewer than have actually been the case with the present static mandate, which does not offer adequate protection even to the peace-keeping force itself. In recent years extensive positive, but also negative, experience has been acquired in the conduct of peace-keeping operations in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Somalia and Cambodia. It has been found that peace-keeping forces should be more qualified and better trained and equipped for special missions in each peace- keeping operation. The United Nations should also have greater authority in the sensitive conduct of peace-keeping operations. This suggests the need for the establishment of already well-trained and prepared national military contingents to be available, with all their facilities, to the global community. Under the current system, in the best of cases several months are required for unit selection and the provision of necessary facilities for the deployment of peace-keeping forces in specific areas, which results in delayed action and substantially affects the conditions of peace-keeping-mandate implementation. It has also become evident that regional organizations, regional military alliances and systems in particular, can in the majority of cases be the main and most efficient mechanism to implement peace-keeping operations. Peace-keeping operations are being used at an ever-increasing rate to prevent disastrous humanitarian situations or to alleviate their consequences, but they will still have a role to play in political mediation and organization of the basic State institutions, as well as in supervising political and economic reconstruction in the initial period. Such United Nations operations of an increasingly more comprehensive scope call for the cooperation of the entire international community in the implementation of regularly highly complex missions. The international community must act through the Security Council whenever there is obvious aggression against a Member State, as well as in cases where international security is seriously threatened. Selective interventionism Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 9 mainly has an adverse effect on the reputation and credibility of the United Nations. Economic sanctions are becoming, at an ever-increasing rate, an instrument of international pressure in the absence of political will to use stronger means to implement Security Council resolutions or to protect basic interests of Member States and promote international law standards. In our view, sanctions can have an effect only if combined with other instruments of international pressure and isolation. However, what is also required is a more efficient system of compensating those countries which subsequently have to bear, with no guilt on their part, the burden of sanctions against specific regimes. A more effective system is also needed to supervise the implementation of sanctions through the enforcement of 'sanctions imposed for violations of sanctions'. In the opposite case, the sanctions, to be sure, will have a long-term effect, but before the ultimate objective is achieved the highest price will be paid by the innocent population of the affected country, by people who cannot deal by themselves with the internationally censured regime. The democratization of international relations and a new multilateralism also imply a greater commitment of the international community to the safeguarding and respect of human rights, the punishment of the violators of humanitarian and war law and the protection of the ecological balance of the planet. Although we uphold the view that the defence of cardinal rights and international law standards cannot take precedence over the sovereignty of United Nations Member States, regimes and individuals that violate such rights and standards may not be allowed to hide behind the principle of 'non-interference with internal matters of countries'. Balance should be sought in reconciling the two approaches, and the ways in which, and conditions under which, international mechanisms can be set in motion ought to be codified in the safeguarding of universal human rights and interests in order to preserve peace and the international order. Because of its own experience - the orchestrated military revolt of part of the Serbian population organized from Belgrade, resulting in the occupation of one quarter of Croatia’s territory - the Republic of Croatia supports cooperation with the international community in the identification and incorporation of the highest standards of protection of the Serbian minority into Croatian legislation. We accept international supervision of their implementation in the interest of inter-ethnic reconciliation, confidence-building and the future stability of the country and the greater area. Of course, the responsibility which the United Nations should assume at an ever-increasing rate in crisis areas, relief operations, protection of the environment and assurance of balanced development, as well as in other issues of general interest, requires vast financial resources. It is not surprising, therefore, that the regular budget and the financing of peace-keeping operations have assumed such key importance among the matters to be discussed at this, the forty-eighth, session of the General Assembly. Part of these outlays can be reduced by a more economical use of existing resources and by improving the efficiency of the United Nations system itself. We should prevent United Nations actions from becoming an end in themselves, and avenues should also be explored towards greater programming coordination with other organizations and initiatives within the international system. Greater care ought to be exercised in preventing all instances of abuse and corruption within the United Nations system, because they not only increase the cost but also undermine the reputation of the global Organization. The global community is saddled with many adversities and crises, but the international order is nevertheless becoming more and more settled. We are encouraged by the fact that, after half a century of Israeli-Arab conflict, the way has finally been paved towards more stable peace in the Middle East. This example can also be instructive with regard to the solution of the crisis in the former Yugoslavia. It demonstrates the practical use and advantage of carefully worded agreements which are possible especially when their resolution actively involves the leading world power as well. Such cases call on both sides for statesmanship and courage in making concessions for the sake of peace and require realism in the assessment of national interests with regard to objective international circumstances and the particular historical moment. The statesmen involved, and the responsible officers of the global Organization, are expected to be reasonable and principled, determined but also moderate, in a way allowing for no narrow-minded radicalism, but tending rather to seek the most favourable solution for the protection of peace and the international order. We are also encouraged to see that conditions are being established for the withdrawal of the peace-keeping forces from Cambodia early next year. This gives us hope that a similar process will also be completed in the Republic of Croatia in the immediate future, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the nearest possible future. We welcome the evident progress attained in the transfer of power to the black majority in the South African 10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session Republic. We hope that the sporadic cases of racial and political violence in that country are only aftershocks following the major political shifts towards racial tolerance and democratization of political life in that country. We are convinced that the international community will also find the means to succeed in the already initiated and then halted process of political stabilization in Angola and Mozambique. We also believe that resoluteness of the United Nations is also required in the area of the former Yugoslavia, just as it has been in Somalia, in terms of selective use of force, protection of the peace force and assurance of relief. But in Somalia as well, the international community must also assume broader responsibilities in the restoration of the basic functions of the State and in the establishment of law and order in that country. It is obvious that differences in the approach to the solution of problems which frustrate the efficiency of the peace-keeping forces stem not from operative but from political reasons. The Republic of Croatia welcomes the efforts of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe, the European Community and the United Nations to mediate peace in the conflicts between or within the former Soviet republics, and we express our readiness to take part in these peace efforts. Fortified by its own experience, Croatia will be ready, especially after the end of the war in the Republic, to contribute even more to the new mission of peace-keeping operations throughout the world. As a country of outstanding natural attractions, but also of a very vulnerable environmental system, the Republic of Croatia will consistently implement the commitments of the Action Plan - Agenda 21 - the conclusions of the Conference on the Environment and Development and the Rio declarations. Croatia believes that support of the programme of sustainable development is the proper way towards the gradual bridging of the growing developmental gap between the North and the South, which is a permanent source of political and social instability and ecological imbalance in specific areas and in the world as a whole. The crisis in the area of the former Yugoslavia is the most difficult crisis in the world today, and it cannot be resolved without a more determined role on the part of the international community. Past mediation efforts have been shown to be insufficient because they were limited by a mandate lacking firmness, but also rendered more difficult by the diverse political interests of individual external forces. It has not been sufficient to try to freeze the conflict, send in humanitarian aid and engage in empty threats, thus allowing the crisis to deteriorate to the point where 'everybody would get tired of waging war' and then agree to a political settlement. The initial aggression of the Yugoslav communist army, Serbia and Montenegro, for the conquest of Croat and Muslim territories was not countered by determined steps, and the consequences of such a policy have been disastrous. They have included first and foremost the terrible destruction and 'ethnic cleansing' in areas conquered by the Serbs, and then the extension of the conflict to the Muslim and Croat sides as well, the struggle for the remaining territory, the incessant growth of the death toll, and the ever swelling tide of refugees, which has now exceeded the figure of one million agonized men, women and children. In the Republic of Croatia the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) mandate achieved certain initial results in putting a stop to fighting and providing for the withdrawal of the Yugoslav army. However, the mandate has been misused by the Serbian extremist insurgents and their promoters, the Belgrade expansionists, to freeze territorial gains, continue 'ethnic cleansing,' and consolidate occupation which has assumed forms of terrorism even at the expense of the local Serbian population. The international community has allowed the Serbian side to completely ignore all Security Council resolutions and other agreements, in spite of the fact that the modalities of resolving the conflict have been clearly and well defined: complete cease-fire and the disarmament of Serbian paramilitary units; the return of all refugees and displaced persons to their homes; the normalization of traffic and supply; the guarantee of extensive ethnic rights to the Serbian minority within the scope of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia; the gradual reinstatement of Croatian authorities and of law and order in the occupied areas; confidence-building measures; scheduling of elections for local self-government authorities; and general amnesty for all persons not found guilty of war crimes. Owing to the lack of determination on the part of the international community in the implementation of the UNPROFOR mandate, the Republic of Croatia has found itself, through no fault of its own, in a position where pressure is being brought to bear on it, including even threats of sanctions, because it is trying to deal with its vital communications problems, or prevent Croatian towns from being shelled from areas under the protection of the peace-keeping forces. Thus, Croatia is being taken to task for reinstating civilian traffic across the Maslenica Strait, on which a million people in southern Croatia and parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina depend. Croatia is first urged to Forty-eighth session - 28 September l993 11 negotiate and normalize relations with Belgrade, and then accused of doing so. Meanwhile, nothing efficient is being done to disarm Serbian paramilitary units and to prevent Serbian extremism and terrorism in the United Nations protected areas. One of the basic concepts of our policy has been the guarantee of the most comprehensive rights for all minorities - including of course the Serbian minority as a whole, and particularly in the areas of Croatia in which the Serbs constituted a majority before the war - in the interest of the future permanent stability of the Croatian State and of its role within the international order. However, at the same time the Serbian insurgents must provide for the return of hundreds of thousands of displaced Croats and other non-Serbian citizens to their homes in the areas under the protection of the peace-keeping forces. Belgrade must finally recognize the Republic of Croatia and its borders, as the whole world has already done. Croatia cannot tolerate a situation in which the Serbian minority abuses its rights in order to break up the Croatian State or to create the legal framework for the secession of territories under local self-government and their annexation to the 'federation of Serbian lands'. This would mean the realization of the Greater Serbia idea, which was precisely the underlying motive of the present war against Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro must remain in force until peace is achieved in Croatia, too, and not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as is also provided for by the respective Security Council resolutions. Croatia resolutely urges the consistent and effective implementation of all Security Council resolutions - no more, but no less either. Croatia has shown extreme patience within the scope of endeavours for a peaceful settlement of the conflict with the Serbian minority, orchestrated during the time the former socialist Yugoslavia was disintegrating and the democratic State of Croatia was being established. However, Croatia cannot tolerate indefinitely the occupation of its territories, the pressure of the hundreds of thousands of displaced persons from Croatian areas, and a situation in which the State is split. Croatia can no longer be forced to accept the fourth extension of the UNPROFOR mandate if the mission of the peace-keeping forces is not specified in more resolute terms, and if the Serbs are not given an ultimatum to implement the Vance Plan and all relevant Security Council resolutions. The means used to bring about Serbian withdrawal from Igman and Bjelasnica - military strikes - must also be applied in Croatia. The Republic of Croatia is not pleased with the latest report of the United Nations Secretary-General, which suggests the extension of the UNPROFOR mandate in Croatia by six months, with no essential changes in respect of the present mandate. If the UNPROFOR mandate is not amended within the next 48 hours to ensure energetic implementation of the relevant resolutions and other documents of the Security Council, the Republic of Croatia will be forced to renounce the United Nations peace-keeping operation on its territory and to request units to abandon Croatia not later than 30 November 1993. Maintenance of the status quo, which is nothing but the occupation of part of Croatian territory, and the inefficiency of UNPROFOR are detrimental to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and to the normalization of its economic and overall life. Croatia is prepared to resolve the key problem of its existence by all necessary means and at any cost - by negotiated agreement and settlement if possible, but, if necessary, by resort to legitimate means of restoring law and order, with full observance of laws governing war and humanitarian affairs, in areas currently suffering the anarchy of Serbian terrorist and paramilitary troops. With its involvement in the area of the former Yugoslavia, UNPROFOR has borne a great burden and has suffered considerable casualties, operating in extremely difficult circumstances. Croatia is grateful to all UNPROFOR members who have performed their duty bravely and honourably, risking their personal safety and their lives, and helping thousands of suffering people. Croatia does not oppose UNPROFOR, but it can no longer tolerate the consequences of the Force’s inefficiency and its persistent circumventing of relevant Security Council resolutions. The implementation of these provisions will affect not only the existence of the Republic of Croatia but also the basic credibility of the United Nations. By renouncing the UNPROFOR mandate, Croatia does not close its doors to any humanitarian action or to the possibility of a North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) operation in the former Yugoslavia. On the contrary, Croatia welcomes the readiness of NATO to assume the role of principal guarantor of peace and stability in this part of Europe, and will actively support its units in the implementation of the peace settlement. We also look forward to seeing NATO involved in the implementation of the Vance plan. At the same time, Croatia’s door is being opened wide to all relief and human rights organizations, European Community monitors and UNPROFOR civilian logistic personnel engaged in the provision of relief to the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session International factors - I refer to the European Community and the United Nations - have brought the negotiations on resolutions of the crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina to the settlement currently proposed. It should be remembered that the Republic of Croatia and the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina were the first to support all serious peace plans put forward by the international community. However, the indecision and inconsistency of the international community have allowed both the Serbian and the Muslim representatives to reject or to flout these plans. Even the proclamation of independence of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina would have been impossible without the agreement of the Croats, expressed through the 1992 referendum. Without the resistance put up by the Croats, no part of Bosnia and Herzegovina would have been defended, in the beginning, from Serbian aggression. We were the first to recognize the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the first to send an ambassador to Sarajevo. The Republic of Croatia has contributed more to the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to the care of Bosnian refugees, than have all other countries combined, and that situation continues despite the aggression waged by the Muslim army against Croatian populated areas in central Bosnia and against territory envisaged for the Croatian Republic within the Union of Republics of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In view of past developments, there are no longer any completely equitable and clear-cut solutions to the complex Bosnian crisis. If peace is to be achieved, all the parties must accept political and territorial compromise. The Croats in Bosnia have made major concessions for the sake of peace. They have lost the most, especially in Posavina and Central Bosnia, where the majority of the Croatian population used to live. They have agreed to accept 18 per cent of territory although the previous Vance-Owen plan envisaged a share of about 27 per cent. Indeed, for strategic, political and psychological reasons, the Croatian side cannot agree to any further concessions. It should be remembered that in 1948 the Croats accounted for 23.9 per cent of the Bosnian population. That proportion declined as a result of the pressure of the hegemonistic policies of the Serbs and then of the Muslims. In the search for a solution, the same principles must be applied throughout. One might ask, for instance, why Mostar, along with Sarajevo, is being singled out for European Community supervision. Why not Banja Luka and Zenica or Vare, where the Croatian population is struggling for survival? What about the fact that, as a result of Serbian and then Muslim aggression, two thirds of Catholic parishes in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been occupied or completely cleansed of the Croats who lived there for centuries? The international community must face facts and problems in their entirety. It must identify ways of halting Serbian aggression, but also means of protecting the Croatian people from the attempts of extremists to set up a Bosnian Islamic state, mostly at the expense of the Croats. Nevertheless, I am pleased to report, here and now, that hostilities between the Croat and Serbian sides in Bosnia and Herzegovina have stopped and, in particular, that, on my initiative and with the good offices of Turkey, political agreement has been reached between the Croats and the Muslims concerning the cessation of hostilities and the provision of the prerequisites for permanent peace and cooperation. We believe that the purpose of peace would be served by NATO’s energetic assumption of the chief role in implementing the peace plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina and in solving the problem of the United Nations protected areas in Croatia, with the United Nations assuming responsibility for implementation of the peace settlement. For geopolitical, historical and economic reasons, as well as for the sake of transport links, the Republic of Croatia is interested in the closest future cooperation with the Union of Republics of Bosnia and Herzegovina. By the same token, the Republic of Croatia supports the normalization of relations with all States that emerged following the disintegration of Communist Yugoslavia, on the basis of mutual recognition. This is not only in the interests of the peoples of these States; it is also a prerequisite for the establishment of peace and for the creation of a stable international order in this part of the world. I should like first to say, Mr. President, that France is pleased to see the General Assembly meeting under your guidance this year. Your election is just testimony to the esteem in which the international community holds your country. It also affords us the opportunity to welcome the 'silent revolution' that has been taking place in Latin America over the past few years, which has put many States back on the path of national reconciliation, democracy and economic development. 22 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The year which is ending will have been as rich in promise as it has been fraught with danger. Conflicts once thought to be insoluble suddenly seem to be on track towards resolution. On behalf of my country, I should like to pay tribute to the men in the Middle East, in South Africa and in Cambodia who found the courage to take the path towards reconciliation and peace: Yitzhak Rabin and Yasser Arafat, F.W. de Klerk and Nelson Mandela, His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk and all those, known and unknown, who accompanied or even preceded them on this courageous path. The agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) opens the way to the settlement of a conflict which some had despaired of seeing resolved, and makes it possible to conceive of a radically new future for the entire region. This revolution gives us new reason to believe in human will and encourages us never to consider the hope for peace as a chimera. From us, it calls for collective effort, including financial effort, in order to translate this hope into reality as soon as possible. It also invites us to erase the aftermath of conflicts as reflected in past resolutions of this Assembly. But the end of what was for years called the balance of terror has also led to new kinds of uncertainty and disorder. Russia is going through a political and economic transition that could lead to serious internal difficulties, as the events of the past few days have shown. In that context, I should like to reaffirm France’s support for the process of democratization and reform courageously undertaken by President Yeltsin. In the former Yugoslavia war has been raging for two years, with its attendant death, suffering and destruction. Other regions in Africa, Central Asia, the Balkans and the Caucasus are falling or could fall victim to this new type of conflict, resulting from the break-up of States and the resurgence of nationalist, ethnic or religious passions. Elsewhere, States put under a sanctions regime by our Organization for failing to comply with the obligations of international law or with commitments they have made persist in refusing to take the measures that would permit them to regain their place in the international community. Almost everywhere, the proliferation of weapons is a fearsome factor for instability. In the face of the promises and dangers I have just outlined, France bases its foreign policy on a few guiding principles. Whether they are found reassuring or disturbing, I should like to recall them to the Assembly. The first principle is the desire for independence. France has amply demonstrated that it is ready to act in concert with others where the ends are genuinely collective. But, needless to say, it does so in complete sovereignty. Exercising freedom of judgement and choice, France refuses to follow the orthodoxy of the moment or to succumb to pressures resulting from relative material strengths. The second principle, shared by many in this Hall, is a commitment to our fundamental interests. Like every other State in this Organization, France has its own strategic, commercial and cultural interests which it seeks to preserve. While we are open to negotiation and to the mutual concessions it implies, we cannot be made to give up anything we consider to be an essential element of our security, our prosperity or our culture. The third principle is devotion to law and justice. Beyond its own interests, France aspires to help ensure that certain fundamental principles first inspired by France, among others, triumph throughout the world: the right of peoples to self-determination and security, human rights and the right to development. Finally, one last aspect of our diplomacy, in the service of the others, is France’s perseverance, and at times stubbornness. May I recall our resolve - despite obstacles - in opening up the path that would eventually lead to the restoration of peace in Cambodia, and our determination to see institutional legality restored in Haiti. These unchanging principles dictate the two main lines of the policy which my country hopes to implement on the international stage. Our ambition concerns Europe first of all. Whatever the present difficulties, whatever the prevailing scepticism, France will not falter in its resolve to build with its neighbours a strong, prosperous, democratic and generous Europe, capable of making its voice heard and of contributing to world peace. This is an irrevocable choice for us because the peoples of Europe need a plan that brings them together, and European unity is the only goal that measures up to the values they share. Moreover, the building of a united Europe is the only way to avert the dangers threatening our continent at this time: dangers arising from the resurgence of the most implacable forms of nationalism and from the persistence of unacceptable economic disparities. Europe’s success will serve as an example for other regions of the world as did in its day the Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 23 reconciliation between France and Germany sought by General de Gaulle and Chancellor Adenauer. I have already spoken of the conflict raging in the former Yugoslavia. France has spared no effort to put an end to it. As you know, France initiated most of the Security Council resolutions designed to discourage or punish aggressors. Together with its partners, France provides an essential part of the humanitarian aid sent there. Its soldiers represent the largest of the contingents made available to the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR), and more than a dozen of them have paid for their generous presence there with their lives. It has so far been the only country to send reinforcements in accordance with resolution 836 (1993) in order to contribute to the security of the protected areas and the Muslim populations there. France was, as well, the first nation to deplore the inadequacy of the actions taken by the international community in regard to the former Yugoslavia. The efforts it has made entitled it to tell those who have been free with their advice and lessons that they might be better heard if they were agreeing, when they are able to do so, to commit their own troops to the field. Once in contact with the realities of the situation, they would undoubtedly better appreciate the fact that between negotiated peace and chaos there is no middle ground. Let us learn the lessons of this painful experience. It is essential for us to acquire the means to avoid the repetition of such a conflict, and to ensure, without waiting for future progress in the construction of a united Europe, that preventive diplomacy, military openness and respect for the rule of law prevail wherever latent tensions remain. This is the intent of the proposed pact on European stability which France has submitted to its European partners and to which it would like to associate Russia, as well as its allies across the Atlantic, Canada and the United States. Europe is, of course, far from being the sole horizon of France’s action. My country has long-standing, close relations with many parts of the world. For the long-term organization of the international scene in the aftermath of the cold war, France naturally turns to the United Nations. Because it believes in the mission of the United Nations, France wants a strong and effective Organization. This goal involves, first of all, the reforming of the Security Council. Its enlargement, which has become necessary today in the light of the world’s evolution, must be envisioned as the way to increase its effectiveness. France understands and supports the aspirations of some of its partners to exercise their international responsibilities more actively, provided that they are ready to commit themselves in the field. However, the expansion of the Council should not be achieved at the expense of one or another group of States; in particular, it must preserve the capacity of the developing countries to make their voices heard. In our view, this is an essential requirement. In their wisdom, those who drafted the Charter recognized that only a group of limited size could take prompt measures to restore peace when confronted with an urgent crisis. We should therefore take care that the projected enlargement does not lead to a paralysis of the Council. France hopes that at its present session the General Assembly will decide to open discussions on ways to reform the Security Council. A solution will have to be found that reconciles the will to reform with the desire for effectiveness. This is why enlargement, in our view, will have to be decided according to a formula combining new permanent members and additional non-permanent members. The Secretary-General is a key institution of the United Nations. France would like him to be given the means to carry through the innovative action he has undertaken. Allow me to pay a tribute to the energy, authority and courage with which our Secretary-General is carrying out his missions. France approves not only of his political initiatives but also of his tireless efforts to rationalize the functioning of our Organization. We must combat the proliferation of institutions, which consumes our resources and threatens the coherence of our efforts. We must improve the coordination of activities linked to development and restore to the Economic and Social Council its role as a provider of stimulus and organization. We must combat administrative waste wherever it exists, without hesitating to punish any abuses that may be uncovered. Lastly, we must have more supervision and greater transparency in peace-keeping operations. The Secretary-General still does not have all the means to exercise his responsibility to the full. France calls on the Member States to provide him with those means without delay. Strengthening the Department of Peace-keeping Operations, establishing a mechanism for a true general inspection, and setting up a court for budgetary discipline are, in our eyes, indispensable measures. 24 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session The third requirement for strengthening the Organization is a clean-up of its finances. Perhaps I should have begun with this point. According to an old French saying, money is 'the sinew of war'. It is also the sinew of peace. Our projects for this Organization will be no more than empty words unless we have the courage to adopt the new measures that its financial bankruptcy requires. First, Member States which do not pay their contributions within 30 days following the Secretary-General’s call for contributions should be penalized. France proposes that market-rate interest should be imposed on all late payments. This firm stance seems particularly necessary because the payment of accumulated arrears alone would suffice to resolve the financial crisis. It is also consistent with considerations of fairness and political morality. One cannot simultaneously speak of United Nations reform, justice and international development and exempt oneself from the primary financial obligation resulting from adherence to our Charter. It is high time to measure the generosity of words against the yardstick of arrears due our Organization. The establishment of a mechanism for a true general inspection will, as I have said, make it possible to rationalize the functioning and costs of the United Nations. France will support all initiatives to supplement the existing procedures of internal assessment, which have already shown their limitations despite the judicious reorganization recently introduced by the Secretary-General. Lastly, we must adopt an exemplary budget for the 1994-1995 period. We must not hesitate to reduce expenditures for obsolete activities. We will also have to provide sufficient funding for the new mandates entrusted to the Organization. If, from that, it is necessary to consider a reasonable increase in the ordinary budget, France, which has never espoused a dogmatic idea of zero growth, will readily accept this. These are concrete measures. They require a collective effort on the part of Member States. But France is convinced that we can no longer be satisfied, as in previous years, with marginal adjustments. The very ability of the United Nations to carry out its mandate is at stake. France, as you will have realized, is ambitious for the United Nations. With the support of renovated institutions and reorganized financing, the United Nations will be able to meet the great responsibilities incumbent on it: to preserve peace and collective security, to promote development and to address global problems whose international scale removes them from the individual action of States. Peace is of course the first of our responsibilities. The present instability in several parts of the world compels the United Nations to intervene more and more frequently in order to check the spread of conflicts and allow a negotiated solution to be sought. France, for its part, has wished to participate fully in this effort and is today in the front rank of States participating in peace-keeping operations. This commitment obviously does not confer any privilege on us. But our experience enables us to cast a lucid eye over the operations in which we have participated and encourages us to reaffirm certain principles and to propose certain common-sense measures that might help increase the future effectiveness of our action. First, greater political control is needed over operations that have become increasingly complex. Purely military considerations should never thwart - or even obscure - political ends. Naturally, regional or defence organizations may make useful contributions in terms of expertise, personnel or matériel. But the use of force presupposes that the guardian of the law - that is, the Security Council - exercises its authority in the name of the international community. This it cannot relinquish. That is why France insisted that the Secretary-General’s Special Representative to the former Yugoslavia should have authority over all operations under international mandate. It is important, it seems to me, that we should maintain this requirement at all times. By the same token, France insists that the political ends of the operation in Somalia should not be lost sight of. Next, we should systematically consider the question of the timetable of operations. As a matter of principle, time-frames should be explicitly assigned to each operation in the actual resolution that institutes it. It is also important to know when to terminate operations that go on and on, needlessly dipping into the means of the Organization and its Member States. France fully supports the Secretary-General’s efforts on this score. Lastly, we must expand the capacity of the Organization to react. The time that elapses between our decision to create a force and the implementation of that decision is far too long. How many weeks did we have to Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 25 wait before the air power authorized by resolution 836 (1993) on Bosnia was eventually deployed? And how many weeks for the ground reinforcements that had been announced to reach Sarajevo? We cannot but note that the current procedures do not meet the criteria for rapid reaction and flexible use which are called for in this area. France does not, however, believe that the Organization should have its own force. On the other hand, it has participated in discussions organized by the Secretariat-General on the concept of stand-by units. These discussions have resulted in original proposals for 'tailormade' forces for the United Nations. In this way, the Organization could have at its disposal support, transport and communications capabilities which it currently lacks for carrying out military actions speedily. France, which has already offered, in a statement made by the President of the French Republic, to make available to the Secretary-General a 1,000-strong contingent for peacekeeping operations at 48 hours’ notice, will take part in this effort. These measures will have another advantage. They will add an extra degree of effectiveness to preventive diplomacy, which has to be central to the ambitions we have for the Organization. This policy requires us to develop and put in place mechanisms for crisis alert, evaluation and prevention. Several ideas were put forward in the 'Agenda for Peace' - they included use of fact-finding missions and the effective deployment of United Nations forces - and have already been applied to certain difficult situations in Africa, Central Asia and the Balkans. In this spirit, the United Kingdom and France are ready to submit to the Secretary-General proposals for compiling a list of prominent individuals who could intervene promptly at his request, in liaison with appropriate regional organizations, and provide them with equipment - specifically in the communications field - necessary for carrying out their mission completely. It is through concrete initiatives of this sort, which may seem modest at first, that preventive diplomacy will gradually assume its rightful place in the maintenance of peace. The effort made in relation to disarmament in the past few years, finally, should continue. Considerable progress has already been made with the reduction of stockpiles from the cold-war era. But a new priority is becoming evident: the struggle against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. To attain this goal, we must be extremely vigilant in the threefold domain of nuclear weapons, chemical weapons and ballistic technologies. In this light, France welcomes the signing in Paris by nearly 150 States of the Convention banning chemical weapons, the first real multilateral disarmament pact of general scope, and calls on the States which have not yet ratified this Convention to do so. It supports the efforts being made by several groups of countries to institute systems of control of missile technology, nuclear exports and the sale of so-called sensitive products. France asks, finally, that the non-proliferation regimes be strengthened. It reaffirms in particular its desire to see the Non-Proliferation Treaty prolonged indefinitely and unconditionally. It continues to believe that it is only the Security Council that can decide on sanctions against irresponsible behaviour. This would be the case if North Korea were to fail to respect its commitments to the International Atomic Energy Agency. What guarantees can be given for collective security and peace if nothing is done to try to resolve the economic and social disparities that are so often the source of conflict? We know that there can be no lasting peace without lasting economic development. That is why the 'Agenda for Peace' unquestionably requires also an 'agenda for development'. France, as is known, has consistently spoken for the interests of the developing countries, particularly the least developed, in discussion with its industrialized partners. It has tirelessly pleaded - sometimes as a voice crying in the wilderness - for a substantial increase in the level of official development assistance in order to permit these countries to enjoy trade advantages without reciprocity, to ease their debt burden and stabilize raw-material prices. Our resolve in this matter will not weaken: how can we accept, for example, a situation in which every year the African countries pay the World Bank more than they receive from it? Nor can we accept the persistence, and sometimes the worsening, of the most glaring situations of distress. France has not forgotten the depth of the crisis in sub-Saharan Africa, with which it has so many ties. It believes it is 26 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session essential that the basic achievements of cooperation between the European Community and the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries, should be maintained, especially with regard to trade. Lastly, our third ambition for the United Nations concerns the vast issue of societal questions, linked naturally to the requirements of development but distinct from it. The protection of human rights, the preservation of the environment, aid to refugees, the struggle against full-scale epidemics, organized crime and drug trafficking all have a worldwide dimension. The Organization must address these problems with the same energy it expends in the search for peace and the promotion of development. Several important dates lie ahead of us. Let us apply without delay the recommendations unanimously adopted at the Vienna Conference on Human Rights, particularly the creation of a post of high commissioner for human rights. Let us prepare for the conferences in Cairo and Beijing and the social development summit in Copenhagen with all the necessary determination, so as to reinforce the cooperation required in addressing demographic problems, the promotion of women’s rights and the demands for social development. Great epidemics have always been a threat to the world’s nations. But the need for full-scale international mobilization is becoming particularly acute in the case of AIDS in view of the havoc of all kinds caused by the spread of this malady. I earnestly hope that, as we approach the second decade of this struggle, the coherence of United Nations action, and that of its specialized agencies and of all States and interested organizations, will be equal to this new challenge. In this context, France proposes the convening of a conference next year to bring together the main contributor countries in the war against this scourge in order to improve coordination of their efforts and give them a new impetus. In most cases, these phenomena are not new. However, the challenge they pose to our societies, in the North and in the South, is of unprecedented seriousness. They affect underdevelopment as much as they do the excesses of the consumer society, and our traditional responses are proving to be inadequate or ineffective. We need new ideas in this area. The Secretary-General should have broad power to take initiatives and make proposals in this matter. France therefore suggests the formation of a group of prominent figures chosen for their intellectual and scientific abilities and moral influence to assist him in this vital task at the end of our century. Forty-eighth session - 29 September l993 27 Setting forth such ambitions for the United Nations might have made the sceptics smile a few years ago. With the end of the cold war the international community has a historic opportunity: no longer to dismiss problems but perhaps to solve them; no longer to limit conflicts but perhaps to settle them. Let us remain clear-sighted. This period could be merely a brief interlude. If we were to hesitate, would it be long before peoples succumbed to their basest inclinations, cast off the rules of international law or put themselves - in the best of cases - under the sole protection of regional, competing and potentially hostile solidarities? We do not have unlimited time. It is therefore our duty to undertake without delay the reforms required to strengthen our Organization and to realize its new objectives. I should like to assure the Assembly that in the pursuit of these twin goals, the United Nations can count on France’s firm resolve. 